ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.08 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u4	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 16 December 2021 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in today's speech, I intend to address the issues that the European Council will address this week: pandemics; energy prices; shared crisis management; common defence; migration and relations with foreign countries (in particular Belarus and Ukraine). I will also talk about the issues under discussion at Eurosummit: economic recovery, banking union, the union of capital markets. The arrival of winter and the spread of the Omicron variant, from the first surveys much more contagious than the ones so far prevailing, require us to pay the utmost attention in the management of the pandemic. Infections are increasing across Europe: in the last week, an average of fifty-seven cases per day have occurred in the European Union every 100,000 inhabitants. In Italy the incidence is lower (almost half), but it is still growing. The government decided to renew the state of emergency until March 31 to have all the necessary tools to deal with the situation. I call on the public to maintain maximum caution and to continue to respect the rules we have laid down. Today's data describe a very different picture than last year: the total number of people currently positive to the virus in Italy is 297,000; twelve months ago it was 675,000, despite a much higher level of restrictions. The number of persons admitted is 8.026; on December 14, 2020 there were 30,860. In the last seven days there have been an average of 95 deaths a day; in the same period as a year ago they had been 629. We must be careful, but we approach Christmas more prepared and safer. This improvement is mainly due to the vaccination campaign: over a year in Italy we have vaccinated almost 46 million people with two doses and over 300 million people throughout the European Union. It is a massive mobilization, for which I would like to thank the National Health Service, the structure of the Commissioner for Emergency, Civil Protection and indeed all citizens. [[Applause.]] Today in Italy more than 85 percent of the population over the age of twelve received two doses and over 23 percent also did the third. I want to encourage, once again, those who have not been vaccinated to do so as soon as possible. [[Applause]] and who took the first two doses to do the third as soon as possible. As a recent study by the Higher Institute of Health shows, non-vacciners are at risk of dying 11 times higher than those who received the second dose and almost 17 times higher than those who took the third dose. Vaccinating is essential to protect ourselves, our loved ones, our community, and it is essential to continue to keep the economy, schools, places of sociality open, as we have managed to do so far. The emergence of the Omicron variant demonstrates, once again, the importance of curbing contagion in the world in order to limit the risk of dangerous mutations. We're not really gonna be protected until the vaccines reach everyone. The governments of the richest countries and pharmaceutical companies have made significant commitments for the distribution of free or low-cost vaccines to the poorest countries. We must follow up these promises with greater determination. The European Union has stated that it wants to donate 357 million doses and has already delivered 134 doses, mainly through the Covax mechanism. Italy allocated 48,250 million doses and delivered already 15 million, always through the Covax. We need to speed up deliveries and we need to help the beneficiary countries overcome logistical problems and improve their delivery capacity. That is the most pressing need. The increase in energy costs is mainly linked to cyclical causes, such as global economic recovery and supply bottlenecks. These transitional factors should be at least partially exceeded during 2022, with normal consumption and bottlenecks being exceeded. However, increases also reflect a structural problem of energy transition. The expansion of renewables is still incomplete, also due to the hesitations of governments in many countries. At the same time, we use less fossil fuels, such as coal, to achieve the global target of reducing emissions. The result is a dependence on transitional fuels, such as gas, with risks of rising prices. The Government has undertaken to define a clear trajectory of decarbonisation, with rapid but realistic times and measurable objectives. We are committed to defining a path of reduction of emissions at European level which takes into account the capacity to convert our productive fabric. In order to rapidly increase production from renewable sources, we have allocated substantial funds and simplified administrative procedures. In the immediate future, our priority is to limit the volatility of energy prices which is likely to have a significant impact on the budgets of households and businesses. In particular, we want to protect the weakest sections of the population who are most affected by these increases. From June to today the Government has allocated more than 4 billion euros to contain the increase of the rates; 1.2 billion in June, more than 3 billion in September. For next year we have planned to spend another 3.8 billion and we are ready to add other resources if price developments do not stabilize. For the first quarter of next year we cancel the general system charges for household electrical utilities, for small businesses, for micro-enterprises. We reduce the VAT rate to 5%, from 10% and 22% today, and we reduce the general system charges for gas. Also in the first quarter, for the poorest citizens and those in serious health, we allocate almost a billion to strengthen the facilities on telephone bills. [[Applause]] Italy is committed to finding a structural solution to the problem of energy prices at European level. I am thinking, for example, of the proposal to create integrated storage of strategic gas stocks; an initiative in this respect would improve the capacity of all European countries to cope with sudden price rises such as the current one. At the moment there is no agreement on how to proceed, but the Council should continue to deal with this at its next meetings. We hope that the third gas package, presented by the European Commission on Tuesday 14 December, will be implemented quickly. The package includes the joint voluntary purchase of strategic storage by energy transmission operators, a measure that would be useful to cope with future increases. This week will be the Eurosummit in which we will discuss the state of economic recovery. The European Commission expects Italy to grow by 6.2 percent this year, a rate higher than that of the European Union, which is 5%. [[Applause]] However, elements of uncertainty remain, such as the spread of the Omicron variant and inflationary pressures also linked to rising energy prices. In the face of these risks it is right to confirm an expansive fiscal policy for 2022 that consolidates the growth path and points above all on investments. At Eurosummit we will also discuss the completion of the banking union, which is necessary to strengthen the financial stability of monetary union. Italy works to support the two existing pillars, the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism, a European deposit insurance system. The President of the Eurogroup will provide details on the state of the ongoing negotiations in which Italy participates and has always participated in a constructive spirit. Finally, in the Eurosummit, we will discuss the construction of the union of capital markets, a project relaunched thanks to the European Commission's new action plan, presented in September 2020. The Commission's action is being implemented through initiatives such as the revision of the Solvency 2 Directive on the insurance sector and the Regulation on European long-term investment funds. The aim is to integrate national capital markets into a real single market to increase investment opportunities for citizens and finance for businesses. At the General Affairs Council of the Ministers for European Affairs on 23 November, conclusions were adopted to put the lessons learned during the pandemic into order - these are the words used. The December European Council will invite the General Affairs Council to continue with this work. In order to be more prepared for future crises, we want to improve our response capacities and to better protect the functioning of the single market. In the first phase of the emergency, many Member States have sought individual solutions to a common problem, you will remember that. I am thinking, for example, of the race for the supply of protective equipment, the episodes of health protectionism. In the following months, however, we have shown that we are able to cooperate, for example through the centralization of vaccine purchases. In response to the economic crisis, European coordination was also crucial, for example with the creation of the Next Generation EU programme. Next week there will be a steering booth to approve the progress report on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The document will illustrate the state of implementation of the Plan, the reforms undertaken, the investments undertaken, the bodies responsible for monitoring and evaluating the measures. The government will also take stock of the 51 goals to be achieved by the end of the year, which we are sure to achieve within the scheduled time. At the European Council we will also give an initial opinion on the draft strategic compass presented in November by the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mr Borrell. The compass can bring us closer to genuine European defence and promote the construction of a common strategic culture. We want to improve crisis management capabilities related to hybrid, cybernetic and misinformation threats, to better protect geostrategic spaces, which are disputed, from seas to space, and to improve capacity to respond to the consequences of climate change, natural disasters and emergencies. In addition, we will need to better plan investments to develop our defence capabilities, including emerging technologies and do so in a coordinated way, through cooperation and support between partners. The negotiations will continue even after the European Council. We intend to adopt the strategic compass in March 2022; this will serve as a stimulus to strengthen European foreign policy. First of all, effective decision-making mechanisms are needed in the area of foreign policy, security and defence, starting with the overcoming of the principle of unanimity which all too often slows European action. [[Applause]] The same applies to the decision-making mechanisms for military use. The European ready deployment capacity of some 5,000 units proposed in the draft compass requires a clear structure and well-defined tasks. This is a first step, but an important first step which will have to be followed, in the future, by much greater mobilisation and accompanied by adequate financial resources. Threat and intelligence analysis processes by Member States' agencies must also follow more structured and more rigorous processes. We must also take into account the security challenges that come from the enlarged Mediterranean. The interoperability of European military instruments with NATO must also be ensured. A stronger, better coordinated and more independent European Union from the point of view of foreign policy is an advantage for the Atlantic Alliance and for the whole world. The European Council will send a signal of commitment to strengthen the strategic partnership with NATO: it is crucial for our security, including in the face of new threats, such as cybernetic ones. The third joint declaration on cooperation between the European Union and NATO, which we call for to be negotiated and signed quickly, must take account of these challenges. The European Council of tomorrow will also discuss migration. Italy once again puts this issue with absolute determination, also following the high number of arrivals that have been there in recent months. Since July the monthly landings have never fallen below the 6,900 quota and reached a peak of over 10,000 in August. On December 14, the people landed in Italy this year were 63,062, in 2019 were 11.097 and in 2020 were 32,919 [[Applause. Comments]] At the same time, with the introduction of pandemic restrictions, the already sporadic redistributions between European countries of migrants landed in Italy have ceased. Italy will continue to call for shared, supportive, human and safe management. The European Union must be up to its own values, as Pope Francis recently urged it to do. [[Applause]] In order to defend the lives and rights of those who leave to escape, it is essential to promote humanitarian corridors from third countries, towards the Member States of the European Union. It is not enough for Italy alone to implement them: a clear European commitment is needed. We need to strengthen the legal channels of immigration, because they represent a resource, not a threat to our society. [[Applause]] At the same time, a shared, rapid and effective management of returns is needed. The European Commission and the European External Action Service must provide adequate funds for the Central Mediterranean route and the European Union must do more to negotiate and implement European readmission agreements and intensify assisted voluntary returns. On the foreign policy front, we expect the European Council to speak unequivocally against the exploitation of migrants by the Belarusian regime. [[Applause]] The deliberate use of migrants for political purposes is unacceptable. [[Applause]] As I told the Polish Prime Minister during his recent visit to Rome, the European response was not lacking, it was targeted and concrete. We have imposed new restrictions on the Minsk authorities and approved new measures to support the countries of arrival of migrants: Lithuania, Latvia and Poland. These migrants must also be treated in a human way, in their passage. [[Applause]] In these weeks we have witnessed the growing tensions between Russia and Ukraine. The European Council must urgently ask Russia to work towards reducing them. We must unanimously renew our support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as I had the opportunity to express to Ukrainian President Zelensky in yesterday's conversation. In recent weeks there have been consultations by the President of the United States, Biden, within the framework of NATO, with Italy and with other European countries, to formulate a response. This response must start from the shared view that diplomacy remains the only way to resolve the conflict in the Donbass. [[Applause. Comments]] A peaceful solution cannot be without the implementation of the 2015 Minsk Agreements. Finally, the European Council will be an opportunity to discuss the summit with the African Union in February. We need to strengthen relations with African countries in the multilateral sphere and with responsible and equal partnerships. Among the priority themes are investments to address the ecological transition and the anti-Covid vaccination campaign, which in Africa proceeds with many difficulties. The Government hopes that the Commission and the Member States will approve a package of measures for Africa, including access to the on-site production of vaccines. In conclusion, I want to thank you for your contribution and support. These comparisons strengthen the government's action in Europe and further legitimise it in the face of our citizens. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u6	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u7	Madam President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, your speech, Mr President, allows us to enter very seriously into the discussions of the next few days in Brussels, but this morning you, speaking to the House, wanted - probably as a very appreciated act of respect for the tragedy that has affected not only the territory of Agrigento, but the whole country - to remember the names of the victims. We are grateful for this gesture, for allowing Parliament to join the memory of the victims, as you did, we join in thanking the rescuers. In my brief communication, Mr President, I would like to start with the words of one of the victims. I say this because the Minister of Education and the Minister of the University are at your side. One of the victims was a professor: he was sixty-eight years old and his name was Pietro Carmina. In saying goodbye to his boys, retiring, he had used words that I find extraordinarily touching and that made me think a lot (as I believe everyone in this House). He had a way of saying to his boys: Use the words that I have taught you to defend you and to defend those words that did not have them; do not be spectators, but protagonists of the history that you live today; stick in, get dirty hands, bite life, do not "adapt", commit, never renounce to pursue your goals, even the most ambitious, load on your shoulders those who do not make it: you are not the future, you are the present. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it would be very nice if the Government could recall this servant of the State, professor of our school system, with these words, which are an extraordinary teaching to young women and men, to our younger citizens and citizens. [[Applause]] Coming to political issues, the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly mentioned two areas of which we are proud. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, were not with us in this House a year ago, but at the time we were asking for a turning point in two areas: the first was that of vaccines (the campaign was starting, then we were talking about primroses and they were getting weird, telling where the vaccine truck was, around the Brenner towards Rome); the other was the economy, where we were the worst in Europe. Then we asked the government for a turning point, which was: the turning point is the new Government. On vaccines we are among the first in the world: also for this reason I believe that the Minister of Health should be asked to manage with great attention the external communication, because what the Government has done is the work of the best in the world. In this 2021 we won several titles and on vaccines we were at least European champions, if not in the race for the world championship. On the economy you objectively mentioned not only the difference, a positive spread in this case, between the average European growth of 5% and that of the 6.2 that we will achieve at least. There is, however, an even bigger spread between today's result and what we expected exactly a year ago, when growth expectations were 4%, so we did much better than we thought we would do. It was not the Government alone or Parliament alone, but the entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, the workers and the workers: we thank them all for having fought in an extraordinary way at a time of difficulty. [[Applause]] However, the Government can legitimately claim these two results. Therefore, since December is budget time, let's say it all: on vaccines and economy we can turn back and say that we have done a good job; good, congratulations, let's move on. But now the positive part is already our past. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I very much appreciate your speech. For obvious reasons of time, I would just like to mention some of the political issues that this Government and this Parliament, or those who come after us, will have to address in 2022. The first point is that we are not going anywhere unless we finally put our hand to the Stability Pact. No one in this House knows better than the President-in-Office of the Council about the difficulty of this issue, but there is the problem that at some point the issue of the Stability Pact gets right to our faces. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the agreement with the French, in the Quirinale Treaty, which I think is very important, a historic step forward, have certainly also begun a valuable discussion with President Macron and we hope to do the same with the new German Chancellor Scholz. Let's face it all: on the subject of the Stability Pact, 2022 is the year of truth, in a dynamic in which we will have some more difficulties. Let's not fool ourselves: inflation - just look at the United States - is at levels we haven't known since Ronald Reagan. It doesn't matter being an economics student to know it was another world. We have the problem of increasing the bills: I say this because, in a political debate even between the forces of the majority, it was believed that a small intervention of 248 million was enough on a certain population group to solve the problem. The answer - and I say this also to some of the trade unions who strike for this - is in the news that the President of the Council has given us today - actually, he gave it a few days ago - namely that, at least, there are 3.8 billion euros more, not 248 million, to try to save the dear bills. However, it will not be enough, because there is an energy problem that partly comes from renewable energies - and also from their lack of permits - because the culture of not in my backyard (NIMBY) is also very strong at local level, but partly comes from geopolitical issues, some of which have been mentioned by the President of the Council in his reflection and will constitute the agenda of the debate in Brussels. There is therefore a great theme and it is not that we can lull on our laurels. The economic situation has seen extraordinary progress, and perhaps we should all make an effort to say that, beyond those 248 million, over the last five years on tax evasion, we have passed - I quote yesterday's MEF figures - from 98 billion to 86 billion. This is to say that you have made a recovery of 12 billion, which is an extraordinary thing, but at the same time to say that there are still 86 that are the real cake to attack. Second point (I say this with the utmost respect): from the subject of NATO and the European Union, on which the President spent important words a few moments ago, we do not run away. I also remember the smiles in this House when Emmanuel Macron said that NATO was in a state of brain death. I add that for me it is not brain, but pure death, and we can only try to raise it. I hope that the Government and Parliament, as they will be, will fight for an Italian NATO Secretary-General in 2022, because I think it is important to bring the values that the President mentioned today in the European debate (I mean an Italian who loves Brussels, we understand). It would be fascinating to resume the debate on NATO and the European Union, but we do not have the time. The third and final point I would like to highlight is the issue of immigration. 2021 was the year in which, plastically, two second-generation immigrants (in one case, not even second-generation immigrants) in Germany, coming from a country outside Europe, Turkey, were able to save the world with the vaccine: the two Turkish immigrants who arrived in Germany allowed to arrive at the Pfizer mRNA vaccine. So the issue of immigration must finally be addressed not only as an emergency, but also as an opportunity, as you said, Mr President, and we are with you. I know, Mr President, that these matters would take a long time and depth, but thank you for what you are doing. Parliament rightly seems to me to be concerned about what will happen in the coming weeks, it is natural and physiological. I believe that one can look positively and say that the appeal made by the leader of Brothers of Italy to elect a patriot at the Quirinale is a good idea. We patriots don't summon them, we vote them. Patriot was Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, patriot was Giorgio Napolitano and patriot was Sergio Mattarella, to whom go our respectful greeting and a great thank you for the work done in these years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u8	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u9	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to make a general reflection on the relationship between Italy and Europe in this year that is about to close, 2021. In my opinion, there were three equally important dimensions and all three clearly in the positive direction. Firstly, Italy's position in Europe has been strengthened. Secondly, Italy's position in the world has been strengthened, thanks to the Italian Presidency of the G20. Thirdly, Europe's position in Italy and the perception of Italians has been strengthened. In particular, the successes of Italy are obviously due to the personal prestige and the recognized authority of President Draghi, to the quality of the Government and to the increasing attention - it seems to me - that Parliament and public opinion lend to these issues, experienced more and more as major internal factors of evolution of society, economy and Italian politics. It was therefore a matter of great merits of the Government - and, in the alternative, of Parliament - and also of ripening the fruits of previous works, as in the case of the Treaty between Italy and France. I find it very significant that this treaty, which strengthens the cohesion between our two countries, comes at a time when not in an antagonistic key, but in a key - I find - perfectly complementary, the coalition contract of the new German Government has come out, which has many values in common with the Treaty of Quirinale. I do not wish to be too optimistic, Mr President, but in my opinion this is leading to a psychological and political effect in Italy and in Parliament's classrooms, and we are getting to talk more loosely and with a smaller dose of mutual mental reserve, even of extremely sensitive issues such as sovereignty and patriotism. It is now clear to everyone that there is also a European homeland alongside that - for us - Italian and only the European way exists in certain fields, in others not, in order to achieve effective sovereignty for Italy and for other countries. I very much hope to all of us that the great challenges for 2022 - Senator Renzi has listed some very large ones - can be tackled with as much debate as necessary, but in the spirit that, in my opinion, is being formed and of which, of course, the active and vigorous presence of President Draghi is an important ingredient. I conclude by saying that next year will be important, delicate and perhaps a little more controversial than 2021, because there will be constructions in new and historically late yards for Europe - President Draghi recalled foreign security and defence policy - as well as yards for the reconstruction of governance tools, particularly economic, which, as we know, have been suspended, but have also shown the need for a fairly radical update. I hope that on Parliament's side too, Mr President-in-Office, we can work together, perhaps even more so than the Heads of Government at the stage preceding the signing of the Italian-France Treaty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u10	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission said on 13 October 2021 that the best insurance against price increases is the transition to so-called clean energy, thus energy efficiency and renewable energy. The increase in energy prices affects everyone, even if it affects mainly people in energy poverty and families with low and medium-low incomes. In 2019, some 31 million people were unable to properly heat their homes and it is therefore clear that immediate measures are needed to support the most vulnerable groups, as you have said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Unfortunately, natural gas still plays an important role in the energy mix of the European Union and also in our country and the results of COP26 are not encouraging as regards the abandonment of fossil sources. In 2021 the effects of the pandemic affected international energy scenarios, but the good news is that demand for energy from fossil sources has seen a shy positive trend. Another good news concerns the lower dependence of our country on foreign sources of supply, with an increase, however, once again, of the production of renewable energy, which represents about 70 percent of the total of Italian production. Speeding up the process of transition to renewable energy also means taking practical and rapid action to eliminate environmentally harmful subsidies. It must be made clear to citizens that the state's disbursement of public money to finance energy from fossil sources still means destroying the environment, health and the economy, therefore our future. As for the development of marine renewable energies, I remember the very serious delay (of nine months) in the planning of the marine space and therefore in favor of the plan for the reopening of the drills, both at sea and on land, for the extraction of the gas, that in fact becomes preeminent regarding the development of the circular economy of the sea, that it must be sustainable and integrated regarding all the policies relating to tourism, the fishing, the transport, the transmission of the data and the energy (an energy that must be renewable and for us free, because coming from the sun, the sea and the wind, of which Italy is rich). I would ask you to pay attention to the energy mix, which Parliament has not yet heard of, because we still do not have the update of the National Energy and Climate Plan. We cannot therefore do an act of faith, but we need to understand and carry forward, according to what the Constitution requires of us, an action of control of what the Government does. So, what I can say... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u12	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, members of the Government, someone yesterday, during an important moment in parliamentary life, speaking and reasoning about the current energy-related moment, gave a definition that I greatly appreciated: from here to the ambitious objective of climate neutrality, we must live. It seems to me that this is a beautiful manifesto on which to reason. Add to this the statement of the executive vice president for the European green deal, Timmermans, for which the responsibility of the dear energy is linked only for a fifth to the process of decarbonization. President Draghi, you know better than I that the price of energy in Italy is the highest in Europe. Compared to Spain and Portugal, the cost in Italy is 48 euros higher, 17 euros higher than in Germany and 9 euros higher than in France. Two of the main reasons are the low value of the energy mix in Italy and, above all, the great dependence on imports, despite the increased use of renewables, which fails to fill the gap. The energy crisis, President Draghi, is hitting the costs of supplying natural gas and electricity and has a horizon of difficult forecast. Indeed, according to many analysts, there could be a further shock in price developments, due to exogenous factors to normal market dynamics and currently unpredictable. In order to be able to contain with promptness any sudden increases in the cost of the energy component, it is necessary, in my opinion and in our opinion, to extend the allocation of the margin of manoeuvre of the Regulatory Authority for energy, networks and the environment at least for the first half of 2022, if not later. Mr President, you referred in your speech to the fact that, from June to today, your Government has already allocated more than 4 billion and is preparing to add additional resources to achieve the objective, not least the cancellation of the system charges for domestic electricity, small businesses and micro-enterprises. I say to you that it is very good, but at the same time, because of this, I ask you for important, if not very important, measures that can secure our economy and mitigate as much as possible the difficulties of families and businesses, particularly small and medium-sized ones, which historically represent one of the cornerstones of our economy. He then went on to say that Italy is committed to finding a structural solution to the energy price problem at European level. All right, I'm really glad. Its authority in Europe has already been recalled several times, so I am very confident in that. I therefore ask you to make a strong commitment to ensure that the sustainable finance package considers the strategic accompanying role of natural gas in the ecological and energy transition, both in reducing energy costs and in ensuring stability, security and resilience of the energy system. In this respect, it is absolutely necessary to review the exclusion from projects of Community interest, under the TEN-E Regulation, of the doubling of the TAP, an infrastructure which is essential for the strengthening of the gas transport capacity in Italy, for the diversification of supplies and to reduce the costs of gas supply. When we talk about doubling, we obviously do so not from an environmental point of view, as an impact, but the power of emissions and the amount of gas to be received. Not least, it is necessary to establish an urgent and effective regulation laying down common rules for the management of security of gas supply. The regulation of storage and its usage profiles - and this you and your Minister know perfectly well - I imagine that is, for you and for us, the essential condition for our energy security. President Draghi, I would also like to ask you to support the increase in the extraction capacity of deposits in Italy, partly because we do not understand why we are the only ones not to use our total possibility, perhaps then by purchasing electricity from France, for 15%, derived exclusively from nuclear power, on which a debate is finally opening. I also wonder whether we are sure that it is a good idea to argue with Russia, especially in view of the fact that Moscow is the main European gas supplier and is honouring all supply contracts. Mr President, it is illogical to want to strike those who are complying with the agreements. I would also like to point out that the proposal for a common European purchase of methane is full of operational unknowns and, in any case, presupposes a decisive role for Moscow. Rather, it would be necessary to move quickly to remove the panking and gas tariff mechanism. The achievement of a single European market is exposed to the risk of opportunistic behaviour of individual Member States. It wouldn't be the first time that's happened, and it probably wouldn't be the last. The competitiveness of gas is often conditioned by the decisions of foreign authorities, which can act in a discriminatory way to favor their consumers, to the detriment of other countries. I think that's something that can happen if it hasn't already happened. Mr President, I am referring in particular to transport charges, which today penalise the competitiveness of Italian gas. It remains therefore necessary to remove these distortions. It is essential because it is at the expense of our companies, both small and large. I appreciate the perplexity that the government put on the stop to the combustion cars in 2035. It is clear that there may not be an ecological improvement either, but we will certainly lose 70,000 jobs. Mr President, as I said at the beginning, from here to achieving climate neutrality the motto can only be this: we must live. You will certainly be able to translate it wisely into the right language so that Europe can fully understand it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u14	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr Draghi, if I may say that the interests of the Italians who have not voted on it are of interest to you, but they are from you, despite being represented in the European Council, to bring you some voices from the Indian reserve in which you have confined part of the society to which you have prudently and with every godly reason not considered to make the choices you advocated and recommended regarding mass vaccinations, in the absence of sufficient clinical studies in the short, medium and long term. In the meantime, I would like to ask you to take into account the legal and factual validity of the extension of an emergency state beyond the limits set by the Constitution. The state of emergency would lay its foundations on the containment of the outbreak from Covid-19, which has a mortality rate of 0.2 percent, in the presence of also a 10% of the places in intensive care occupied. The state of emergency is based on military intervention, but to do what? The war on a microbe or honest unarmed citizens, guilty only of understanding your deceptions and stealing yourself? First of all, before we speak at the European Council of economic measures, since the nations are not companies - not even the one you represent - we demand that you confirm the right to inviolability of people, a human right recognised by all the international conventions signed also by Italy, today unknown in the very heart of civil Europe and here in Italy, in particular, thanks to the measures you carry out. We expect you to demand that all conflicts of interest in the European Commission and the licensing bodies of medicines be removed. We expect him to take account of the commitments he has made at international level, for which he has also extended - the only case in Europe - the vaccination obligation in the workplace, with unconstitutional sanctions, which deprive the sanctioned of subsistence, not respecting the principle of habeas corpus, in the presence of drugs that - he cannot ignore - are reaping thousands of victims. EudraVigilance records about 30,000 deaths in the 27 countries of the European Union in conjunction with the administration of these drugs and 3 million adverse events. For the Italian Constitution, but also for the Charter of Nice, for the Nuremberg Code and the Oviedo Convention no one can be obliged to a health treatment that can lead him to disability and death, was also the most socially useful drug ever realized, and you know very well that these drugs do not even perform the function of limiting the infection, because even with the third doses you get infected. We are therefore talking only about big business for manufacturers, but perhaps it was these commitments that he referred to in the preamble to Decree-Law No 172 of 2021; perhaps this is what the compression of rights contained in the first articles of the Constitution is due to: to vulgar trade agreements. Is this due to the war that he declared to the Italian people, destroying their social and productive fabric? But who do you really represent here and in the European Council? The proportion between the violence and the abuse with which these drugs are imposed and their effectiveness is in the eyes of all, even the blindest, darkened by the propaganda paid with public money. But do not exchange the resignation of some with the favor for these libertic and exitial measures for the Italian people. How much longer, with the empty portfolio, will the Italians continue to believe the lies of the news, which announce magnificent and progressive fates, that no one sees on the horizon, at least of us ordinary mortals? [[Call the president back.]] We demand that you do not make agreements for any social and economic project that concerns our country that goes beyond the limits imposed by the Italian Constitution, on which you swore. We demand that doctors be removed from the criminal shield, because the healthy citizen, transformed against his free determination as a patient, treated in series, cannot take responsibility for a treatment on which there is not enough scientific information to assess its effectiveness and risks (risks that the pharmaceutical companies do not assume and of which a State imposing obligations cannot fail to take full responsibility). We expect you to report in the European Council that, with a virus that has a 0.2% lethality... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u16	Thank you, Senator. You may deliver the text of your observations to be annexed to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u17	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just two months ago we were in this House dealing with the problem of high energy. The debate clearly revealed two elements: the first is that the increase would have persisted for many months, with very worrying economic consequences, both on the inflation side and the danger of a slowdown, if not even an interruption, of the recovery; the second is that the intrinsic, structural causes of this increase derive from the structure of the European energy system, which is heavily dependent on the import of gas. Although the European Union has a diversified import infrastructure system, it cannot escape global dynamics, it does not dominate the dynamics of price increases. On that occasion, I pointed out that this strong increase concerned all the states, even the most nuclearist ones, however linked to the same rules of price formation on the international markets, so much so as to make clearly uneconomic any hypothesis of reopening to nuclear (and on nuclear I will return to sketches in the next few minutes). After a few months, we can say that the picture has not changed, indeed, it has even deteriorated: the productive activities and the families are in great difficulty and we have little time. Among the things that we shared in the debate last year, there is the common and cross-cutting view, also indicated in Commission Communication 660/2021 to the European Parliament, the European Council, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, according to which The transition to clean energy is the best insurance against price crises such as the one the EU is facing today. It's time to hit the accelerator. Clean energy obviously means renewable sources, which are faster, cheaper and more controllable. We therefore welcome the positions taken in Europe, in the Energy Council, with the non-paper, in which we called for the electric market design to be adapted to the central role of renewable energy sources in 2030. Similarly, we welcome the decision taken in the Council of Ministers, which has unlocked numerous licensing procedures for renewable energy plants, which we have been waiting for for years. An important signal is also the choice made on the stop to the production of endothermic cars by 2035, which will give a strong push towards electrification and a great stimulus to the conversion of the productive sector, which politics must accompany, of course. Of course, important are the interventions adopted by the Government in these days, which will be included in the maneuver, in order to calm the price increases (therefore necessary and useful interventions, but not decisive). In fact, the increase in the costs of the bill must be taken out of the chest before the production system goes into short circuit. We all agree on this; what we do not agree on is the solutions that need to be identified in order to deal with these increases structurally and calm them down. Beyond nuclear hypotheses, which are still to be demonstrated in practice (both fusion and fourth generation fission, since the third is being built, and therefore we are in the field of theories), we believe that instead we must equip ourselves with a toolbox that contains solutions of immediate availability: people want savings now, not in fifteen years' time. [[Applause]] We therefore need solutions that are not theoretical, but already identified - some of which you also pointed out, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - which we must implement immediately. These are, as always, the increase in the production of renewables and of energy saving and efficiency interventions and the accumulations and the realization of a real competition in the market of electrical services, unfortunately stranded in the delays of production of the rules. There are many operators who have long been waiting for regulatory measures that do not arrive. I am talking about extremely concrete things: for example, the regulation on accumulations - which we all know is the final point - we have been waiting for years and we cannot complete it. It is yesterday the news that confirms the shift and the consequent delay of one year of the new rules on transmission, distribution and dispatching in the case of electric energy taken, functional to allow the subsequent placing on the net, that is that relative to the accumulations, and the services of generation. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what I want to say to you in non-political language is that it is not a problem of technology but of standards that we cannot produce. Here we make many good speeches and we also make good laws, but then there are the classic pebbles that block the gears: that's what the Government needs to be more careful about. I've been working with ministries and regulatory bodies for eight years, and these pebbles continue to exist. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the continuing increases have led many market analysts to charge part of the causes of these rises to completely different aspects from the known ones. We are talking about financial speculation, and I know that you are an extremely competent person. I am sure that your Government will carry out all the necessary checks to take the necessary action if necessary. You said that the government is committed to defining a clear decarbonisation trajectory and a path of reduction of emissions at European level that takes into account the capacity to convert our productive fabric, rapidly increasing production from renewable sources. It also stated that the appropriations for curbing increases cannot go on indefinitely, but we need to find structural solutions and reflect on the energy price mechanism. This is what you have already tried to speculate in Europe in order to change the energy price mechanism: this must be done. I also welcome the attempt to finally create an energy community, so the joint storage, even if on a voluntary basis: this seems to me a decisive step forward and it is time for the European Union to make the European Union; on this we are perfectly aligned. Against expensive energy therefore there is not a single solution, but a plurality of solutions. We have a toolbox ready, we need to speed up on this and move from the will to do it. If this really is the way your government wants to beat, you will have full support for us. One last step, Mr President, I do so on the European green taxonomy. In this regard, we reiterate as Movimento 5 Stelle what we have already expressed several times - also formally we filed a motion at the beginning of August signed by our entire Parliamentary Group - namely the need for its Government to take any appropriate initiative in the European institutions to exclude nuclear energy and gas activities. [[Applause]] from what can be called sustainable. Conversely, it would mean that we encourage instruments that are even harmful, because they would take away both private finance and public money from really virtuous investments and the climate goals that we have set ourselves and that naturally serve to make humankind survive, while they would still bring money on technologies that have proven not to be the solution. Rather, we need to think about innovative rules that open up to the future. This does not mean giving space to what we already know today is not the right choice to make or even to technologies that would create further problems that we should then face. We have considerable resources for the ecological transition from Europe; do not direct them towards... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u19	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u20	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, by culture and character I am not a catastrophist; on the contrary, I am always fooled because I am a person who always tends to see the glass half full, also to find the strength to recover what is missing and make it truly full. I have also had this attitude towards Europe, but I must confess to you, Mr Draghi, that lately I have experienced - as I believe many - a feeling of shame. You see, I have heard a lot about the fact that the Commission was stealing Christmas from us and I do not know what other nonsense, with unbearable rhetoric, and precisely from those who are turning to the other side today, we accept that even within the borders of the Union we are talking about keeping out, rejecting. Well, I cannot understand: how is it possible for a continent of 500 million people to close out 6,000, 7,000, 8,000 desperate on the Belarus-Poland border, and indeed drown them with the hydrants, who send the army? We are talking about poor people who are in the cold, with children dying of cold, have no food, no blankets, no clothing, nothing at all, and it will be Christmas for them too. [[Applause.]] Excuse me, is it ever possible? Is it ever possible? If we could look from above with a drone we would see a continent with all its problems, now full of walls: think of the 150 kilometers of the Hungarian wall, for example, the barrier of Ceuta and Melilla in Spain or the Passo di Calais or Ventimiglia. So, I think, as we move forward from an economic point of view - for which I am happy and thank you very much - we are losing the values that we continue to flag, but which we are treading in practice. In short, it is as if pity is dying in Europe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, even that. [[Applause.]] This is not the Europe we want! Please, President, I know you will. I am closing, Mr President, please do not take the floor. We are not talking about the Mediterranean, which has seen 1,500 deaths since the beginning of the year, and the saved people are being brought back to the Libyan lagers. I am told that Libya is not on the Council's agenda - it is true - but, you know, President Draghi, it is on the agenda of reality, because the agreement made on the elections by Christmas of all evidence will jump, it will not be respected; there is no electoral law either, so we will have to deal with it. I hope, as you said, that we will finally realize that, with a good reception, these people can be an asset for our economy, in many areas, as everyone is now telling us. Happy birthday, President Draghi, good work, but please remember that we are talking about people like us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u21	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Draghi, how the perception of Europe has changed with the outbreak of the pandemic. I remember some definitions like the stepmother, the tyrant or even the leech; today Europe is seen as a community of solidarity that can even share the public debt of individual countries to support the economies and to respond to the serious damage that comes from the pandemic. President Draghi, we, who were the ones who criticized those who described Europe in that disastrous way, today we ask instead for caution from those who say that everything is okay. That is not the case, and you yourself, in your report, have had the foresight to include certain points which have been on the European table for too many years, which are not being dissolved. You spoke of a common defence policy, a common foreign and security policy. Let me add, Mr Draghi, the reference to the common fiscal policy, which generates inequality and unfair competition between Member States, even with the relocation of many companies. We, despite this, Mr Draghi, continue to believe that Europe must be strengthened in order to meet the global challenges. Allow me, President Draghi, to express to you and your Cabinet an appreciation of the fact that the authoritative countries of the European Union have taken Italy as a model of the fight against the Covid. This is a praise that deserves the entire Cabinet and its person. All this exudes the patriotic sense that each of us has in his culture and in his formation. During this period some of this word has been abused; the President of Fratelli d'Italia, Mr Meloni, is right when he says that a tiresome controversy is taking place over the definition of a patriot. Let's put it aside. The question, however, is: how do we best defend national interests in the chessboard not only European, but also global? That's a question. I would also like to be provoked not so naive but without prejudice. Does a sovereign-led Europe best protect the interests of individual Member States and, as far as we are concerned, Italy's particular interests? That is, we do not believe, we believe that we need more Europe, more unity and more solidarity between countries. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we also want to close this parenthesis by taking the definition of a patriot as a defence of identity. I am sorry but I do not agree with Senator Bonino's speech. Perhaps sometimes we forget that the founding fathers wanted this union not only as an aggregation of economic interests, but instead as a foundation for a pillar of shared values and principles. There is too much shyness, President Draghi, tell the European Council, in defending our Jewish-Christian roots. This is the central theme. The Commission's last internal note even calls, in the context of politically correct, to refrain from using words such as Holy Christmas and Mary. This does not go in the direction of respect for other sensibilities, but in the direction of not guaranteeing cultural and social inclusion, without defending one's identity and roots. [[Applause]] We want to make it clear, Mr President. On reaching the main points of your report, let us not share the part where you say that unanimity must be removed on certain strategic issues, a direct obstacle to global competition, which allows us to feed a narrative in which Europe stands firm for a frankly absurd and anachronistic bond. On a number of strategic issues, we move to the relative majority or qualified majority, eliminating unanimity. On some passages, Mr President, all economic indicators are positive. However, we must not lower our attention, because, as you yourself have said, the issue is the risk of inflation that the European Central Bank - unlike the Federal Reserve, which sees it pessimistically - sees optimistically, predicting that it will be able to control it next year, as we also hope. We welcome the proposal to create integrated stocks and hope that what you have said will be implemented, namely the third gas package: it is clear that a contractor representing 500 million citizens at the negotiating table with the various gas delivery services has a higher contractual weight if he speaks with a single voice than anyone who may go alone to deal with it. President, allow me, in conclusion, to mention Ukraine. Europe has a culture that allows it to face crises of this kind through firmness, of course, but also through dialogue. We are not the gendarme of the world, but we must be clear in saying that only by firmly defending our values will we not become the soft belly of the planetary globe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u23	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr Draghi, congratulations to you and your Government on the way they are conducting the fight against Covid. We are among the best in the world, we are the best in Europe. The current reality is a completely different reality than the one that the Conte- bis Government had left us, but we had no doubt at the time when, with our leader Matteo Salvini, we decided, as protagonists, to give life and support this Government. We are the best because in the vaccination campaign we are among the first, we are also the best in terms of infection: there are fewer infections in Italy than in Europe, with an incidence equal to or almost equal to half compared to the rest of the continent. Thanks go to all the governors, the mayors, the health staff, but allow me to extend a special thanks to General Figlio, to whom I wish to express, on behalf of my entire Group, the greatest congratulations for the new position he has received at the head of the operational command interforce summit (COVI), an absolutely deserved task. Let me also say thank you to all the Italians, a people that has once again proved to be wonderful. [[Applause]] Thanks go to 85 percent of Italians who decided to receive the second dose of the vaccine, 20 percent who decided to receive the third dose of the vaccine. I am for the vaccine and I also invite all Italians to vaccinate. I also say thank you to all those Italians who do not intend to immunize themselves because they see it differently, but I also say that at some point, in this House, President, we must also draw a line, we must also say things frankly. For example, it is enough for those who carry out a campaign of hatred against vaccines and against those who are in favour of vaccines with threats and violence. These people need to be told enough, because we can't keep up with them, because it's one thing to see them differently, so those people are confronted with each other, they put different ideas on the table, but another thing is to threaten, another thing is to exercise violence. Also for this reason, to you, President Draghi, I express all the solidarity for the threats you have received; I do so towards Governor Fedriga, who is committed to governing his region and to facing, like all the governors, this damned pandemic and is forced to turn escorted. We're at the door of Christmas. Well, in Christmas there is the deepest meaning of our Christendom - this we repeat and emphasize - but not only Christmas you must not try to erase it, but you must not even try to water it down [[Applause]] , because it is our history, it is our tradition, it is our identity and, at the same time, it is a moment of revival of the economy of our country, for consumption and for tourism. [[Applause]] It has been said, however, that together with the winter season and the omicron variant, it risks helping to facilitate the spread of the virus. What, then, must be done in the light of the data you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first enucleated? We record less infection, less hospitalization and fewer deaths than last year: all this requires balance. We must protect and not mortify Italy. We must protect the health of Italians, but do not depress the country's economy. We must do this with responsibility, with courage, but without retreating. So there's health on one side and the economy on the other. At the same time we need balance at the moment when we extend, I imagine for objective health reasons, the state of emergency. More attention needs to be paid to businesses and families. We therefore call, Mr Draghi, for more courage in combating the increase in electricity and gas bills, more strength in combating tax increases and, above all, more conviction in promoting fiscal peace. This is the moment when we have to meet even more families and businesses. This means procrastinating the expiry of the new folders, bringing to 2022 the expiry of the rotation ter and the balance and deleting that have expired just yesterday. It is also necessary to provide for a c-break so that we can look at 2018 and 2019. I want to make a quick mention of immigration. Mr Draghi, you said that immigrants can be an asset. Yes, Mr President, but only if they come to us alive, so we must prevent these illegal departures, and if we can protect their dignity, with real integration into our country. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this must be done, and this will only be possible if Europe helps us, not to chat, but to the facts, as it has already asked in the past and will also ask for tomorrow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u25	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council on 16 December will have to examine the current situation, first of all considering developments in the Covid-19 and the appearance of this new variant, which is a priority issue for the protection of the health of citizens, but it is also an issue linked to the global crisis and the management of resilience. It is not by chance that we are talking, at this historic moment, about the age of the anthropocene or the era of resilience: we ourselves have called our national plan of recovery and resilience. It is therefore about the ability to withstand challenges and changes and to cope with them, avoiding serious and irreversible damage, both on the ecological and environmental fronts and on the social and economic ones. The pandemic has shown us that crises are becoming increasingly complex and do not stop at borders, but even before the Covid-19 climate change and the decline in biodiversity have also shown that problems are global and involve global communities. The European Union and its Member States have already established cross-border cooperation and solidarity mechanisms to effectively manage the crisis and protect citizens. So this European Council is necessary and important, so that the response to the crisis is clear and evolves to a higher level. All leaders must confront each other in order to support coordinated efforts and thus strengthen our preparedness to face future crises, also directing it towards a systemic and biocentric vision and strengthening our capacity to respond to changes and our collective resilience to the crises that will come. In the future we must be prepared to face acute crises of a different nature, which could also be multiple, hybrid, have cascade effects or occur simultaneously, as is already happening. Mr. President Draghi, the 5 Star Movimento has always, in its history, the mission to protect the common home and the community that lives in it. With the Government led by President Giuseppe Conte we have already faced the beginning of this crisis, at a time when there was no risk assessment, because unfortunately there was not enough news to support and understand what had to be done. We are pleased that now this Government continues to do well and that there is union here too. Sometimes I get a little baffled when I talk to the kids from Fridays for Future, all the associations, but also the companies, President, and they tell us: "you politicians have to work together, because you still have to protect our interests." But by continuing to make distinctions, I don't think we're moving forward in unison. Our battles aim to protect the resilience of our ecosystem, because we know that the well-being of our companies and our community can only go forward if the economic model we are building is fair, sustainable and just. In order to have such an economic model, we must continue to protect the environment, natural capital. I know that in this Council you will be talking about critical critical services, on which the livelihood of citizens depends: water, clean energy, sustainable transport, the health sector, digital infrastructure, issues that the 5 Star Movement has always carried out in its battles. The point is that if we want to address the effects of this crisis and those that will come, such as rising energy prices, scarcity of raw materials, food security and the climate crisis itself (which is linked to migration), we need to tackle them with cross-sectoral and cross-border global management, not just European. We spoke and you yourself said just now that fortunately national GDP is expected to increase by 6.2 percent in 2021 and that we certainly tend, as an Italian economy, to return to pre-crisis production levels by mid- 2022; these are the forecasts. What I wanted to say is that we will only go in this direction if we also put the protection of the ecosystem and the climate first. In these days the Movimento 5 Stars, like all other political forces, has met the Italian environmental associations: WWF, Fridays for Future, Legambiente, Greenpeace, Kyoto Club, Catholics for the climate and all the others. Everyone's pushing us into a climate law that's a framework law. This is fine for us. But we ask you what is the right thing for us to do: in order to have a shared climate law, solidarity, human and safe (I use your first words), that is, safe also for the recovery of our companies and for their competitiveness in a global market, it is right that perhaps there is a European climate law, a supranational climate law, because it is important that there is harmonisation between the parameters of carbon footprint and everything that will be put in place. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we can come back and we will certainly go back to having a better life, because in the end an economic model should do this: protect its own community so that it can live better, in all respects. But we can only achieve this if we all face a gentle revolution, all states. The transition cannot be made by a single country. We in Italy, with the Ministry of the ecological transition, have worked very well and will continue to work, carrying out very strong actions. But we are telling you to really create supranational bodies in Europe that can handle the crisis, because, unfortunately, so far, something has not worked. I have seen that we are talking about a particular process of defining integrated mechanisms for the political response to the crisis: well come. But, in addition to economic parameters, we also evaluate environmental parameters and protect our environment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u27	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr Draghi, just a few brief moments to make two digressions. The first is about a term that I have heard three colleagues use. I am referring to the word 'patriots'. We were accused of being at least visionary fools when we talked about the need to act as patriots and to guard national sovereignty and above all national interest, but today, whoever is less, we finally use this term. There is therefore a fairly legitimate satisfaction, because a great teacher said that when you see your words bloom on the opponent's mouth, something is obviously happening. Beyond that, I would like to point out that we use terms that emphasize political reasoning, while in other places, in other areas, labels are used. We of Brothers of Italy are the no vax most vaccinated in the world; we have reached the third dose, we are convincedly pro vax, but for someone, evidently bearer of ideas so weak that we cannot compare them with ours, we need to be labeled and this makes us smile. The second digression concerns the case of this House, which - as you will have noted, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - applauds it on a rotating basis, with a kind of oil, which is not collective. If you are talking about certain things, you applaud one part of the House, if you are talking about other things, you applaud the other, but you will never be able to see them all applauded together, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You may have noticed this. [[Applause]] But I think it'll make you smile like we smile. Coming to the merit, the first point of his reasoning starts from the events related to the Covid. For us, obviously, it is necessary to continue to ask questions, because science nourishes of doubts and therefore of questions; health is not a dogma, nor accepts dogmas, and it is not a religion: the vaccine, in fact, saves the body but does not save the soul, therefore it is not the Eucharist. In all this, we are concerned to continue to look at our doubts and concerns. Between doses purchased and selected, the European Union has 4.4 billion doses of vaccine, over ten per head. This is written on the European Union's website. Almost a billion of these 4.4 billion doses have been delivered. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tell us that Europe has convinced itself that it wants to donate 357 million doses out of 4.4 billion (between purchases and options): are we sure that this is the measure of awareness that we must all vaccinate in order to really defeat the virus? Italy delivered 134 million doses through the Covax mechanism, as you said, and I believe that this is an issue to be observed when it comes up in that area. According to journalistic sources, we bought these 4.4 billion doses with contracts that are still secreted to date. On 21 October last, the European Parliament adopted a resolution with 458 votes in favour calling for a more transparent process of research into, buying and distributing vaccines against Covid-19, which would allow Members, but also citizens, to check more effectively the Union's policies on vaccines. In these contracts, Mr President, according to journalistic sources, because unfortunately we do not have the contents of these contracts available and therefore we must adhere to the journalistic sources, there is the price of the Pfizer vaccine, ranging from a figure of 15.50 euros per dose, sometimes even 13.50 euros, to 17.50 euros, depending on the demand. The Modern vaccine is the most expensive of all, because it costs 18.80 euros per dose. In particular, these contracts reveal the fact that compensation for any damage to the side effects will fall on the States: this is an indispensable condition for the production and delivery of vaccines. On the issue of compensation, President, it is not by chance that Brothers of Italy has prepared an amendment, which is one of the reported ones, which makes available a figure, calculated in one billion euros per year for the next three years, to increase the funding of the fund for the compensation of vaccine damages. I want to point out that the National Pharmacovigilance Network, i.e. the structures responsible for collecting reports, has remained the same since the beginning of the pandemic, by express admission of the director of Aifa. However, President, the reports recorded by the National Pharmacovigilance Network from 27 December 2020 to 26 August 2021, so not all the year 2021, were 84,000. You know, President, how many pharmacovigilance reports have been reported in all previous years, over the last 40 years? There have been 700 in all the previous forty years, with influenza vaccines, with hexavalent vaccines, with measles vaccine; all the vaccination campaigns of the last forty years have recorded 700 reports in the Pharmacovigilance Network. With Covid, only in the period from 27 December 2020 to 26 August 2021, 84,000 reports have been recorded and the receptors of these reports are the same in quantity and quality. Well, on the need to record and evaluate these pharmacovigilance reports well, President, let me give you just one example: there has been an abnormal incidence of myocarditis and pericarditis after mRNA vaccines. The need to report these events immediately is closely and directly related to the possibility of dealing with these effects, which are absolutely insignificant if recognized and treated promptly. Aifa has become aware of this risk, which has been pointed out perfectly by the vaccine manufacturers, both Pfizer and Moderna, and has transmitted to the structures the need to monitor, because this incidence of side effect or adverse event - as should be said - is particularly for children under the age of thirty, but the network of free choice pediatricians does not have this awareness; these symptoms that are trivial, if not treated promptly or neglected, determine the possibility that there may be a sudden worsening. With regard to this necessity, Brothers of Italy submitted an amendment, because, beyond the vaccination obligation, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment n. 118 of 2020, states that the right to compensation is based on the needs of social solidarity that require a community to bear the damages that the citizen has suffered for having subjected to vaccination, even in the interest of the community. These are the same words that you, Mr President, used: you must vaccinate to protect yourself, your family members and your working colleagues, and the Constitutional Court has made an absolutely unequivocal statement on this. We continue to ask the usual questions and, beyond the annoyance of having to give us answers, we wonder whether this could be a reason to improve the information and news that we transfer to citizens. I remember, in fact, that there are almost 7 million Italians who did not want to receive even the first dose of this vaccine and this is the real big problem of our country. We must succeed in convincing this part of the population and we can only do so by choosing policies of total transparency and awareness, for example through the general medical doctors who, to date, are the ones who have been in absentia to carry out the control of their patients and their caregivers. With regard to all this, Mr President, let us have a final advice: before we proceed to the vaccination of children, we come in every way to vaccinate those 7 million Italians, because they are adults and they have to vaccinate. The world cannot be overthrown: we cannot vaccinate children to protect adults; we must end up vaccinating adults to protect children as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u29	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u30	Madam President, in the run-up to the forthcoming Council of Europe, the Senate will soon give the President of the Council the political force that can only come from Parliament's will in a representative democracy. Your speech just now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, was of great importance, not only because of the references to the full agenda of the next Council of Europe, starting with the fight against the Covid that Italy is leading with great attention and a sense of responsibility, but above all because of the idea of a Europe that you have been able to draw up in this House. The next European Council is very important, also because of the delicacy of the phase that the world is going through, because the recent international summit has significantly signalled the disturbing threats of authoritarianism towards democracies and the latest serious evidence we have had with the continuous computer poisonings of many democratic electoral processes and with the subversive plan against the election of Joe Biden. Today Europe is very different from the European Coal and Steel Community of 1957; it is larger, stronger and later in the process of integration. However, the enterprise is not yet complete and the last mile is missing, the most difficult because, while economic union has made important progress, for decades political union has stalled because of the conflict of the different interests of the European nations. In the sixty-four years since the Treaty of Rome, Europe has been experiencing positive times and difficult times and is still experiencing great uncertainty today, not only because of the difficulties of relations between Eastern and Western Europe and because of the Russian military pressure on Ukraine's borders, which is the most serious point of these difficulties, but also because since 1989 the old bipolar world order has vanished and since then the world has - and is thus still - been living a messy phase of transition. The simultaneity of so many economic, environmental, health, social and military crises is not due to chance, but to their mutual feed, because there is a link between the health and economic crisis, between global warming and migration, between new technologies and the growth of inequalities, between the challenge between the United States and China and the military tensions of indopacifica. In fact, the whole planet is under severe instability and only the political unity of Europe can give Europeans the chance to count on the world. Today, the completion of the path towards a more united, more united and stronger Europe can be resumed. President Draghi spoke of a strategic compass. We can also observe that in the core of the founding countries there is a growing awareness that the great problems of the continent cannot be solved without real political unity. In the world, Europe enjoys the prestige of its history, culture and values, but its influence on the balance of the planet and on peace processes is essentially irrelevant. That is the point: Europe's deficit is institutional and political. It is not a federation or a confederation, but a union of states held together by treaties. It does not have a Constitution and is governed by a substantially intergovernmental system, which can only decide unanimously by the 27 Member States. Hence the very risky paralysis of uncoordinated migration management and the serious delay in foreign and defence policy. In recent decades the dangers of peace have multiplied and we would have been very short-sighted if we thought that it was enough for Europe to want peace to have it. Today, in the geopolitical confrontation, only the great continental powers have a say. As you pointed out, Mr Draghi, a stronger and more integrated Europe strengthens the Atlantic alliance and makes it stronger. We know that the strategic priority of the United States has gone from the Atlantic to the Pacific and that there is a point of continuity between democratic and republican administrations. Obama, Trump, Biden have noted that Americans are no longer willing to send their children to die in wars that they do not consider their wars. At such a high risk, Europe comes without a real government that, in its name, can democratically decide on foreign and defence policy. For Europe to deal with these issues requires the ability to update the Treaties and unravel nodes always considered divisive. No foreign and defence policy; no defence against the atrocities against migrants, about which Senator Bonino spoke earlier, can coexist with the obligation to decide unanimously. Similarly, real political union presupposes a stronger European Parliament and greater clarity in the relationship between Parliament, the Commission and the Council of Europe. Finally, the many contrasts between blocs of states strongly re-propose a multi-speed Europe. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as I have already mentioned, I very much appreciated the vision of Europe that you expressed earlier in your speech. However, I would never have dealt with these issues if, on the occasion of the signing of the agreement between Italy and France, I had not heard it say, with regard to Europe: "The deepest meaning of this treaty is that our sovereignty, understood as our ability to direct the future, can only be strengthened through a shared management of common challenges." Nor would I have done so if President Macron had not said that with Italy France shares the vision of "a more integrated, more democratic, more sovereign Europe." The key word was spoken by you, Mr Draghi, and Mr Macron: sovereignty, European sovereignty. You have done so in perfect harmony with Chancellor Scholz, whose coalition has signed a government agreement that provides - I have never heard of it in a government agreement of this Europe - a European federal state, a European defence and the end of unanimity. President Draghi, your European ideals allow the Senate to invite you to put the subject of European sovereignty to your colleagues at the European Council, together with Macron and Sholtz, just as you put it a few days ago when you signed the Treaty with France. You can do that; indeed, you must do so, knowing that the objective is ambitious, that the difficult path and that the political unknowns are numerous, but also knowing that if Europe is not able to move forward towards the goal step by step, it will never arrive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laforgia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u32	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for the punctuality of your communications. I imagine that it is rather tried for having had to listen to a significant sequence of requests from Members this morning, as it is your duty to do. I apologise in advance if I too would add some of the repetitions I have heard in this debate. In just a few minutes, I wanted to make a few comments on the content of the next European Council, which you will be responsible for trying to represent some of these bodies. The first: almost two years have passed since the outbreak of this pandemic. This is a new season for the generations that are undergoing it. It was a nerve race that will be won by those who try to hold these nerves, but the nerve race will also be won by those who have proposed and will have put in place an effective and efficient organizational model. President, I am not used to rhetoric, all the more so if it is used to sweeten the complicated phases of our country's history. This is certainly a very difficult phase, but, as we have all done, even our colleagues in this House, having been the recipients of the administration of a vaccine, we have tried and touched with hand how efficient and effective this gigantic organizational machine has become. Almost a year has passed since the first doses and seems to change the world. On 27 December - if I am not mistaken - the first doses were given and today, as you rightly pointed out, we have reached almost 100 million doses in Italy alone in a European panorama with a total of 300 million. This miracle and this operation have been possible thanks to this ability that we have been able to put on the field and thanks to what we often call doctors and nurses. Perhaps we should point out that those doctors and nurses are often doctors and nurses, as well as women were supermarket clerks, teachers, the many workers who have allowed to withstand the impact from the point of view of the estate on the material and psychological level, in such a complicated period for the life and history of our country. Mr President, we have done all this through a public debate which has not been easy. I am sorry to say this, but it has often been poisoned - today, fortunately, much less so - and exasperated by the tones of some leaders present in this majority, as well as outside of it, who have tried to do something that I consider to be "mooning." They have tried to counter a supposed self-determination of individuals and a principle of freedom, which is, of course, sacrosanct, with a principle of caution, which fortunately, Mr President, we have been able to hold firm. The principle of caution is what has allowed us to keep the bar straight on the ground of security measures and that today makes us say that Italy has reached goals much more positive than those achieved by other countries. I say this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thinking also of another debate that you Heads of Government have the responsibility of bringing to the European Council: the risk of a short circuit between the fact that some democratic regimes, which are not really liberal and which are within the perimeter of the European Union, have, yes, tightened up measures that have narrowed the sphere of personal freedom and a piece of European public opinion that has self-powered a story such as what we call a non-scientific non-vax; in this risk of short-circuit there is an issue that concerns the quality of our democracies, and that makes it inadmissible; a risk that also places us in the urgency of expressing the maximum of solidarity to a great professional, a journalist like Lucia Goracci, who has been the target of a surreal affair in a country within the perimeter of the European Union. This is not acceptable, and you, as the Head of the Italian Government, have the responsibility to bring precisely this aspect to the European Council: the quality of the democracies present today in the perimeter of the European Union. This is true of Romania and is true of an incredible thing already mentioned, namely the inadmissibility that a continent, even better than a political project of 500 million inhabitants, accepts that 6,000 desperate people dwell on the Polish border in inhumane conditions; it was a debate that also went through this debate. This is not acceptable. Secondly, I consider the measures taken against expensive bills to be worthwhile, even though they are short-term measures. This suggestion is positive, but it must be translated into concrete policies, in relation to the issue of integrated storage of strategic gas stocks, which give a sense of a minimally more structural measure. But there is little to do and you have fortunately mentioned it in your speech: either we write in cubital characters within the political agendas of the countries and of the European Union the word decarbonization or we do not get out of it; or we agree that the ecological transition is as fast as possible and we ensure that the costs that it inevitably produces are not discharged on the weakest groups, or that transition - to quote a prophet of the ecology of this country - simply will not be socially desirable, and therefore it will not and will not be able to unfold its positive effects. I end up with a 'out of sack', which is perhaps not because it concerns the work and material conditions of people and workers. We are on the eve of a general strike and I think that the institutions, politics and parties of every extraction must no longer admit, as has been in some way admitted in part at this stage of the public debate, that the use of an institution that remains constitutionally foreseen as that of the strike, in the sign of respect for the autonomy of the unions, is stigmatized. If anything, our theme, as a government, as a policy and as a Parliament, is to take on the issues that the trade unions, and not only them, place at the centre of our attention: issues that concern wages, purchasing power, pensions; the theme of wild relocations. I think that we must accept this issue, because we must assume this responsibility towards those who today risk paying higher prices than others, because there is a segmentation and the risk of an enlargement of the scissor of inequality that this country cannot afford. It is therefore our responsibility to give not only a voice to that uneasiness, but to sketch out some more effective responses than those we have put in place, starting with the next budget law at the moment. Thank you for your attention, Mr President-in-Office, and I wish you every success. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u33	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Draghi, as we know, the next European Council will once again have at the heart of the political agenda the fight against the pandemic. The fight against the virus is not over yet, and in this respect it will be essential to strengthen coordination between Member States. At the moment, the only weapon that has proved effective against Covid-19 is the vaccine. That is why the next Council will be an opportunity to demand that Member States undertake to extend vaccination as far as possible to their population. Italy has achieved an excellent vaccine coverage, and for this I thank you, President, General Son and all those who contributed to this important result; but we do not live in a bubble. The virus knows no borders, it is essential to ensure that the rest of the Union and the world accelerate on immunization to allow a global coverage of 70% in 2022, as agreed at the G20 Summit. In Eastern Europe, vaccination coverage is low; in four countries, the percentage of twice-dose vaccinees is less than 50%. I am talking about Croatia, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. A greater commitment is also needed to African countries, where only 6% of the population is immunised and where new variants may emerge by making vaccines less effective. As we know, the virus has not only affected people's health, but also the economy. This is why the focus on energy prices must be kept high, working to reduce costs for households and businesses. The green deal is certainly the future, but in the meantime there is a present fact of difficulty, and it is to these that we must give answers in the immediate. The Government, as Forza Italia has asked, has allocated a considerable amount to limit the effects of the expensive bills, but we agree with you, President Draghi, that, if it becomes necessary, you will have to intervene further to reassure the Italians. We must continue on the path to the energy transition, but at the same time work to make it more sustainable. The path to a more green Europe must not be consumed on the skin of workers and businesses; the green transition must certainly be an objective, but it cannot become an ideology. Maximum attention will also be paid to the automotive sector, the flagship of the Italian economy. The objective of eliminating diesel and petrol cars by 2035, for example, is an ambitious goal that will meet several obstacles. This is why companies in the sector must be accompanied and supported in their conversion. In this context, greater attention must be paid to the even more decisive role that China can play. It is not a mystery that Beijing holds much of the valuable mineral reserves necessary for ecological transition. To become even more dependent on an illiberal regime such as China, Mr President, certainly raises a great deal of concern in us. Then there is the fourth generation of nuclear power, on which so much is being discussed at European level and on which Italy too should reflect and open a constructive confrontation, without ideological prejudices or foreclosures. Today, we learned from Commissioner Timmermans that we are going back on the proposal for a directive on the energy performance of buildings, which would prevent the sale of houses that do not comply with certain energy standards. Forza Italia is satisfied with this, since we had expressed great concern about it. The European Commissioner also seems to cancel the Italian superbonus for restructuring, so I take advantage of it, President Draghi, since the adoption of the draft budget law is approaching, to ask for the renewal of this measure also for single-family houses regardless of income; not to interrupt the positive effects on the economy obtained thanks to this measure which, moreover, contributes decisively to energy saving. The ecological transition cannot be the means to achieve a happy decline, but it will have to be an opportunity to open up new avenues and new business scenarios thanks to state-of-the-art technologies, in harmony with the environment. As far as migration is concerned, Mr President, there are many doubts about the Schengen reform which still penalises Italy by making it easier to reject the first port states, including our own, of course. As I have pointed out several times in this House, our country must commit more forcefully to reforming the Treaty of Dublin, overcoming the principle of the country of first landing, to affirm what the southern borders of the Union are neither Italian, nor Greek, nor Spanish, but are European borders and, as such, should be considered. The main road to managing flows must remain that of balanced redistribution. This being so, the path of cooperation with Africa must be strengthened in order to support economic development in practice, thus removing the root causes of migration flows from that continent. As Pope Benedict XVI has well defined it, we must guarantee the right not to emigrate, that is, to be placed in the conditions to remain in our own land. Then there is the delicate issue of relations with Russia. It is clear that it is necessary to call on the Russian Federation to reduce military tensions at the border with Ukraine, and in doing so it is essential, on the one hand, to reaffirm full European support for Ukraine's territorial integrity, but, on the other hand, and we agree with you, President, to continue the dialogue in order to avoid a dangerous escalation of tensions. In addition, the identity of the European Union is based on common values that have Christian, Illuminist, Greek and Roman roots, following what Senator Bonino said. In the name of these roots I do not find it hard to say that the images coming from the border between Poland and Belarus are shameful. It is unacceptable for children to suffer from frost and snow for geopolitical reasons. The Belarusian regime arrests political opponents, does not guarantee rights and freedoms and is bringing the population to an end. We don't leave those people alone. The European Union is making itself felt more strongly. The next European Council will also be an opportunity to discuss defence and the first core of common army to be deployed in crisis situations. Forza Italia hopes that such a situation will be established for a long time so that the Union can rely on a real foreign policy to play a more important role at international level and to better address the new challenges ahead. That is why we hope that this new goal will be reached as soon as possible. To conclude, Mr President, I hope that you will be able to take advantage of this day of discussion with the Italian Parliament and that it will bring our demands to Europe. Forza Italia naturally wishes you a good job and a Merry Christmas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u35	Senator Candura is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your timely report. I only have seven minutes and so many points to deal with. I'll touch four. The first: the strategic compass. We are very happy with every investment in the defence and security system of our country and Europe in the face of threats and a geopolitical situation that defines fluid is a euphemism. But there are "buts." I find it interesting and curious at least that the pursuit of a common European strategy and, therefore, common objectives between the various partners should be pursued through the proposal to overcome the principle of unanimity. What majority - I wonder - will decide what the interests of Italy are, for example? Because this means overcoming the principle of unanimity; the majority wins. However, we are not talking about a country that passes to democracy, but about an agreement between countries and overcoming the principle of unanimity is a leap in the dark where it is not exactly defined who has the right to decide. Who has the right to decide is the strongest in a system between countries, according to the realistic interpretation of international law and international relations. That leaves me with a lot of doubts. One solution could be to recall the fundamental function of the transatlantic relationship between the United States, Europe and NATO. We welcome a unity of European defence and European foreign policy where the European Union is not simply interoperable with NATO, but is part of it, with a NATO that dictates geopolitical priorities, considering that both NATO and many European partners have interests that transcend the borders of Europe. And as for powers such as Italy and the countries of the East, we often face different threats. As a result, there is a need for an umbrella, an alliance that is far from dead - neither brainly nor physically - simply needs to be used for how it was born, that is, as a military alliance. There would be more to say, but I don't have the time. I shall therefore turn to the subject of migration. Yesterday there was a weekly meeting of the College of European Commissioners, which made two comments on migration. The first concerns the amendment of the Schengen Code to protect countries undergoing secondary movements. It's interesting. Secondary movements - as we all know - are intended to refer to migrants moving from the first port country to other European countries. It does not seem to me that it is exactly the problem that Italy suffers, so it is reiterated again - at the time of the update of the code - that the countries of first port - if I may say so - arrange themselves. The problem of migration is a European problem, it cannot be a problem of some European countries: is Italy perhaps the bad company of immigration in Europe? Members, in a society, share profits and losses, which is why I am surprised and embarrassed, especially in a context like this Parliament where we are talking about Europe as a fantastic ideal. [[Applause]] The second part of the migration issue falls under another system, with the problem at the gates of Europe, in Belarus. It is clear, however, that this is no longer a problem of economic and climatic migration, but it is a new generation of weapon - to quote the book "War Without Limits" by Chinese colonels Wang Xiangsui and Qiao Liang - that is, migrant human beings used as a tool of strategic and political pressure to gain benefits. However, it is not new: Turkey collected six billion euros from Europe a few years ago in order not to use the flows to our disadvantage and to our detriment, in particular to the detriment of the countries of Central Europe. Consequently, we are not surprised that immigration is not an internal policy problem, but a defence and foreign security problem, and that is what we must bear in mind: a new generation of weapons used against us. We are talking about Ukraine and Belarus, but we must talk about Russia, because it is undeniable that, just as migrants on the Polish-Lithuanian border are an instrument of pressure from Russia towards Europe, in the same way the Russian army at the gates of Ukraine is an instrument of political pressure towards us. We have two points to make in this regard. The economic-energy balance between Russia and Europe is in these terms: in 2019 Europe needed 500 billion cubic metres of gas per year, which was around 39 percent from Russia. Russia, however - and we must also reason from his point of view - has 20% of GDP achieved through the export of energy raw materials to the European Union. The leverage is biunivoc, it's not just them who put pressure on us, we can also put pressure on them. Of course, if Europe's storage capacity is one fifth of its requirements, it is difficult to build up reserves and then set them off at the right time. In this regard, I also say that an extreme position on Ukraine's strategic alignment is dangerous. At the moment, Europe is pressing for Ukraine within the European Union and this is extremely dangerous, because it leads to controversy with Russia, which could align with China and the Indo-Pacific is a scenario that I do not even talk about because I no longer have the time. The last topic I would like to address is the summit with the Organisation for African Unity. I would point out that for the ecological transition we will need those raw materials that Africa is rich in and on which China is putting its hands (i.e. only cobalt in Congo). For the ecological transition it is not only a question of gas and nuclear, but of raw materials to support the transition to renewable sources. President. - Thank you again for your work. Support Italy in Europe and not Europe in Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u37	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u38	Mr President, what has this crisis taught us? The Covid has only exploded the contradictions that already existed before the crisis. The inequalities were already there, just as there was already the climate crisis, the domination of finance over the economy and the vulnerability of European industry due to the length of the supply chain and the outsourcing of production, not to mention the digital sector, where the firepower of the US and Chinese giants clearly exposed the backwardness of the European Union. This is before everyone's eyes, but the global crisis has made it clear and accelerated its effects. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to start from this point of view in order to frame the current context. Tomorrow you'll have to talk about resilience, energy and security. To face the challenges ahead, we need a model that is in discontinuity with that of the pre-pandemic era. Tomorrow, Mr President, it will be the first European Council in which there will be no Angela Merkel. It almost seems that an era has ended, just as it seemed that an era had ended when Margaret Thatcher left and he finished his post as Prime Minister. We therefore ask you to have the strength and courage to take control of the Union and to do what others have failed to do: to change the structure of the European Union. For example, we ask you to implement what is written in Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union, when it comes to full employment and - why not? - insert it or push it into the Statute of the ECB, as an objective - that of full employment - to do as the FED does. Who can do that, Mr President-in-Office, but you? Moreover, again on Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union, when it is said that the European Union is a highly competitive social market economy, why not change the words and say that it is an eco-social market economy, which is highly competitive vis-à-vis non-EU countries. Who can do that, Mr President-in-Office, but you? Mr President, a late 19th century American philosopher named John Dewey said that the most felt need of human nature is to feel and be important. You have already experienced this human phase, when you saved the euro and was at the heart of the attentions of the whole world. So you are facing the possibility of doing what others have not done, rather of succeeding where others have failed. It is time to take the reins of Europe and try to change it deeply, not in words, but in deeds. The question is whether you are willing to do so, whether you intend to do so and whether you are determined to do so. Europe needs to be changed in order to have a higher level of internal capacity, in terms of energy production, IT security, data management and usage capabilities, as well as an increase in resilience to asymmetric shocks occurring in other parts of the world. In order to do this, we must overcome the concept of intra-Community competition and work in cooperation between the Member States and between the industrial players of the European Union. The wealth produced must then be redistributed, for the benefit of the citizens of the European Union. The transformation must have an ecological vision in order to ensure that the Union is a world champion from this point of view. That is the point of the proposals we made earlier and that the 5 Star Movement tabled on a motion, which we submitted to the House in March of this year. Competition within the European Union does not lead us to be a strong competitor, but we need cooperation. First, Senator Zanda spoke of the European Community, using a beautiful word, to have a real competition with the great giants, with the great world actors such as the United States and China - with the United States for the digital world and with China from the point of view of the industrial path - and then to start taking a path that goes towards strategic autonomy seriously and forcefully. Just two themes. On cybersecurity let's remember that the main pan-European dorsal fiber optics are in the hands of US companies or funds and that on the subject of the cloud the largest companies are all US, even if the Chinese obviously do not fail to have regions in Europe. The Gaia X project, which talks about the cloud, is a weak project, because it is a federation and in this federation there are also the great US and Chinese actors; instead we would need something different, we would need something like the old Airbus project, in which there was a consortium of European companies that faced the system. Today Airbus is the largest competitor in the world of American Boeing. From an industrial point of view, asymmetry has shown us how Italy is a great producer and supplier of quality pieces to other European countries; but this is also based on the fact that the wages in Italy in the last thirty years, as you know, have not increased, indeed have decreased, unlike all other countries of Europe. Then we need a change of pace. Let me give you an example, something that seems to be detailed; I'm talking to you about permanent magnets. Permanent magnets are the basis of the ecological transition: they are used to make wind turbines and for the automotive industry. Europe imports 95% of permanent magnets from China, which is the strongest world producer with 95% of world production. We must produce permanent magnets, but in order to do this, we must overcome a gap on the basic substances; in particular we could mention one, the neodymium, which is a rare earth. But Europe cares about rare lands for 100%. That is, perhaps we must understand that the ERMA project, which is the European alliance for raw materials, must be vigorously pushed. An industry of the future, which is an ecological industry, a deep industry, where we work on the subject of digital, cannot be separated from the possibility of overcoming this gap, which is an all-European gap. Perhaps we should think about doing something that we might call "national mine," that is, a large factory that, starting from WEEE, produces those rare earths and those elements, such as lithium, which are the basis of batteries and therefore of the storage of the automotive industry, which are used to change the system. Maybe we should do this. That is, when we talk about security, resilience and clean energy, we should do these things; but these things involve a great deal of cooperation between states. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, can and must honour the mandate which Parliament has given you. You must be the head of rams in the transformation of the Union. That is the real task we have assigned you. Do so and it will show that the choice to identify you as President of the Council has made sense, which goes beyond national logics. Do so and you will be applauded by citizens who want a Europe that is close to the people and not close to finance or business logics that are instead far from their needs. Do it, ma'am, do it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u39	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Granato, No 2, Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, Bonino, Nannicini, Garavini, Steger and De Petris, No 3, Senator Ciriani and other senators, and No 4, Senator Paragone and other senators. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to thank you for all the ideas and congratulations that many of you have given to government action. I would like to make two general comments. One is that this Government, as you have seen, faces change not in a defensive spirit, but with courage and determination. I believe all of you have acknowledged this. But it is also, I must say, a very difficult change. Think that over two and a half years or three years our perspective has changed radically: the Covid, the ecological transition, the digital transition, the necessity, the new geopolitical challenges. It is a period of great change and this suggests the other dominant line of government action. The change must be dealt with with with courage, if you want with foresight and intelligence, but constant in this must be the gaze to the weakest, otherwise the change does not take place [[Applause]] The second general consideration, which in a certain sense responds to a point that many of you have raised, concerns vaccines and government action in the vaccination campaign. In this regard, first of all I would like to offer a public thanks to General Son [[Applause),]] because - as some of you have observed - the organizational and logistic effort has been imposing. However, in the various positions that can be taken in this regard, I would just like to remind you that we have recovered a normality, with which we can look at this Christmas and the holidays with some tranquility, at the price of more than 134,000 dead. Therefore - taking up the words spoken this morning by a Member - we want to defend and defend this normality with our nails and teeth. [[Applause]] Now I come to some points raised by some of you. I share with Senator Renzi the heartbreaking sense of the words of the professor of history Carmina. It is a beautiful letter that he writes to his students and must be remembered forever. [[Applause]] Senator Renzi then wonders how realistic it is today to think of a return of the Stability Pact in its past formulation. Senator Renzi is not present now, but the points highlighted are interesting and deserve an answer. How realistic is it today to think of a reformulation of the Stability Pact as it was in force until shortly before the pandemic? I don't think it's realistic. The rules of the Stability Pact have proved ineffective and procyclical, i.e. harmful. I began to say this in the last three years of my stay at the European Central Bank (ECB) and I am increasingly convinced of it and, therefore, should have been changed in any case. But then we have to consider the advent of the pandemic, the enormous expenses that we have had to face for the pandemic itself, but above all the enormous expenses that we will have to face to overcome those transitions to which the European Union calls us: the ecological transition, the digital transition and then the defence. I refer to these rules in their wording at the time, along with other rules, as well as the rules on State aid. How can one think of making an ecological transition or a digital transition without an active role of the State in the process of creating new businesses? [[Applause]] Therefore, I believe that the effort to reflect on the whole of the European Union will be profound and complex. Moreover, the Commission is aware of this; both the Commission and the Commission are aware of this and are aware of the fact that they are responsible for the Stability Pact. There is no reason to doubt that an in-depth debate can then generate a shared solution, because what I have just said is actually what is happening throughout the rest of Europe. It's very difficult to go back to the past. Having said that, however, I would like to add that the rules are needed and a new system of rules will have to be established. We must bear in mind that, together with this reflection on the rules, there will also be another reflection that has begun to find concreteness with the Next generation EU, that is, the creation of a common budget, both in creating solidarity to face events like those we have experienced, and in creating in perspective what is defined a fiscal capacity, that allows countries to face the stabilization of the economic cycle, so as not to aggravate their position when there are crises, as happened in the period after the financial crisis. Professor Monti, I agree with you: Italy has been strengthened in Europe, Europe has been strengthened in Italy and Italy has been strengthened in the world. I must add, however, that the feeling of renewed confidence on the part of the rest of the world, on the part of Europe and Italy, also leads to a great responsibility. It leads the country's responsibility to show that this trust is deserved. Maybe we talked about it last time, but reflect on the approximately 220 billion Next Generation EU that were given to Italy, which means that other European countries have agreed to tax their citizens to give money to Italy. This means that we must be deeply responsible for proving that this trust is deserved. Therefore, the expenses and investments of the Next Generation EU, with the reforms that the program entails, must be done and done well. Many interventions, such as those of Senators Ripamonti, Renzi, Girotto and Candura, touched on the question of the price of energy. As I said before, the government is intervening to an extent that has no precedent to protect the weakest sections of the population, from the disadvantaged to families, micro-enterprises, to commercial businesses with a figure that, if we think about it for a moment, is about 8 billion in six months; in other words, in six months, at the end of March, we will have spent 8 billion on this. It is thought that in the second part of the year gas prices will be able to fall - this is what market forecasts tell us - but, as I noted, there are structural components that will probably make this drop less marked than would be desirable, so perhaps we will have to resign ourselves to a structural increase in the price of energy. There is therefore also a need for a structural reflection on this. The European Commission has already made proposals for joint purchases of storage, but there are also other proposals: interconnections need to be improved so that they can be transferred to the various countries of the European Union with supplies from other countries of the Union. In any case, the price of gas will also be influenced by geopolitical factors. In particular, the Nord Stream 2 pipeline is or could become a negotiating instrument in the policy between the European Union and Russia. If it were to become part of the sanctioning apparatus - we hope it should not be necessary - it is clear that the influence on the price of gas will be very marked: today there are enough voices to see effects on the increase in the price of gas. There is therefore a need for more detailed consideration, in particular on the formation of gas prices. Today the energy produced by the hydropower and renewables has an almost zero price - specifically, the hydropower has been cushioned for a long time - but it is paid by us at the price of gas. Therefore, in the face of the sacrifice of so many citizens, there are huge profits made by those who produce with hydro, as well as by those who produce with renewables. Think that we are still paying the incentives for renewables that were decided, perhaps, fifteen or ten years ago. In addition to this, today there is the gain that comes from the price of gas and the possibility of selling energy at that price. This is a European price formation scheme. The debate began in Europe and Mr Cingolani is an active part of it. There are also many other aspects that clearly suggest that the time has come for structural reflection on this issue. [[Applause]] To Senator Girotto I say that it is certainly a problem of standards - I agree with you - but it is also a problem of technology. Today we pay for energy in a very different way; in particular, we probably pay more than all the other countries: Germany pays much less than us; France pays a little more than Germany and a little less than Italy; Spain I think is more or less at the Italian level. There is therefore the talk of the energy mixes, the starting conditions and the technologies employed. Today - for example - during COP26 some European countries refused to sign the decision to block investment in coal-fired plants, to block extractions and financing of coal-fired plants. And these are countries of the European Union, which, of course, pay much less for energy than we do. In this case too, therefore, we need an overall reflection. It is a question of standards, but also of technology. Senator Bonino and others raised the issue of human rights, respect for human rights at the border between Russia and Poland. I entirely agree with Senator Bonino's remarks. By the way, it's 3,000-4,000 people, and we only took more than 63,000 this year. Therefore, even the numbers do not justify these inhuman treatments, and that will be said to the European Council. [[Applause]] More generally, the problem is very complex. It is a very long speech and, therefore, it is not the time to deal with it. But I can say a few things. The first effort, perhaps, is to deideologize the issue of migration. Some numbers are absolutely not sustainable, some others are. How do you make migrations become resources? Here, unfortunately, we have a lot to do. As Italians we have a lot to do, not to improve, but to build a reception system that makes those people of resources on the labour market and, finally, friends of Italians and not enemies. If we don't do this, we'll only produce enemies. And we have already had this discussion again, but I repeat that, with this system of reception, the capacity that Italy has to absorb the people legally present in Italy are few. So, we have to invest a lot more and probably rebuild our system. Why, then, am I talking about de ideologizing the issue? I hear about defending roots and identity. Now, I don't want to go into the definition of what roots are and what identity is. But I believe that one way to defend the roots and identity is to affirm and live the values characteristic of our roots and our identity. For example, one of these values is solidarity; another, however, is responsibility. [[Applause]] We must be careful - in my opinion - to reason in terms that may not be ideological, but pragmatic on the subject. I say this because Senator Saccone had raised such a need, however, together with the statement that more Europe is needed. I'm convinced. To address global challenges, we need to go beyond national borders. It's clear and you've seen it. The pandemic, the environment, climate change, European defence, the digital and ecological transition are all challenges that, by their very definition, cross national borders. So, you have to find a way to work together. Senator L'Abbate recalled the need for everyone to make their transition, that there are no countries that are backing out. A few steps forward was taken during the G20. Of course, it is a long process, but the fact that it is long and difficult does not exempt us from the responsibility of calling all those countries to make their transition. Of course - as I said before - the starting conditions are different and the transition is not cost-free. It is enough to think, in fact, that the country that produces 50% of the world's steel has almost all the coal-fired plants. Now it is converting them into gas plants and the price of gas increases, and it increases structurally because, if the transition in that country continues, the increase will be structural. Senator Zaffini, the numbers of Europe are better or like those of other countries in the world. The problem is not just the amount of vaccines that are given; today it is much more important to be able to administer them. Today the logistics dimension has become the most pressing, so much so that with all donations vaccination rates in Africa remain very low. I share the analysis of the current complexity of Senator Zanda and the need to move forward towards political union. In fact, today we have discussed many things, ranging from foreign policy to the need to overcome the principle of unanimity, which today means inaction or not action. Faced with the challenges that Europe faces with unanimity, we do not react. It has been a less felt thing in recent years, when the protective umbrella of the Atlantic ally all in all helped us not to face these challenges. Today the geopolitical priorities of our ally are By changing. Other parts of the world are gaining in importance and, therefore, we must equip ourselves. And we only use it if we can decide and, in order to do so, we must overcome unanimity. This applies to foreign policy, defence policy and other challenges. As I said before, in these two areas, however, the need for clear, well-defined tasks and quick decisions is essential. Here's the thing: maybe you can't get to that point without a strong path to political union. One first wondered how one does not have a unanimous decision and resigned to the idea that my children go to fight and die by decision of another, because there is a majority. It is only possible if we are firmly moving towards political union, towards a union in which we all feel that we are members of the same State. [[Applause]] I agree with Senator Laforgia. When we remember what has happened over the last few months and say that the logistical effort - as I have just said - has been impressive, in fact we must remember the essential, fundamental role of women in both the pandemic and the subsequent assistance that has been provided to millions of families. And this is a subject for which I thank Senator Laforgia for having called back. As far as trade unions are concerned, there has been no punitive will on the part of the Government, so much so that next week - I believe Monday or Tuesday - we convened the first meeting to open a table on a possible pension reform: there is therefore a will to talk, to share, to listen, as we did on the decree-law on safety at work. One last point I would like to make concerning relations between the European Union, Ukraine and Russia. The impression of the latest exchanges that have taken place is that Russia wants to be involved; it is not on the verge of an irreparable decision. This is not a certainty, but clearly the fact that it was President Putin who sought telephone contact with President Biden suggests that there is a need to stay - as I said during the call with President Biden - hired. This also means that the European Union must be careful - and here I am referring in particular to the point made by Senator Candura - not to force things, to maintain this engagement and to demand, however, compliance with the Minsk agreements by both President Putin and President Zelensky. Of course, this is an evolving situation and, therefore, we must see - for example - whether President Putin's rhetoric takes on less marked tones; what happens with regard to the movement of troops on the border with the Donbass; what President Zelensky does about the recognition of the Donbass; what they both do about the exchange of prisoners. This is a changing situation, which must be observed, as irreparable decisions must be avoided. [[Applause]] Finally I want to wish you Merry Christmas and also happy holidays. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would also like to address to you, to all the Ministers and Undersecretaries, the wishes of Merry Christmas, on behalf of the entire Senate Assembly. [[Applause]] I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u42	Mr President, I am against the motion for a resolution No 1. I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 2. I am against the motion for a resolution. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u43	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u46	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, if it is true that we will have to live with the virus for a long time, we must aim to constantly improve the strategies of contrast. The new wave shows that the European countries, which have not followed the Italian example on the green pass even in the workplace and on paid swabs, are now the most affected. But the new wave is also saying that the weakest element is the low homogeneity of measures between European countries. Today, Europe is calling Italy to account for its border decisions, but perhaps it should ask why, while Italy was keeping a high guard against the virus, a large part of the forms of prevention was being dismantled elsewhere. More needs to be done on this, not by restricting itself to a linking policy, but by aiming at greater uniformity of measures. We need to take a step forward on the energy crisis and related geopolitical issues. For this reason, if it is good to strengthen resources against the expensive bills in order to counter upstream the increase in costs, we must, however, quickly approve the purchase and collective storage of gas in Europe. However, this crisis also presents other challenges: one in six Italian families is in a state of energy poverty, which means not only difficulties in paying their bills, but also inability to improve the energy efficiency of their homes with old-generation appliances and houses deserving of renovation. Then there is the most important game, the one for the decarbonisation of a country that has optimal conditions to exploit the potential of renewables. They serve on this structural incentives, but also innovative interventions, such as those for solar self-production and for energy communities where the energy produced is distributed among the most needy families. We need, of course, a firm response to those who are exploiting the energy problem and using migrants as an undue instrument of political blackmail against Europe. Again on this subject, if - on the one hand - Italy cannot be left alone - on the other - I agree with you when you say that a new approach is needed with humanitarian corridors and quotas established for migration as an opportunity. Countries such as Sweden, Germany and Austria, where the proportion of foreigners is much higher, show us that migration is not just a matter of security and public order. It is no coincidence that foreigners who land in Italy hope to reach those very nations. President Draghi, between the fourth pandemic wave, geopolitical turbulence and the need to protect the economic restart, the lesson that is drawn from it is always the same: the criticalities of our time become threats whenever Europe divides. They are faced and even transformed into opportunities for the construction of a new model of development when there is unity of purpose between the Member States; a lesson, this, which must be the basis of the rewriting of common rules with more integration and - as you say - majority voting; but also finding the right balance between solidarity and the fact that the debt we are contracting is not left as a pledge to future generations of Europeans. The phase we are going through is delicate: it requires political stability with a Government that completes its mandate, also with respect to the challenges of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. We need a Europe that, in addressing the challenges of the present, lays the foundation for the future, fueling the process of integration more and more. It is with all these wishes, Mr President, that the Group for the Autonomies wishes you a good summit, but also a merry Christmas and happy holidays! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u49	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention to this Parliament, Mr Draghi, also to the extent that it undertakes to respond in a timely manner to the speeches of individual senators. We are very grateful to you, because we believe that it is really a focus, first and foremost, on the institutions and on this Parliament. Thank you! And thanks for the fact that for once Italy is taken as a model and is admired inside and around the world for the effectiveness of the vaccination campaign and for the obligation of green certificate, measures that are being schooled internationally. Even the order of the last hours that requires the swab to the vaccinees arriving in Italy goes in the right direction. It is important that it be agreed with the European Union and communicated well, because it is the way to ensure security without again suspending mobility within the Union. We must continue to insist on vaccinations: an urgent task if we think that the average rate of vaccinations in Europe is much lower than in Italy, which is only 77 percent of adults. This means that one in four Europeans continues to pose a danger to themselves and others. Here we still need an important collective effort. Particular attention on the European side must also be paid to strengthening the Covax programme, because it is not imaginable to eradicate the contagion in our home if in the rest of the world the pandemic continues to rage. It is not by chance that the last variant has developed in Africa, that is, in that continent that holds 17% of the world's population, but that has so far had access to only 3% of the doses of vaccine available globally. This is why aid must be stepped up so that vaccinations can be carried out quickly in non-EU countries as well. On the agenda of the European Council, however, there are several thorny issues related to foreign policy, starting with the situation of refugees on the border between Belarus and Poland. It is clear that the Belarusian regime has deceived thousands of refugees, recruiting them in dozens of villages in Syria, Iraq and Yemen, promising them to enter Europe through Minsk. At the cost of thousands of dollars per person the refugees were brought on flights to the Belarusian capital; then they were transferred to the border with Poland with the promise to cross it, perhaps to find work in Germany or elsewhere; then they were used as a means of pressure against Europe, leaving them in the cold and their fate in front of the barbed wire. Such a strategy is inhuman, because it uses migrants towards the European Union in order to destabilize them. That is why we cannot tolerate such an attitude. There is no need to withdraw sanctions against Belarus. It is a good thing that flights departing from the Middle East to Belarus have ended and that European efforts are being made to organize the return of refugees to their countries of origin, with all the necessary difficulties. However, we cannot allow babies and pregnant women to starve after nights in the woods, in the cold, in an attempt to enter Europe. You are right, Mr Draghi, to set up European humanitarian corridors, although it is clear that the operation is orchestrated in art in order to put Europe in difficulty. Unfortunately, this is likely, with the support of Russia concerned, in turn, to weaken the Union, through, for example, the military threats to Ukraine, at the borders of which Russia has more than doubled the deployment of its own troops in recent months. It is a dangerous game what Moscow is playing; it may be just an intimidating action aimed at dissuading Kiev from wanting to enter NATO, but it is definitely a daring move. That is why Europe needs to ask Moscow to stop these provocations. Moscow cannot use a non-existent threat as a pretext to create a real threat. We want a European foreign policy that moves with sensitivity, but also with determination. That is why we believe that if there is no de escalation on the Russian side, further sanctions should be imposed. There is another way that Russia is using to bring Europe to its knees: it is cutting gas supplies to influence international policy, with the resulting sudden increase in energy costs. There have been no such high bills in Europe for about ten years now. That is why it is very positive that Italy has called for the creation of gas storage and that it has intervened at national level with the severe cost reduction. So, Mr President, the strategic compass is very good; the Italian insistence on migration is very good; the aim is to overcome the veto unanimously; the awareness is very good that we need a radical change to the Stability Pact. One invitation, Mr President: bring to the European Council also the need not to forget the Afghan question. On our part, too, I extend my sincere best wishes for good work and good holidays. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u52	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the next European Council has a very busy agenda, which is important for Europe and Italy. The fact that the current President-in-Office of the Council enjoys more personal prestige than his predecessors in recent years is certainly a good thing. Brothers of Italy asks you to weigh this prestige in favour of Italians in the various issues that will be dealt with, even when this may displease some of our European partners. On the question of pandemics and vaccines, Senator Zaffini spoke with the usual competence and eloquence; I just want to add the exhortation to avoid, in the race to be the first in the limitations, prohibitions and obligations, to get to the point of being wandered by the vice-president of the European Commission, as happened today, when Vera Jourova said that we have gone so far that we risk even the death of the green certificate, the so-called green pass, in the purpose for which he was born, that is to simplify travel within the European Union and not for the uses that have been made of it in our country. Coming to the very important point of the European Council's agenda, namely the economic issue, the Stability Pact was suspended - it seems - until 2022. This means that in a year's time we will be debating - hopefully in a more respectful way than what is happening in Parliament these days, in which Parliament is virtually excluded from a real possibility of affecting - a budget law for 2023 on which the risk of new austerity measures will be high, which could eliminate the results achieved so far, which still see us well below the level of gross domestic product in 2019 and with a debt of 150 percent, that is 300 billion more than two years ago, which will affect us and the next generations; provided that there are the next generations, because this is an emergency that is never mentioned. We will then reach the total of 150 percent of the GDP debt ratio, bearing in mind that ten years ago the last government of the center-right led by Silvio Berlusconi was dropped because we had reached the unsustainable level of 119 percent, so there is the risk that very soon we will ask for this. We therefore ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to make a commitment at European level to ensure that these austerity policies are overcome in the long term. We know in fact that these austerity policies at the time have even increased the debt, we know that there will be resistance from countries that have, for one verse, a lower level of debt than the Italian one and, for another, the convenience to keep Italy at a disadvantage, because they fear the competition of Italy, its companies and its workers. We ask you - regarding the economy - to defend the Italian specificity on the issue of maritime state property concessions, which today sees hundreds of companies and tens of thousands of jobs in danger. [[Applause]] Closely linked to the general economic issue is the question of energy, another point on the agenda of the European Council. It is a particularly delicate point, at a time when the price of oil has risen by 200 percent and that of gas by 30 percent compared to two years ago. This is an effect of the market. There are, however, also ecological transition policies, which have made a significant contribution: the price of certificates, the so-called carbon dioxide emission permits, which was below 10 euros until 2018, in September of this year was 60 euros and today is 80 euros, so there was an increase of 700 percent. The increase in the price of raw materials and certificates weighs everything not somewhere, but on the bills of families and companies. We thus become less competitive than those who, like China and other so-called emerging countries, do not need any permission to emit carbon dioxide. The very ambitious goals set at European level, including with the agreement of Italy, among other things allow our country a quantity of emissions per capita which is 28% lower than that of Germany, which also has nuclear power stations, and perhaps we should work on this too. The gap is mainly with China and other so-called emerging countries. The result seems to be that Italian productions will move to China, from which we will buy products, like photovoltaic panels, to reduce emissions, but those panels will be produced without emission limits. Therefore, the balance is likely to be: fewer jobs and less wealth produced in Italy, more jobs and more wealth produced in China and even more emissions. [[Applause]] We of the Brothers of Italy Group, as conservatives, can only be in favour of the conservation of the environment: this theme is very close to our heart. This is precisely why we ask to do what is needed by the environment and not how much does a passenger pat on the shoulder in international offices and then the expenses are paid by companies, workers and their families. Of course we are and will be firmly and harshly opposed to measures such as the European Union directive that we have been talking about these days, which prohibits the sale of houses and also their rental, if they are of an energy class below class E. [[Applause]] It's basically an expropriation, because it's not yours that you can't sell, buy or rent. We have achieved - as it seems - a victory for the fact that the European Union has taken a step backwards, but we are asking you, Mr President-in-Office, not only to fight against this measure - I am asking for attention, although I understand that the Minister is a very good source of distraction - but also, in general, to avoid these things coming out of nowhere. Measures like this are in fact designed in total secrecy - but we count that at least the Heads of Government are informed - and come out later. Such a measure must be discussed, reasoned, all the voices must be heard and it cannot suddenly come out of the Brussels offices. We also stress the importance of international cooperation, especially on cybersecurity and also on the issue of immigration. Of the 104,000 immigrants who arrived by sea in the European Union without any control, i.e. without permits and without knowing who these people are, 62,000 arrived in Italy. That seems to us to be worrying. You yourself said that these people, if we don't treat them well enough, will become our enemies. We are a little concerned about this, partly because there have also been some cases of terrorists who have arrived in this way. Italy has not signed that letter from 12 countries of the European Union asking the Union for help in managing immigration, possibly even with the provision of barriers of various kinds. You yourself, however, said a few days ago that immigration is out of control. I therefore believe that a reasoning between the two considerations must be made: we cannot only talk about welcome and solidarity, because of course those who arrive and have the right to stay here must be treated well, but we cannot accept anyone. Finally, the president of the Brothers of Italy, Giorgia Meloni, has said in recent days that he hopes for a Europe that is a political giant and not a bureaucratic giant. But a giant must have a heart, principles and foundations, otherwise it is a dangerous giant. In this sense, we call for Europe to respect the principles and beliefs of its inhabitants. Let us think about when Europe's architect, always in secret, the legislation that wanted to ban the use of references to Christmas, Mary and other names. Then there is that so-called influencer, who used to be an ambassador of the European Union - he seems not to be an ambassador, but he is a consultant to the European Parliament - who takes those shameful pictures, posing as Virgin Mary with a beard. After that, let us not be surprised if someone does not immediately have a positive feeling about Europe. You, Mr President, signed the very hard letter made by some Heads of Government against the law passed in Hungary prohibiting the distribution of homosexual or pornographic material to minors. Well, it is now done, but I have many doubts that that law is contrary to the European principles, to the Europe of Adenauer, De Gasperi and Schumann. But then, if that is the problem, let's also talk about the countries that allow the uterus to rent, which is a shame and a barbarism, in which children are a commodity and women are a means of production. [[Applause]] Having said that, we return the wishes of Merry Christmas, in the hope of an active work in Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u55	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, President Draghi and the Undersecretary for European Affairs Mr Amendola will go to the European Council with the majority of the political forces supporting the Government behind them by providing them with political guidelines within the resolution. But this does not take away the possibility, as a Democratic Party, of adding reflections that accompany our vote in favour. The first is that you go to represent Italy, at a time of difficulty when the pandemic bites again, with the awareness that you have done your homework. He rightly recalled, even with a bit of satisfaction (as it is right that it is), the difference in this year's data compared to last year's. The vaccination campaign with the third dose puts us more in the shelter, crossing the fingers, compared to other European countries. We certainly owe this to the work of Commissioner Figlio, whom you did well to remember; but behind Commissioner Figlio there are so many women and so many men that we want to thank here in this House, health and non-health, people of the Army, civil protection volunteers who have allowed all this. [[Applause]] From this point of view, I think we are giving an important signal with the Covax project, because it gives the idea of how Europe is also the Europe of solidarity, which wants to secure. And it is right to remember that Italy was among the first to push for this instrument and, at the same time, to work for the centralization of purchases and to build new rules at European level. Now we have to beat iron while it is hot and build the conditions for a health union; we are talking about it in the conference on the future of Europe. I think that the conditions for doing so at European level, as at European level, will also be the Eurosummit, which will be an opportunity not only to secure the banking union, to complete it and to give stability and security to the financial system, but at the same time, within a dynamic where we are called to deal with contradictions such as putting more money, making expansive policies and at the same time addressing the issue of inflation, which starts to run again with the increases we are witnessing, also to open a debate on the new Stability Pact and on the subject of State aid, changing paradigm, as you rightly pointed out. Changing the paradigm applies to the Stability Pact, which will have to become a sustainability pact, but it also applies to the issue of energy transition, where we face all the contradictions of modernity, change and globalisation that enters our homes and changes our lives. This means changing habits and making a frank reasoning, like what you have done, which is certainly not easy, on the issue of renewables and how to deal with contradictions within the transition, because it is clear that we still have to invest in gas, which is under very strong pressure and increases. This is a subject that not only concerns our country, but has geopolitical implications. I think we have done well to work together, even within Parliament, to find additional resources together with the Government on the expensive bills. Let me say that the Democratic Party would have seen with good eye the maneuver also on the medium-high incomes, because, at the time when more is asked to the state, more is asked also to who can contribute more. [[Applause]] From this point of view, it is certainly not enough for these intervention quotas, but we need structural measures at European level, with strategic storage, but also a reasoning on price and tariffs, which must be brought to European level. In the same way - I used to talk about geopolitical implications - the theme of Nord Stream 2 is of great delicacy, because with the Russian neighbor you have to find the way to dialogue. We appreciated your call and your confrontation with the Russian Premier; it is a situation in which Europe must be very firm in order to prevent the territorial integrity of Ukraine being called into question. At the same time we need to know that we need to find a way of dialogue and cooperation with Russia, because the issue of energy dependence exposes the Old Continent and from this point of view there can be no divisions. Nor can there be divisions from the point of view of migration. I would like to say something very clearly on behalf of the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party about something that has seen us witness an unspeakable spectacle on the border between Belarus, the Baltic States and Poland. The sanctions are right, it is right to be tougher and harder on Belarus, and that is also why dialogue with Russia is crucial. However, I think we should also explain to our European partners that we are different from the Belarusians, so the Poles too must be made very clear that there are rules in Europe, there are principles and values that must be respected. [[Applause]] We the children who risk dying on the border save them, because in this we are different from the others [[Applause]] Compared to the words you have said and which have echoed in this House on humanitarian corridors and also on irregular migration, we agree that enough is being said about ideological approaches on all sides. It is good to begin to reason on a topic of regular migration related not only to the system of the productive market (I think for example to the demands that come on the decree flows), but also from the point of view of welfare. Demographers teach us that the balance between birth and mortality, with respect to which we risk paying a very high price, since 2013 is no longer filled by migratory flows, so from this point of view we need a mature reasoning and in this sense we subscribe to the word "resource" that you use. In addition, we are also pleased with what we said a few years ago, when the same words were spoken to by those representatives of the Democratic Party and were looked at sideways, if not even by assaults on the Presidency, because we have also seen this. [[Applause]] I would therefore like to remind you of those who have spent these years on these issues and I would like to greet you on behalf of the Democratic Party. I refer to the President of the European Parliament, David Sassoli. [[Applause),]] which has worked for two and a half years to build the European dream and also that political union which you spoke about and on which we agree. I would therefore like to dedicate the final passage to the strategic compass. The rapid intervention force of the 5,000 people who will have to enrich the instruments available to the European Union is certainly fine. That strength, however, risks being a dead letter if we do not invest on a shared political agenda, because while we express solidarity and are close to the Baltics, to the Poles, we reason in terms of aid and support to those countries, sometimes we do not see the same solidarity and closeness when we ask for attention on the route of the Central Mediterranean, when we ask for more money on sub-Saharan Africa for cooperation: 6 billion for the Balkan route, not even a billion for Africa. We must explain to all European countries that we are going to discuss Schengen reform, secondary movements, but together we want to discuss compulsory redistribution, burden sharing and overcoming the Dublin regulation, because all these things are held together. There is no Europe à la carte. You win if you go forward together. However, in order not to be hypocrites and to not always answer with the phrase that we all have to work together to move from unanimity to qualified majority, we must also start to think about how to do this and to existing treaties we risk that this game cannot be played. The huge footbridge does not work, because we need unanimity; as for enhanced cooperation itself, the issues relating to the common foreign and defence policy, as the former Minister Pinotti knows, need a departure shared by all European countries. But you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, know very well just how difficult it was to find a common position when rockets were being fired from the Gaza Strip and Jerusalem, because Hungary raised its finger. We need an amendment of the Treaties, we need a convention: Scholz said it in the programme agreement that started the new Government. We should also say this forcefully from Italy: we need the amendment of the Treaties and, at the same time, the possibility of acting outside the Treaties. There are those who want to take up the dream of the founding fathers: faced with the great challenges, such as migration flows, climate change, the construction of a new international order, we need a united Europe and we need people who abandon their selfishness and invest in political Europe. So let's do it, either out of the treaties or with a convention. Who's he doing this to? It's France, Germany and Italy. Today, with the credibility of the President-in-Office of the Council, all this is possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u58	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). President Draghi, you have also addressed, in your reply, a number of issues on which we too are absolutely convinced and which we share. However, I would like to stress one issue in these few minutes: I think that we should not just do what we have done in this House and in this Parliament today, with this rite of debate before the European Council, but we should tackle the issue - not just in the seats of the relevant Commissions - with a real debate to prepare ourselves together as a Parliament and as a country for the meetings of the Conference on the future of Europe. We must also understand together how we rewrite a pact in Europe, because there is the issue of treaties, but there is one issue that is fundamental today and Italy has understood it first, President. We were the first to be hit by the pandemic and we first realized that we couldn't handle it alone, because nobody can do it on their own. Since we were the first in Europe to be hit, we immediately laid the foundations for Europe to tackle the pandemic crisis as a whole, even with a new solidarity mechanism. We have continued to do so, with the successes we record today, also from the point of view of vaccination; let us not forget the green pass, which had also been criticized by many countries. Many of the instruments we have put in place today are replicated and used by other European countries. The question is that nobody can save themselves; in the face of the pandemic crisis we touch with hand what this means, but the same goes for the crisis resulting from the climatic emergency. You spoke of a digital transition; well, in the face of these emergencies and crises that we have to go through, we must say - this is the meaning of our mission now in Europe - that we must rewrite the pact, which does not just mean rewriting the Stability Pact, which has now been consumed alone and has produced some damage, even before the crises. Today we need to do this, as can be seen from the story of the pandemic: if we do not fully apply solidarity with the poorest countries, if we do not fully overcome the issue of patents, we do not save ourselves, because now it is Omicron, in two months it will be "zeta" and other variants will come. The point is solidarity and the ability to manage crises. The climate crisis is even stronger, but in the meantime we cannot say - as Brothers of Italy continues to do - that so much others continue to act as they want; we in Europe have the possibility to say that we are working on this, because Next generation EU is also important, not only for the recovery after the pandemic crisis, but also for the future. This is the way we have to move on. We must understand that it is necessary to implement the model adopted to deal with the pandemic crisis even in the face of the climate crisis and arrive at the energy talk. President Draghi, structural intervention is undoubtedly to focus on a renewable energy transition: that is the point, because the renewable energy model is a democratic model, which allows us to free ourselves from geopolitical disturbances and blackmail. Of this we must be absolutely convinced and certain and on this we need an effort. Let me say, Mr President, that we do not need to talk in vain about the future of nuclear power; we need to do, to intervene, to invest and to be all responsible for democratic management of the energy transition. In conclusion, we share all the points of the resolution, although - I mean, Mr Draghi - we do not like the reluctance that Poland, for example, does not even make humanitarian organisations intervene at the border of Europe to help and help people. We didn't like this at all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u61	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Draghi, once again Forza Italia appreciated your approach, but first of all we want to join in the mourning you expressed this morning for the nine innocent victims of the Ravanusa explosion, thinking of Selene, Joseph and their child Samuel for all. So much of your speech, Mr President-in-Office, has been devoted to the subject of the pandemic, because we understand very well that this is still a very topical situation. We know, in fact, that the extension of the state of emergency is not a political fact, but stems from the need not to lower the guard, not to lose the advantage achieved. The Covid still exists, in all its variants. At last we are managing it, managing and not suffering, also and above all thanks to the commissioner structure combined with all the medical, health, scientific staff, research and effective vaccination campaign, today extended also to minors, because even minors get sick, even minors go to hospital and even minors are factor of contagion. For this reason, President Draghi, the Government must continue and intensify the correct information campaigns to reassure families, to help the fearful to overcome fears. I repeat, we cannot lose this advantage right now, which is saving lives every day, which is making us return to normal. The state of emergency has allowed to support and help every economic and social sector and now needs a soft landing, so that the conditions are created to make a transfer of deliveries with a progressive that accompanies the recovery with order and without shakes, also because to the health emergency related to the Covid have been added the economic emergencies that we well know, related to the issues of energy supplies and raw materials. As our coordinators Tajani and Bernini continue to insist, we must also intervene selectively on the accounting records that are incumbent on Italians. [[Applause]] , helping those who at this particular moment are unable to meet their debts with the tax, not because they are defaulting, but because they cannot. Allow me once again, on behalf of President Bernini, who has already done so publicly and the whole Forza Italia Group, to thank General Figlio once again. [[Applause]] , which is now a family figure for Italians, for his dedication, his competence and organizational skills, but, above all, for his profound human qualities. We congratulate you on your well-deserved appointment as commander of the operational command of interforce summit, the COVI. Let us not forget, as you well recalled, President Draghi, that the good management of the pandemic and the massive vaccination campaign, as Forza Italia has always supported, in this form and in these ways, are allowing Italy to recover and resume, bringing our country, from the victim country, to become a country of good practices. The Italian model is taken for example at European level: vaccines and green passes; vaccines and green passes as an instrument of freedom from the disease, in order to move, meet and work. We will never tire of repeating this and, as President Casellati said, if Italy is before so many other countries today, we do not owe it to luck, but to the choices made in recent months, also thanks to the decisive behavior of the citizens, which you have rightly thanked. [[Applause]] Let us think only of the most topical issue, that of Christmas. In Italy we have been able to realize the markets, allow regular inflows into shops, restaurants, hotels, to increase the capacity on buses to 100%, while in many other European countries all this is still precluded and restrictions persist. I am thinking of countries such as Germany, Austria, Denmark, Belgium and the United Kingdom. If this pandemic has taught us anything, it is to believe more in ourselves and in the reaction force of our country. We're second to none. [[Applause]] We were pleased to listen to the data of our production and distribution of vaccines across borders, which reminds us that we must widen our horizon, becoming protagonists of the worldwide vaccination support, towards the weakest countries, because no country is an island and the pandemic must disappear from the face of the earth, if we want to save us all. This summit to which President Draghi is about to take part, albeit in transition, is an important opportunity, which must not be wasted. As far as transition is concerned, an important issue that will be addressed is the ecological and energy transition, we know that. We will talk about the rise in energy prices, especially for dependent countries, as we are still. The exponential and sudden increase of the bills, while we are facing the green revolution, made of conversions and new formations for the enterprises, is proving devastating and the same for the families. Attention: Europe projected towards climate neutrality is the same that is anchored to the world of fossil energies. Therefore, the system must be approached with intelligence and graduality. Well, the support measures you have outlined to lift families and small businesses from an unsustainable burden. Let us think about the issue of gas and renewable sources. Research, which is ahead in Italy, especially to open up to the new clean nuclear, is not wasted time. Well the creation of integrated storage of gas stocks to cope with unexpected increases and the willingness to quickly implement the third gas package. The current situation in the electricity market is not perfect, but we will work on it. The European Union must increase network flexibility, including storage, interconnectors, smart grids, demand management. Then there is the issue of Russia and the United States. I mean, there's a lot of them. I have heard that we will put every initiative in place to promote the relaxation of relations. Information and training to overcome NIMBY's syndrome and fears related to non-knowledge and certainty about ways to go, with a state and a friendly government. Forza Italia is a convinced European movement, but it is also a liberal movement, which stands alongside the companies, the productive categories, the world of work generated by them. We will win the challenge of ecological transition if we manage to govern processes without leaving anyone behind: workers and entire business chains. To indicate peremptoryly, as the Interministerial Committee for the Transition did, in 2035 the term for the sale of cars with combustion engine sounds like an ultimatum and not an opportunity. Our concern is to understand how it will come to that date, what guarantees will be given to workers and what will happen to an industrial sector of excellence. In the same way, we continue to ask you, Mr Draghi, to keep your attention to the subject of the European Commission's communication with regard to the possibility, fortunately withdrawn, also thanks to the intervention of Forza Italia and the PPE, of blocking sales and rents for the buildings they consume. We'll keep fighting. The other great challenge is the definitive transition from a system of linear economy to one of circular economy, aiming to make Italy from a country poor in raw materials as it has always been to a country rich in second raw materials. I would like to close on the issue of immigration. His human approach, but rational, is acceptable. We must enter into a great deal of agreement with Africa, especially in the North, including renewable energy, and I remember Mr Berlusconi's Marshall plan. I would like to close by repeating a point that we consider to be fundamental that embraces every subject. I am referring to human capital. I think we're on the right track. President Draghi, Forza Italia shares the text of the resolution signed by the leaders of the majority who support it and, therefore, in announcing our vote in favour we invite you to move forward on the path undertaken because the country needs care. You keep treating him like he's doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u64	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr Draghi, we very much appreciated your reply, even more than the initial speech, which essentially took up what we heard this morning in the Chamber of Deputies' speech. With his reply, he took into account what the senators said in the debate, and this is a good thing in terms of political intelligence, because today listening is even more important than giving lessons, as someone does. [[Applause]] We need to listen to the citizens, to Parliament in its dynamics and to give answers that are consequental. In his reply we found a response to the positions listed and highlighted by the Senators of the League Group who spoke before me. We shall vote in favour of the resolution which we have drawn up together with the majority which gives it precise political guidelines through which we can fully represent Italy's interest in Europe. In his speech he expressed that the commitment of the Government does not lack courage and determination in a difficult context. We are fully aware of this and this is the same reason why we are still telling you to move on. Go on as long as there is need and give all the answers that the country expects, without neglecting any, starting from what concerns us very much about the tax burden that our fellow citizens find themselves having to support everything by a blow because delay after postponement the deadlines have arrived, but the economy that gives significant signs of restart does not yet put our companies and our fellow citizens in a position to fully face those deadlines. This fact must also be borne in mind in the European context and it must be postponed, whether it is accounting records, or the most pressing tax deadlines. Mr President, you need to bring our voice to a serious problem within the European context with regard to today's energy costs, the costs that methane supplies now bring to both our fellow citizens and businesses. The intervention of the Government is very important and is appreciated in its dimension to try to preserve as much as possible the purchasing capacity of our fellow citizens, but there is a dimension that cannot escape the European context. I am referring to the enormity of the burden of costs for the production system. Today, our small, medium-sized and large enterprises and public administrations have to bear costs that have exorbitated more than 100% compared to the beginning of this year. Of course, 8 billion is a very important intervention. Its previous statement is full of realism, but precisely for this reason it is necessary that there be a consequent action of the Government, because we cannot resign ourselves - and I read on the contrary its statement - to a structural increase in the cost of energy, if, at the same time, we do not also put in place a structural revision of its sources of production [[Applause]] , with an approach - and I say this to colleagues who make up the majority and also the opposition - that cannot and must not be ideological, because the numbers are numbers, that are written with the red pen, the black pen or the blue pen. I repeat that numbers are numbers and we need everything, except an ideological approach to these things. We therefore need pragmatism and solutions that do not isolate us within the European context, but instead see us as protagonists. If new bilateral agreements, such as what has been done with France in recent days, are to be concluded in order to achieve this protagonism, then, Mr President-in-Office, this is in the interests of Italy. We have all too often become accustomed to that refrain for which we must make decisions in the interests of Europe. We need to map the way and if with us there are also other countries, well: awaken this identity and bring within the European context our needs, not as marginal, but as essential to the industry and the economic mechanism of the Old Continent. There are things that we cannot escape, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, such as the statements that today have brought the attention of politics to the statements made by the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition (ISCED) in recent days, which seriously endanger the future of the Italian car industry. Be careful, we are not talking about a marginal thing, but about something that has always, since the post-war period, dragged economic development and growth into the country. Attention to European drunkenness in ideological terms, we do not need it; instead, we need pragmatism. We need pragmatism, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we need it very much in the European Parliament, in the fight against the pandemic. Again, we do not see a European strategy, but, on the contrary, press releases that take Italy a bit to the ears for its choices, which can be more or less shared - we will see ex post in their effects - but certainly between the lack of doing and the choice to do, we prefer who chooses to do. Too often we have seen the European Union, as you correctly pointed out, fail in its decision and fail to make effective decisions on both foreign policy and economic policy (an economic choice made late is worse than an unmade economic choice), and once again in terms of countering the pandemic. Mr President, we are confident that the actions that the Government is putting in place will give these results and we are also aware that it is up to us to make some effort, perhaps in terms of form, always appreciating when the Government comes first in Parliament and then takes the decisions, but having clear that in exceptional situations we must give maximum availability. Even in this circumstance we are here to confirm that. However, Mr President, you will also be able to make notes, having made it quite clear that support for your Government is not an excessive commendation, but helping it, even with points of view that can be dissonant, to improve its action. Mr President, allow us then to point out that it certainly cannot be a priority for the Government to double the regularisation of illegal immigration; it cannot be the same with respect to the priorities that Italians have towards a system that is leaving them at home - unfortunately we see from the surveys that many of them do not deserve it - with the income of citizenship [[Applause]] , and then wants to import new cheap labor. This is not a fair and fair equation for those who deserve hospitality, because it comes from war zones and must be protected, neither against our young people, who are discouraged from what is recognized in the Constitution as the fundamental of values: work. Only in work are equality, brotherhood and freedom. On these principles we are sure, Mr President, that your action within the European context will be pragmatic. As we remain within the context of the issues that you will be discussing, we also know that there will be attention to foreign policy. Here again, our connection to the Atlantic framework cannot be called into question, even though there have been speeches in this House that have winked at China and those economies that are waiting for us to decline in order to be able to undermine and bend us. You have no doubt about keeping us anchored in the Atlantic framework, President Draghi. I should like to finish very simply. I believe that, not surprisingly, at the end of his speech he received a big applause. It may seem like an applause of circumstance; well, President, I renew your wish for Merry Christmas to the House, having made it quite clear that in this wish there are also statements of principle and identity that may be more politically relevant than all those we have previously made. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u67	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, Mr Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, in these two years we have made important and conscious choices, always based on scientific evidence. We have done everything to put an end to a health tragedy that has also become economic and social. We weren't ready for this new virus, which we still don't know and which has done more than 5 million deaths worldwide (135,000 in our country alone, as you recalled, President), many of which were health workers. We learned at our expense what loneliness is and we realized that resilience can do miracles. Now we are at the last mile of this, which is a marathon and not a 100-meter race, as we have often said, in which we have always been guided by science, which has managed to arrive at a vaccine in record times, and we, President Draghi, as you said, must take every measure to prevent the sacrifice from being in vain. So the objectives must be the ones we have pursued so far: to save lives, keep the pressure on hospitals low and mitigate the economic effects of this pandemic. We all want to be out of this nightmare, but the variants that continue to emerge require caution. There are still too many not vaccinated, there are too many difficulties for poor countries to access vaccines. The 5 Star Movement has long been calling for revision of the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the TRIPs Agreement and liberalisation of patents. [[Applause]] It was 1962, when a Polish doctor, named Bruce Sabin, gave up the patent against polio vaccine, that vaccine that was administered with a sugar lump and changed the history of humanity. To those who asked him why he gave up that compensation, Sabin replied: the Nazis killed me two beautiful grandchildren and then I decided to give this gift to all the children of the world, because there is no man more powerful than who turns his enemy into a brother. [[Applause.]] Vaccines, President, are the most powerful tool we have to keep the health risk low. Even the Nobel Prize winner for Economics Joseph Stiglitz said that there is no economic recovery if we do not reduce the health risk. You, Mr President, often say that there is no economic recovery without social cohesion. So how can we strengthen this social cohesion? In my opinion, using three instruments. The first is the transparency in information that we give to citizens in order to gain more and more their trust. The second is participation, because citizens must become actors in public health choices. The third is the protection of common goods, hindering the logic of profit at all costs. Even Pope Francis, in the spring of 2020, asked economists gathered in Cernobbio not to sacrifice to finance the dignity of the person and to imagine a new economy of caring for the person, an economy of care. [[Applause]] Today, with these terms, the protection of common goods is at the heart of the European political agenda, and the 5 Star Movement has played a decisive role in this process of change. The 5 Star Movement has convinced Europe to move from obsolete instruments, such as the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), to new investment instruments, fueled by common and shared debt [[Applause]] , which are the heart of the Next Generation EU and PNRR. The Stability Pact has been suspended, we are talking about overcoming the fiscal compact, we are talking about centralising the purchase of vaccines and we are talking about minimum wages, the revision of the Dublin Treaty, the common defence of borders and investment in renewable sources. If we had had had had this vision of the future for some time now, we should not be in trouble today, for example, for the increase in bills. In fact, the data from the UK Research Center and the World Bank tell us that if we invest a billion in fossil fuels, we can create 9,000 new jobs. If we invest the same billion in renewables, we create 18,000 jobs, so double. And so this is the way: to put the protection of the environment, health, work and common goods at the heart of European policies. The 5 Star Movimento has a clear vision of the future, is at the forefront of these issues and has brought awareness on them at an international level. Thanks to the 5-star Movimento, measures have been introduced as an 110% superbonus, which we are expanding and strengthening in the budget law and which should be exported at European level, because it is driving the economic growth of this country that this year affects 6%. [[Applause]] It has created 150,000 new jobs, 70,000 new yards, 30,000 new businesses. The 5 Star Movimento has started the first energy communities, which are places of production, consumption and sharing of energy. Mr President, we firmly believe that the Italian Government must continue to promote this path of cultural change in Europe, which places solidarity, responsibility, sharing, collaboration and the protection of human rights at the centre. The government must be the promoter of that set-up of lessons learned from the pandemic you were talking about, which was a process accelerator and started the digital transition (which is not only using new technologies but improving services), the ecological transition (which means reducing consumption to increase well-being) and the cultural transition (which puts the person at the centre). If we all learn to sacrifice a little of ourselves, our fears, our ideologies and our selfishness, we can strengthen our common goods, Europe and Italy. This is the vision contained in the majority resolution, on which the Movimento 5 Stars will vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u69	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u70	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, this speech comes from the left-wing opposition. It is not comfortable to be out of the cognitive bias that governs us and to get out of the general narrative, from this paternalistic pacing narrative. Personally, I would simply have to believe in Mr Bonino's full half glass, believe in the Europe of which it is said, suddenly becoming the Europe of the peoples, and not see, but we must resist, defend ourselves from the mellifluent words and look at the facts, see the trickle-down economic policies, which increase the differences, the repressive policies, divisive and falsely persuasive, and see with a trained eye the calm negationism on climate change and the environment. We have not done enough - and this is a fact - to remove patents on vaccines. We can do as many vaccination doses as we want forever, vaccinate children and even babies, but, until the vaccines are free access to the whole world, we will never be out of it, since we can't put boundaries, raise walls, fire hydrants, sink into the sea or build barriers with barbed wire against the virus. We cannot do this against the virus, as we are doing with immigrants. [[Applause]] Europe is doing its dirty work to others on the Balkan borders and borders with Belarus, quietly condemning, but agreeing on the European Asylum Pact, with the intention of keeping everyone out of our rich and secure world. [[Applause]] Is this your resilience? What we have to do is defend the principle of asylum at any cost, defend international law and defend the values that have formed us under any conditions, our traditional values. Until we do so, as long as there are thousands of deaths in the Mediterranean, as long as there are centers of stay for repatriation (CPR) in Italy, where young people die, as in Ponte Galeria, where we come from the horror of the death of young Tunisian Wissem Ben Abdel Latif, we will never be the Europe we tell ourselves to be. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u72	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u73	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). A President of the Council without a popular mandate, the Head of a deeply technical and elitist government, supported by a majority that betrayed the political vote of 23 March 2018, goes to Europe, that is, to the place less representative of the interests of the citizens, to speak on behalf of the Italians, at least as he says. Italexit for Italy does not give it this mandate, because you did not accept, among other things, our motion for a resolution calling for the blocking of vaccinations for children and the rejection of any temptation of compulsory vaccination. As far as we are concerned, you will go to the European Council to defend the interests of Big Pharma and the multinational financial power that today focuses its cards on the energy switch. Other than the normality of Christmas: you are vilely inciting Italy with the propaganda of the good against the bad guys. The more time passes, the more the subjection of the European Union and governments to Big Pharma becomes apparent. An inquiry conducted by the "Finncial Times" with Channel 4 demonstrates, hand in hand, the asymmetry negotiated between the institutions and the American multinational that sells a vaccine conceived in Germany and paid also with the money of the German Government. An investigation that demonstrates the malice of those who have kept you in check: you have allowed them to do what they wanted, from the secrecy of contracts to total malpractice, passing by the hardness of negotiations on the price of sera. You said that the transfer of national sovereignty served to build a strong Europe in globalisation. Instead, once again we have proof that multinationals and finance are stronger than your European slum, wolf with citizens and sheep in the face of the new world order. With vaccines, Big Pharma demonstrates the power of listed companies. Not surprisingly, part of the profits of the drug multinationals serves for lobbying activities in European fora. By the way: do we make a serious investigation commission on the Covid emergency, the real data, who is paid by Big Pharma, the scandal of the masks and much more, or are you afraid that they will find out? You are gaining the budgets of that 1% who devours the remaining 99 percent and do so with the usual propaganda of immunity, which does not exist. The governor of Italy, Mario Draghi, goes to Europe with the culture of Goldman Sachs, and those who support him hold him steady to this business and boss logic, so much so that, apparently, Draghi for the maneuver will not even be seen in the Chamber. Congratulations Governor, Merry Christmas! That said, to do the interests of multinationals in Europe will not go with the mandate of Italexit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u74	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Granato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, Bonino, Nannicini, Garavini, Steger and De Petris to vote by vote on the motion for a resolution No 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Paragone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u77	Senator Abbot, I ask you to hold the time of your intervention. In fact, two requests for intervention have been announced by the Mixed Group, although according to the rules that we have established, there should only be one. ABATE (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Consorzio regionale per le attività produttive (Corap), former Agency for Industrial Development (ASI), is an instrumental public economic entity of the Calabria Region, which is entrusted with functions of development and valorization of the productive and industrial areas and the exercise of all the functions already assigned to the individual consortia for the development of the industrial areas. Among its prerogatives was also the development of the industrial area of Corigliano-Rossano, former Corigliano Calabro, and between 2000 and 2004 in the territory of Corigliano-Rossano dozens of farmers were expropriated of their citrus groves for public utility. As compensation, he offered a ridiculous price, even below the agricultural price list. For this reason a dispute arose for the right determination of the price, defined only in 2014 with the judgment of the Court of Appeal of Catanzaro. The Corap opposed the above judgment for dilatory purposes, but in any case the Court of Cassation confirmed it, crystallizing the right of credit of the expropriates and therefore the relative compensation. The Region Calabria, instead of being on the side of the owners, is trying to liquidate the Corap agency, but the liquidation has been judged illegitimate by the Constitutional Court in 2021. In this dispute the Mise has intervened, which would be helping the Region to arrive to the liquidation; if this were to happen, the Calabria Region would not pay the expropriations, as the liquidation will follow the rules of the par condicio creditorum. However, the assets of the Corap are not large and the compensation of the expropriation will follow the rules of the chirografary credit, with sure mockery for the farmers expropriated and never compensated for by now twenty years. It is an absurd situation and for this reason I will question Minister Giorgetti, to understand if he is really aware of the situation and the risks that the workers of the Corap are facing, but above all also the former owners never compensated for the land expropriated by now twenty years, who are waiting for the right compensation, with so much of pronunciation from the administrative justice. The question must be resolved in the field of existing legislation, because if former owners were not paid, in addition to representing an injustice, this incident would create a dangerous precedent in the matter of expropriation. That is to say, as things stand, the State could expropriate and trample on a right of ownership, protected by the Constitution itself, without recognising an amount to the expropriation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u80	ANGRISANI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the agro-Sarnese-nocerine (and precisely in the outskirts of Scafati) it happens that, because of the floods that have been repeated for decades, it has become more and more frequent that a living community, indeed survives, without being able to enjoy its rights, starting with freedom of movement, until the right to proper assistance. A few days ago, an 80-year-old, Maddalena Mandile, a resident of Scafati, died, because the rescues would have been slowed down due to the high water due to the rains (suffers that most likely could have saved her life). Even because of the flooded road, even the hearse had difficulty taking the body away. This is something that we all need to think about. The area and these floods have in the past been the subject of my question in the Senate, as well as further reminders in the Region. In that area the sewage works must be completed immediately and a dredging of the canals must be carried out; the Campania Region, which is the competent body, must intervene as soon as possible, so that the scenes depicting the residents forced to use the boat to reach their home do not repeat. You can't die like this; you can't even live or, better, survive. We cannot, because the residents must be protected. We cannot allow such tragedies to take place in the silence of the institutions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you must know that all the agro sarnese-nocerino suffers from these hardships. The causes are clear and are to be found in the lack of care and safety of the territory. However, perhaps not everyone knows that, with every rain a little'more intense, the waters coming from the Vesuvius descend to the valley, flooding punctually also the station of Scafati and causing the interruption of public transport on iron in a route that goes from neighbouring cities, such as Pompeii, Poggiomarino, Sarno and Torre Annunziata, to Naples. Finally, the state we represent and the Campania Region can no longer hesitate. Action must be taken as soon as possible and sewage works must continue to be shipped. I hope that the regional representatives of all political parties will listen to my appeal. Each of us has a duty to be close to those who live these hardships and for my part I express full solidarity with the citizens, families, traders and workers of the agro-Sarnese-Nocerino and I add that they are not alone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u81	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-387.ana.u82	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 20 December, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (20.25 p.m.).
