ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1662 and 311. The speakers, Senators Modena, Rossomando and Unterberger, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Modena.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u5	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we come to the definition of a path that has certainly been very long and complex, which - I remember - began even in March 2020 and for which the Commission has held a considerable number of hearings. A text was also drawn up, under another Government and therefore under another Minister (Minister Bonafede), on which amendments were tabled, on 16 June, by the Government chaired by Mario Draghi. I realize that this is a debate which has very technical characteristics. However, I would like to try to answer a first question that my colleagues have rightly asked me in the past days. What kind of goal has been set and what has been achieved? I think this is important to remind all of us. In the speech with which Draghi gained confidence in the Chambers, in about fourteen lines, he explained clearly, with reference to justice, that the actions to be carried out must be those that are placed in the context of European expectations. Draghi also said that the European Commission had taken note of improvements on the part of the country, but that it urged us to improve the efficiency of the civilian, the tax functions, the backwardness and the management of workloads, reducing differences from court to court. In those lines, in essence, we moved. We have always thought - someone even wanted to degrade him - that we had to rush to make the blessed reforms of the civil and criminal exclusively because they had to arrive the money of the recovery fund. I think this is the right opportunity to give three or four evaluations and explanations. We must take three points into account with regard to the recovery and the cards that Parliament has to date. The first issue is the general objectives: the recovery calls for legal reforms, an increase in resources and allocations and, above all, calls for a reduction in the backlog of the civil process by 65% at first instance, 55% on appeal by the end of 2024 and 90% on all levels of judgment by mid-2026, with an overall reduction of 40% on the duration of the trials. In the fact-sheets, which we know have had their iter - first Parliament gave directions and then, of course, we had recovery - it is clear that four strands must be followed in order to achieve these objectives: alternative instruments for resolving disputes, selective intervention on the trial, executions and family law. In what ways? Focusing the preparatory phase, reducing the decisions taken in collegial composition by the magistrates and defining more precisely the decision-making phase, and more. In the recovery tabs we clearly read that, in order to do this, it is also important to implement the office of the process and strengthen its capabilities. To do this we have 2.3 billion at our disposal. I would also like to remind the many who say that this is done for recovery money, that it is subsidies and not loans and you can also look at the latest MEF cards. That is 2.3 billion of the so-called 'lost fund' and must therefore be treated with some respect. Then there are the digital infrastructures, whose funds (equal to 140 million) are borrowed, and then there is the whole system of building structures. The translation of all this in terms of personnel means 1,600 young people, 750 specialists, 300 graduates, 1,650 graduates (the calls for the first half have already been published and expire shortly), 1,500 positions of expert coordination. Parliament, the Commission, the Secretary-General and the Minister have worked with this general framework in mind. And that is particularly what - if I may say so - I tried humbly to keep in mind - certainly wrong, but according to my possibilities - because it was the commitment made at the time when we voted on the President and at the time when, on the basis of that, we decided to do this job. What kind of text do we have? Since we cannot analyze everything or finish it in two days, I will speak for titles, addressing some fundamental issues. The text intervenes, not by chance, on the ADRs (Alternative Dispute Resolution), i.e. on alternative solutions to disputes and here there is a first point, which is perhaps the most important part. Mediation in fact - and those who work in the courts know perfectly well - has the characteristic of not being very often used, because it does not have advantages for the parties; while here it is structured precisely to give advantages for the parties, from a point of view of tax credits, as well as with reference to the registration tax. I have to say that the Commission, also thanks to the rewordings proposed by many colleagues - let me mention, among others, Mr Dal Mas - has rightly decided and identified the instrument of the single text to give an order to all the ways in which an alternative resolution of disputes is being carried out for the very simple reason that there are not only mediation, negotiation and arbitration: for bills - for example - there is a system that works very well at Adiconsum; there is banking arbitration; there are many tools, so it is good that it becomes a sort of code. Then, thanks also to the amendments that have been reworded, revised and shared - there have been amendments by all the Commissioners, but let me mention once again those of my colleagues Caliendo and Dal Mas - for transparency in the appointment and selection of the referees. Finally, changes have been made to the process. Therefore, by proceeding with titles, the interventions concerned alternative solutions from a negotiating point of view and arbitration, in particular, as well as changes to the process (i.e. first instance, appeal, cassation and rite of work). We have also spoken about technical consultants with a very important and, let me say, innovative standard. The interventions also concerned executions, the prosecution office, the family court and the whole game of the so-called telematic trial. I wanted to give titles because, in the course of the debate over the last few months, the debate has very often focused on some aspects: the preclusions - for example - or the judge of peace. I would like here to invite you to see the measure as a whole, because it has logics that follow the objectives I remember and that have to do with the recovery plan. As I have already said, the interventions focused specifically on the alternative solutions of disputes; the sectoral and specific changes of the trial; the executions; the office of the trial; the family court; but, above all - it has never been mentioned, but it is very important - the part concerning the telematic, because from this there is certainly a remarkable turning point, and the part concerning the way in which notifications are made. I read the opinion of the MSC this morning - as you know, it has expressed itself on the original text of the Government, and not on the one amended by the Commission - which deals with some of the problems that have arisen. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I will try not to go too far, but I would like to focus on a number of issues. On the basis of substantial concepts, a number of aspects have been highlighted: with this reform - I say this because the vote was extremely critical - two preconceptions have been overcome - in my opinion. The first is that the cause of the length of the trials is that there are too many lawyers. A clear indication has emerged from the Luiso committee, namely that the bottleneck is the decision: there are not enough judges to be able to decide; the decision stage becomes the bottleneck - this is what is written in the Commission's texts - which must be passed. The second question is that this reform, unlike many others - almost all the others of justice - is not at zero cost, and money does not come from the recovery fund - as someone might think - and they serve to achieve the goals. But on this reform the Ministry has allocated the resources, so much so that - in my opinion - one of the reasons why the mechanisms of the Budget Commission are unclear to the members of the Justice Commission is because we always do zero-cost reforms, and therefore we never deal with the budget. In fact, in this case there is money, and there are also several, between mediation and funds for the family court and everything else. The question is as follows: did we succeed with this type of work to meet the needs of the country, on the one hand, and above all to the commitments made in terms not only of abstract recovery, but also towards the Government? My answer and the answer that we have tried to give, although among a thousand issues certainly, difficulties and problems, is yes. It is an affirmative answer in the sense that we have tried to adapt these objectives to the reality of the Italian courts, with a particularity, with which I conclude, namely that, when we did this type of work, we also had the opportunity to recover. This is a great lesson that I would like to give to the House at the end of this speech; if anything, I reserve the right to take up some of the concepts in reply. In this text we have delegated legislation that not only concerns the family court - which is important - but above all recovers everything positive there was during the period of the pandemic. With the pandemic in the civilian, a number of new, different forms have been experimented: the written hearing, some remote hearings, the oath of CTU without the need to come to the hearing, resulting in a waste of time. This heritage, on which there has been a unanimous positive judgment, is recovered. And this is also - in our opinion - a relevant teaching. I would like to thank very much the President of the Commission, the Government, the Undersecretary Macina, my colleagues and, in particular, our leader Caliendo for the effort he has made to identify a point of fall in the most disputed part, that of decadence. I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again and say frankly that, although everything is always perfect, I thank them because this work for me has been an honour that I hope to have fulfilled in a manner worthy of what they deserve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u6	I call the rapporteur, Senator Unterberger.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u7	Mr President, the most debated and passionate part of the Commission has certainly been the reform of the family process. I believe that this is the best part of the process with the introduction of very important innovations for greater protection of all parts of the process. Finally, the procedures for children born in and out of marriage are unified, receiving the provisions of Article 30 of the Constitution which, until now, has not been fully implemented because of the much faster and much more protective procedures for children born in constancy of marriage. A great achievement is the birth of the family court, where specialized judges will finally deal with the whole matter, putting an end to the existence of two parallel tracks with a complicated system of attribution of competences. It is significant that the proposal has come from all the parliamentary groups and that the amendment has been adopted unanimously. Important measures have also been envisaged for women who are victims of violence ranging from the abbreviation of procedural terms to the strengthening of protection measures, Article 342 of the Civil Code, to the prohibition of imposing mediation on those who attach episodes of violence. There is a new arrangement in our system that ensures that episodes of violence have a bearing on the visit rights of violent parents. In particular, if the child refuses to meet the violent parent, the judge will be obliged to listen to him urgently to ascertain that the reasons for the refusal lie in having witnessed episodes of violence. I would like to highlight this provision strongly in a case law which for too long has been guided by the unhealthy idea that it is better a violent father than no father. Thanks must be given to the tenacious commitment of my colleague Valente, President of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide. Then there is another rule that represents a Copernican revolution with respect to the prevailing orientation of the family as an island that the sea of law must only lapped. From now on, to resolve a dispute before a judge in constancy of marriage, it will no longer serve the request of both spouses, but that of only one party will suffice. In particular, a spouse may ask the judge for recognition of a share of the spouse's income if, in order to take care of the family, he has given up his job. This provision concerns all housewives in total economic dependence on their spouse and without any possibility of claiming part of their income except in the context of separation. There are also important innovations for the separated fathers, on which Mr Pillon has spent a great deal. For those who complain about forms of foreclosure in the relationship with the children there is a timely intervention by the judge who, once established, may impose financial penalties for each day of non-compliance with the provision. Before concluding, Mr President, I would like to thank all the members of the Commission, the President, the rapporteurs for the sometimes intense but almost always constructive discussions. Of course, I would like to thank the officials for their commitment and the great professionalism with which they have supported our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u8	I call the rapporteur, Senator Rossomando.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u9	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments, which are facilitated by the speeches of the co-rapporteurs, in order to make the House involved in a work which has been very intense because of the complexity of the matter and also because we feel that we are transferring a little bit to everyone the great responsibility of carrying out reform interventions on civil justice, which is not always so at the heart of the news, while in fact it is a central point of the relationship between the citizen and the State. And it is even more so when we get out of this terrible pandemic that will certainly change the way we do business and economic relations. There is indeed a need for a system that works to support recovery and legal certainty in economic relations, also with regard to so many subjective rights: we forget it often, but there is a protection of the rights of the person who fortunately lies mainly in the civil process and not in the criminal process, which comes when the situation is now dramatized. It was therefore very important to intervene and we feel a great responsibility, also because this issue is part of the relationship of trust with European partners in obtaining the funds on which we place much hope and many projects in which there is an innovative development effort. We must say that the great work - perhaps the majority - will be in an organizational innovation and offices, in a great use of resources and in a modernisation of the justice system, which to a large extent cannot be put - let us be clear - in the reforms of the civil procedure. This led to the intervention of both the Government and the Commission. These rules should therefore be seen in this process of reorganisation. Let's get to the point: there are three fundamental axes. The first is a targeted intervention - as Mr Modena has explained - on the first civil hearing, which is a hub for the future of the process and which has undergone important changes and innovations in the Commission's work. This is done without prejudice to the approach of making the first hearing effective, useful and important, putting the judge in a position to determine a rapid development of the procedure and to have all the knowledge available so that he is also responsible for the development of the procedure. We also wanted a more precise and clear time scan. Today we have the timetable for the process, but there is a principle on which I think we will have the opportunity to work in other measures as well. However, we must point out that there are no longer any preclusions and sanctions, and there is no longer the penalty of non-presence (technically, absentia), which in such processes risked penalising the most inexperienced parties. We are talking about a process with a very high level of technicalism and I would like to say that, even with the Group to which I am a member, I feel particularly sensitive to a system that is not discriminatory for the weakest parties, that can be so because it is economically weaker but not only: anyone, in fact, can find himself in a situation of weakness and the civil process risks, if not cared for, to benefit those who are economically stronger. And I'd like to ask, at the end of the pandemic, who is more economically stronger today. On the principle of making the first hearing useful we have spoken a great deal: we have kept it together with the Commission, but we have also taken up criticism and concern by giving solutions which must - of course - be in the spirit of reform. The second pillar is the alternative solutions, the alternative dispute resolution (ADR). In this regard too, I believe that an important, not punitive, not rewarding direction has been taken for those who are already strong, but for incentives. Therefore, for example, on mediation, on which the Government has certainly chosen to invest more, (there are tax incentives), it was thought to encourage this choice giving the opportunity to access it. In the Commission we fought and also worked on the other two sides: on assisted negotiation with an increase in incentives for justice practitioners and arbitration, making plans also for the future (drafts were presented, and Mr Caliendo also made important contributions on this subject) to make it less expensive. Arbitration must be used, not because one belongs to a privileged and elitist circuit, but because one chooses this instrument also for the reduction of costs. For now we have certainly managed to regulate it better by establishing incompatibility, guarantees of impartiality and more detailed discipline. Another very important pillar is the office of the process, which will truly be a great innovation, a structural measure. It is not simply a support team to the judge, but precisely a revolution in the organization, that is the jurisdiction understood as a pool that supports the judge with innovative competences, not only legal; especially if we talk about civil process, it will certainly be very important to have the support of experts in economics, social sciences, organization, who enter the judge's team, also understood as a section and as a college. We know that the Council of Ministers has already launched extraordinary immediate action with 16,500 units, of which 8,100 have already been called a ban, but these are structural measures which must change in the very sense of a different organization and of a different way of arriving at a measure. A great deal of work has also been done in the Commission on the execution process, on judicial auctions, on the protection of the weakest and most exposed, but above all on legality, with the introduction of the digital database. In this regard, I would like to stress that there is another important protagonist, namely technology, digitisation, which is a backbone of the PNRR. This aspect is fundamental in the service of justice, not simply as a more modern tool, but because it allows to organize in a different way. There is still a long way to go in this area, but as the largest resources and access to these resources insists on the node of digitisation, this intervention makes sense. This applies to contracts and so on; modern, advanced instruments of the present and the future can help to exercise better control of legality, which must cease to be seen, more or less openly, as an obstacle, as a bottleneck. There is a way to have good control of legality without bureaucratizing and filling the path of stumbling. This obviously happens if you have your head and you pay attention to it. Finally, there is the question of the family court, on which Mrs Unterberger spoke on time and with a Teutonic style, synthetically but very incisively. Here too, there are a number of questions. First of all, there has been a great innovation which, not by chance, since it is a subject that has already been discussed a great deal in recent years, has received a general consensus, certainly unanimous from the Commission, with the involvement of the opposition from the very beginning, which I thank on this point, but also outside these classrooms. In fact, the family court is finally established, which also assumes in itself the court of minors and which is not only a simplification, but something much more, because it means putting in a sector, which is not only specialized, but has its own completeness, a matter that is necessarily interdisciplinary, that needs many competences and for which the division between ordinary civil court and court of minors must cease. Here there were discriminations between children born in marriage and children born out of marriage, which absolutely had to be erased, but not only, because there was and still is an overlap of measures, at the risk of duplication. In addition, by linking to the subjects that I will now deal with very briefly, there is often also less incisiveness due to the multiplication of interventions. I therefore come to the last question, which was an important challenge for the Commission, because it concerns the issue of how protection is addressed. Family law must be basically a protection, because when the State enters into this type of relationship, the issue becomes delicate. Surely the state must step up as far as personal relations are concerned, but equally surely there is a theme of protection, adapted also to the change of society, because this is the theme of the issues. There is therefore one issue, which I consider to be very important and which is the result of the work of the Justice Commission, in close liaison with the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence. I am referring to the fact that family violence comes into the attention of family law and the family process. I would like to point out that it is in the spotlight and not in the process. Unfortunately we know - in recent days we have been tragically reminded - that it is precisely in those moments that tensions and violence develop and explode and therefore we believe that protection and protection cannot be delegated only and completely to the criminal process. In fact, there is a delicate moment of detection, attention and intervention. This is what we have done, as the Commission, discussing a lot, giving the judge all the means to be careful, to take immediate action and to organize a series of measures. This point is contained in specific articles of the delegation: we have, above all, explicitly and repeatedly linked the discipline that will result from the Istanbul Convention, which is very clear on this point. We have established, as provided for in the Istanbul Convention, that attempts at conciliation or mediation cannot be made in all cases where there is violence, that we must stop and that we must coordinate with all those involved in justice. Wanting then to be consequential with the need to really put the child at the center - what guides us and must always guide us is not in fact the tension between the rights of the two parents, but the need to put the child at the center - we have established that, in all cases where the child refuses to see one or both parents and where there are cases of violence, the child must be heard directly by the judge. In this case too, therefore, we put jurisdiction at the centre and this - let us be careful - is the choice that is part of the culture of guarantees that we talk about very often, forgetting, however, sometimes what it means, shaking this term without associating with the object complements. The culture of guarantees is precisely to put the moment of exercise of jurisdiction at the centre. It is a very delicate phase, in which many consultants and many assistants rightly intervene, and it is necessary to define the intervention of these assistants, which must actually be an intervention of aid and not of delegation of other functions, precisely because the judge has duties and has a certain type of training. Specific training on violence in family relationships is absolutely central to this measure. In addition, we write that where assessments of a certain type are made, we explicitly exclude all those theories that do not have a recognition in the protocols recognized by the scientific community. At the same time, we value this aid, but enshrine it in a guide, in guarantees. I therefore believe that the right choice, which rewards each approach - because of course we cannot hide that we have dealt with it on the basis of very different approaches - is to establish as objective criteria as possible in the exercise of these functions and to eliminate all those ambiguities behind which the guarantees pale. We have of course also dealt with a subject related to this, which is the enforcement of measures concerning minors in relations with parents, introducing very strict and strict safeguards and in particular excluding a number of issues, when there is violence, also giving the judge the possibility to make a series of investigations, as Senator Unterberger has already said, at the same time recognizing the problem of giving protection to the judge's decisions on the issue of visits and children's relations with both parents. We have valued not the conflict, but the fact that the conflict may not exist if there is a discipline that guarantees. The fact that a number of measures or choices can only be taken - this is the novelty - if there is a common request from the parties, means that the choice has been made not to exasperate a conflict to decide who succumbs and who wins, but to protect the parties so that the conflict is not exasperated, with all the support and with all the guarantees. Even with regard to the role of social services, we have demanded that the facts established by the evaluations be distinguished. Thank you for your attention and patience, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen in this case, I have extended myself a little in concrete examples, because I think that when we discuss protection and guarantees, we must have patience, intellectual honesty and also resistance to enter into a subject that is obviously not prejudiced, but with the willingness to look at the issues and realities to the full. We know that there is a great need for this and that there is a need for state intervention on this subject, which is prudent but very careful. We never want to hear again that there has been inattention or underestimation. To us the task of giving the tools and also the address, because the judge applies the law, but in the laws there is a choice of field, there is an address. It is not true that laws are neutral, because by giving priority, of course, choices are made. I also thank my colleagues, certainly the members of the Commission, the co-rapporteurs, the Government, who, in the person of the Secretary of State, Macina, has always been present and I think that we are on the way for a very important intervention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. He is registered to speak Senator Emanuele Pellegrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u11	Mr President, although the subject we are dealing with today is perhaps not the front pages of the newspapers, I have to be honest: the wrists are shaking a little. For those who work daily in courtrooms, in fact, who are lawyers, magistrates or legal operators of various types, going to prepare the reform of the civil process makes the wrists a little tremble, since this type of reform will have an important impact on the daily life of all of us, of all citizens who have the need and right to take the streets of justice and therefore to turn to a magistrate or any other judicial body to see their rights respected. We, therefore, today go to operate a truly important intervention for the daily life of every citizen and of every person who lives on our territory. The history of this provision is well known. It is an articulated, complicated measure, which has extended quite over time and which starts from the famous Bonafede delegation law, which contained some elements that I would dare even define incomprehensible for many categories of the sector. I speak in particular of the civil chambers, of the same magistrates and of all those who work in the world of justice. Fortunately, the change in the governing body led to Minister Cartabia and, of course, Secretary Macina, whom I cannot forget and who, as the rapporteurs have already said, was present minute by minute in the debate. The advent of Minister Cartabia led to a heavy remodulation of what was the text of the delegation law initially deposited. Fortunately, I would add, because we have gone to eliminate problems which, if put into practice, would have really created malfunctions in the judicial system. From this point of view, therefore, I can only thank the Minister who, thanks to his presence, has certainly brought a very important change of course. Having said that, it is also necessary to consider the preparation and the approach, which is also made according to the PNRR, i.e. the objectives that the PNRR has put in place. As has already been said, however, that is not the only objective, because we should probably have done this reform years and years ago. However, we have reached this point and, therefore, we have all started to work together. In fact, I must acknowledge that in the Commission, beyond distances, more or less ideological, we have all worked together to try to achieve the objective of making rules genuinely usable, for all judicial operators but, at the end of the day, for all citizens. As I said, the measure has actually been re-founded. We have tried to listen to all categories, particularly those of lawyers. The civil chambers, in particular, have repeatedly called for listening, because in the end civilist lawyers are those who tread the ground of judicial classrooms, which then have to do with their clients, with their fellow citizens, who have rights that must be safeguarded. Surely we have tried to listen to all the complaints, all the requests and all the comments that come from the legal agora. We should probably spend hours talking specifically about this measure and the rules it contains; we should spend hours here, in addition to those we spent in the Commission. Of course, we can only outline a few snapshots, because the times we have for debate in this House are not appropriate and are not aligned with the complexity of this measure. We therefore only launch two snapshots, as has also been done by the rapporteurs, whom I thank. I am particularly interested in two points: the first concerns mediation. The rapporteurs have rightly said that ADRs are important, that is, alternative dispute resolution instruments, in particular mediation. We as a Group - and I in particular - have tabled a number of amendments on the subject, because we strongly believe that mediation is one of the fundamental instruments to prevent people from coming to the court, perhaps by occupying the judicial body on matters that can be handled and dealt with in the private sector. The objective is therefore to leave within the parties the very management of the litigation, through, of course, the help of a mediator. We have tried, through the amendments and through the debate, to bring suggestions, to broaden the application of mediation, precisely because we strongly believe in the principle of freedom that lies at the basis of this institution: the freedom to self-determine, to even self-manage litigation and to enter into a logic that has been present in the Anglo-Saxon environments for decades, always, that is, the perspective of win-win. When there is a dispute, when there is a dispute, both sides must come out winning. We must not start from the assumption - which is typically Italian - that, when there is a trial, there is a part that wins and there is one that loses. Within the world of civil law, commercial law, but not only, we must act - and the Ministry must do so, even through a work of conviction of all professional categories - on a cultural level; we must return to talk to the citizens to make it clear that going to court does not ensure a victory and does not ensure that winning a cause then allows us to really be right. Unfortunately, that is the case. The view of mediation, on the other hand, is different; it is an approach that we strongly believe. We really ask that, in the measures to be taken subsequently by the Government, it should be particularly affected on the basis of the indications that we have set out through the amending phase and the discussion phase. We arrive at the nerve point, the one that has occupied us for the most time: the ordinary civil process. During a sitting in the Commission I had the opportunity to speak on this very point, addressing the Government - particularly the Secretary of State for Agriculture - and raising not doubts but some comments. I believe that this rule is certainly not the best; I say it quietly: in my opinion it is not the best. However, I start from the assumption contained in a sentence that Minister Cartabia had formulated at a meeting that had been made: the civil process, which is a central moment in the social and economic life of this country, today is a serious sick person and, as such, must be treated with important therapy. Probably the text we are approving today is the necessary important care. As I have already said, I hope that we will not have to go back to rewording and remodulating rules which perhaps, in practice, fail to achieve real effectiveness. I believe that, however, because we have worked together. The work we are trying to do will continue the dialogue and discussion that we have begun in the Commission. Work will continue in particular on the process and I recall a principle that has been recalled, referring to the Union of Civil Chambers: we must not trade law with speed and economics because Europe is asking us to do so. We must reaffirm the principle that the rights that are safeguarded by these reforms are a bulwark to be protected. There would be many other things to say because the provision is complex. I think, as has already been said, of the family court and of the execution part. I would just like to thank the rapporteurs, all the Members of the Commission and President Ostellari again, because it is also thanks to him that we have managed to give direction. I would like to thank all those who, at the very complex and complex stage of the amendment, have helped us by providing us with an additional element of discussion and discussion that may not have been accepted, but that has been discussed. Agendas have been approved, and I believe that they will help bring about a turning point in civil justice. However, we must continue to work and that is only the starting point. Our Group is here, ready to monitor, control and roll up its sleeves when necessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u13	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to postpone my speech to take part in the press conference of Mr Ferro on a very important issue concerning head and neck cancers, which is why I wanted to be present. We are discussing the reform of the civil process and, as my custom, I would like to thank those who have put their faces, their commitment, their sweat, their brains and their hearts, working so hard in the past months. We start from a distance because everything begins in January 2020, and then we continue with an acceleration strongly imposed by Minister Cartabia through the establishment of the so-called Commission Luiso at the legislative office of its Ministry, which - needless to say - has strongly contributed to giving a clear, strong and evident impulse in order to achieve a result as soon as possible. That work has been included in an initial proposal from the previous Government, but also in the draft law signed, together with others, by my colleague Caliendo, sitting by my side and of which I am honored to be a friend and colleague, who, together with other signatories, had introduced the issue. It's been a few months since then. We have approved the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and this reform certainly responds to one of the issues repeatedly called upon by the Council of Europe to Italy that, with the implementation, implementation and implementation of the Plan has become not urgent, but necessary to adopt as soon as possible. I would therefore like to thank the members of the Committee on Justice and, in particular, the three rapporteurs. I forgive the other ladies, but I extend a warm thanks to my friend and colleague Modena for her heart, will and commitment. Let's face it, we were behind. I speak as a civil lawyer, repentant for a simple reason. When I graduated, my father (who was a criminalist and therefore I am a son of art) told me to do what I wanted. I felt that I was not qualified to be a criminal lawyer and chose the civilian. I was wrong, because I had to choose the administration. I say this now because I had to be an administrativeist: not only because I liked everything that concerns public administration, but because the procedures related to administrative law, therefore everything that involves administrative justice, work, and I must admit that even in the pandemic period they worked well, better than civil and criminal justice. Why am I "repented" of choosing to be a civil lawyer? Apart from paying no one (this is another civil problem), the point is another: unfortunately, the incredible slowness of our civil process in fact denies justice, does not give the opportunity to give clear, strong and challenging answers to customers and there is no chance to say that from us those who need justice find it, because it is not so. This is why many companies, which might come to invest in our country, do not do so, because the civil justice system does not work. This is the reason why the European Council has repeatedly urged our country to reduce the time of justice, to make it faster, more effective and more efficient, in every degree of judgment. So, not only in the first instance, which is the real problem of Italian civil justice, but also in the second and third. It is clear that progress has been made in the past months. As Mrs Fiammetta Modena rightly said, the experience of the functioning of civil justice in the pandemic era has also been useful in acquiring certain elements, which can be translated. That experience with this reform is not lost, but it is being resumed and some of the things that worked best during that period have been taken on and lowered in this reform. It is a reform which, on the basis of the need to give speed, speed and efficiency to our civil justice, is also directly linked to the possibility of spending the money that comes to us from the European Union. At this point the need has become twofold: not only to make our country more civilized and allow foreign investors to believe in our judicial system, but also to implement everything contained in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which necessarily, in a short time, must be realized. Otherwise there is the failure of this enterprise, the one in which we all believe, especially with such a vast and extensive majority. We know, in fact, that the growth of our country, economic growth, in an extraordinarily strong and important country, that has a history of which we are proud, cannot get bogged down in bureaucracy and slowness, in a nineteenth-century approach that unfortunately still exists in some systems, in particular in justice, because the problem also concerns the criminal process. As is well known, however, the civil servant took care of the Senate, while the Penalty was dealt with by the House. We have dealt with this through a Justice Commission which has worked very well in all its components (I listened to Mr Pellegrini a moment ago and others will be speaking), because everyone had the clear and clear intention of achieving a solution, because we are all aware that we can no longer go on like this. We are talking about the reduction - as Mrs Modena mentioned - of at least 40% of the present time: we are talking about an incredible percentage. Clearly something had to be done. The shortcomings and problems to be solved have been identified in order to obtain the reduction of procedural times, especially in the introductory phase of the civil judgment and in the decision-making phase. With regard to the introductory phase, if I understood correctly, one tends to try to approach what has always been the process of labour law, which concentrates all the investigative activities (the means of proof, documentary and for texts, and not only) as well as the oath of the CTU to which was mentioned before and all the others in the first phase. Just as it becomes important, even in the decision-making phase, to try to reduce the time. It seems to me that from the product that came out of the Luiso committee some indications have been obtained, while others have been added thanks to the excellent work done by the 2nd Commission Justice. Then there is the question of alternative procedures for resolving disputes (Mr Pellegrini spoke about this and I agree with the content of his speech), namely mediation and negotiation. These instruments must be used more and better. Mediation in recent years has unfortunately not worked; paradoxically it has been a total failure. In civil judgment I even saw it as a further slowness, that is, as an opportunity to lengthen the time of a civil judgment, rather than to reduce it. There are very few disputes that have been settled in mediation in recent years. I conclude by saying that much has been done in the area of civil executions. I think it should be said that this Parliament has done a good thing. It is a measure that must certainly be tested and tested; we check that it actually works. I would like to thank all my colleagues, particularly my friends from Forza Italia, who have collaborated in this work. I wholeheartedly hope that this majority will succeed once and for all in resolving a problem which is historic and which has never been resolved in the past years, despite the various attempts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u14	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is the result of a long work done in the Commission on Justice in the Senate. This is a draft law presented by the previous Government, the Conte bis, born from the need to adapt our regulatory framework in the civil field to the continuous changes of the socio-economic reality with which we are called to confront each day. The PNRR represents a fundamental opportunity to adopt the structural reforms that our country urgently needs. From the approval of this bill of delegation derives in fact the disbursement of the funds previewed in order to contribute to the total relaunch of the Country and its economy. The satisfaction with the services is also represented by a national indicator referring to the duration of civil proceedings, essential for identifying the efficiency of the judicial system, through the adoption of telematic procedures that accelerate the timing of the process and the same administrative procedures, experienced during the lockdown period. Digitalisation and innovation are key words. The close connection between the competitiveness of the country, as perceived by international investors, and the times of civil justice in fact makes this intervention on the civil rite no longer procrastinable, in order to make it leaner and faster. Faster and more streamlined justice can only bring social and economic benefits. It is therefore essential, in order to achieve the pre-established results, to try to minimise disputes, encouraging alternative rites to the process and promoting out-of-court dispute resolution procedures (such as mediation, assisted negotiation and arbitration), including tax benefits. The office of the trial is a revolution in the organization, precisely because the judge will no longer be alone, but will be able to avail himself of a staff that will support his decisions in the various areas. Finally, as President of the bicameral committee of inquiry into the events of the Forteto community, I believe it is necessary to pay attention to an amendment unanimously adopted in the Justice Commission, which provides for the establishment of a court for persons, minors and families, which will have jurisdiction over all matters relating to separation, divorce, custody and juvenile criminal law. The system of protection of children presents in our country various critical issues that institutions and society can no longer ignore, especially in the light of the countless dramatic events that have occurred over the years and which continue to represent facts of news. During the work of the Committee of Inquiry into the events in the community "Il Forteto" these very serious shortcomings of the system of custody of minors in our country have emerged. Although the reconstruction of facts and specific responsibilities is still under way, it is clear that there is a need for regulatory intervention in relation to the system of trusts which has as its main focus the best interests of the child. The hearings held by the Commission revealed the problematic profile of the relationship between the juvenile judicial authority and social services, which in many cases is entrusted with the final decision on the fate of the child who is in socio-family or psychological distress without having, however, objective data and without carrying out constant monitoring by the same or the juvenile prosecutor. It is therefore extremely important that all decisions and findings of social workers be based on objective data. The lack of adequate investigation cannot be justified by the lack of staff within the courts. For these reasons it is necessary to find the right balance between all the profiles at stake, those legal, existential, values, human and economic, which in such situations may conflict with each other. The function of Law No 184 of 1983 was not to remove children from their parents, but to protect children from a situation of difficulty and, at the same time, to support those parents in the performance of their parental duties in order to allow minors to return to their family of origin. The important element was therefore temporaryity and here it will no longer be a temporary foster, but a timeless foster, if the child will no longer return to the family of origin. For these reasons, constant monitoring is needed, aid to the family of origin, except in cases of violence where, on the other hand, there must be a definitive break. In order to ensure that there are no distortions within the system and that the foster care is a suitable tool for the protection of minors, it is necessary to carry out checks and checks in all directions, i.e. not only with regard to minors, but also with regard to caregivers, families of origin and communities. With the establishment of this new specialised court, born from the fusion of the experience of the courts for minors and ordinary ones, they will identify themselves, not only dedicated and protected places for minors, but they will understand all the competences in the family court, so as to address the same issues that until now were divided between the court for minors and the civil court, in order to make the system work better and avoid duplication of disputes and measures. While it is true that it is necessary to specialise in the system with the establishment of the family court, it is equally true that it is necessary to introduce clear and precise provisions governing the functions and competences of all those who will rotate in this court. Colleagues, with this reform a substantial step is being taken today towards that recovery plan that our country has been demanding with a loud voice for years. Today we therefore have the need and the obligation to leave out the differences in order to reach a higher end that is, precisely, that of Italy. Thanks therefore to all the members of the Justice Commission and to the Government for their work on this measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u16	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u17	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the Government for the important and valuable work that has already been mentioned. Personally, as President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender violence, I will concentrate my speech on this part, which has already been widely recalled by many others, starting with the rapporteurs, whom I warmly thank for the work of linking not simple and hard enough, given the context and the time in which it has matured. As a committee of inquiry, we worked together to present a package of amendments that essentially tried to be part of the dramatic reality that women live in a parliamentary debate. I believe that this is also the sense of good policy: linking, bringing the debate of the parliamentary classrooms closer together and the institutional commitment of all of us to the real reality, concrete of suffering which, unfortunately, we continue to record in complicated stages and times. I can only start from the dramatic news of these days: yesterday's news of the last murdered woman, Alessandra Zorzin, twenty-one years old, hairdresser; I want to emphasize mother of a two-year-old: a woman once again killed at the hands of a man who knew, probably a friend, an acquaintance in any case. A woman killed because she was a woman. The investigation will obviously continue and try to understand the reasons, the motive that led to such an act the man, who hunted himself then took his life. In any case, this is yet another episode in a week, in which we basically recorded one murder a day, and I want to stress that. The whole of politics, all the institutional parts and the political forces struggle every day - parliamentarians and territorial administrators compared to what happens in their territories - to comment and to be indignant, to say that it is acceptable, that we need a change of pace, that we do not succeed. We also record it because - let's face it - in a context in which all murders and violent crimes decrease in this country, the only ones that really seem to resist, as if nothing could affect this phenomenon, are exactly the crimes of violence against women, in particular the killings of women as women. I stress this strongly: women are killed not for other reasons, but because they are women. This I believe must question all of us, our consciences and especially the parliamentary classrooms. I say it from myself. Very often I am asked for a comment, but what should I comment on: another killing? What can politics do? Can you ever just comment every day sadly on a woman's death? We should expect more from all of us. We have seen this reform as an opportunity to try to respond, to give that additional answer. That's how we saw it. Our Commission has worked on this; we have built a package of amendments that try to give this kind of response. I would like to say this at once: it was not a simple task, partly because - we have to say this - in this Parliament, within the same majority, we have very different visions. I personally - and I believe I interpret the feeling of the vast majority of the Commission that I have the honour and the burden of presiding - believe that within the civil process today violence against women still suffers - as well as in criminal proceedings and in society - from a profound inequality of power between men and women, from a relationship still deeply asymmetrical, beyond what is written in the Constitution, in the laws, in a strong adequate regulatory framework that has nothing to envy to other countries. Unfortunately, it is still profoundly asymmetrical in work, in society, and so it is in relationships. So, that power inequality also lives in the classrooms of justice. I know that some people in this House do not think so and believe that we should have rebalanced in the opposite direction. We believe that this inequality exposes women to a vulnerability. You will never hear me say that women are a fragile subject: I don't think so, they are not and we don't feel we are a fragile subject, but vulnerable yes, exposed to more risks yes, for the social context in which we live, because the data tell us this, because, despite so many laws, we can't scratch a cultural and social dynamic, that struggles to be eradicated; otherwise we wouldn't explain why, in the face of such meaningful norms, women continue to be killed and suffer so many forms of violence. What did we say to each other? The reform of the civil process is a train. Why? I say this to this House, I appeal to all of us by reminding us of our commitment to being consistent. What does violence have to do with civil proceedings? As some have said, and I would just like to make one point by reporting to the House a typical story. Very often I am also told by my colleagues that I am too passionate and too determined, that I must understand that there are also other points of view. Then today I would like to use the ten minutes at my disposal to tell what I live as President of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, how many cases I have been reported every day and how responsible I feel, as a mother and as a woman, for trying to give some answers. The typical story is the following. A woman suffers violence for so many years; psychological, sexual, physical and economic violence and decides, for so many reasons, regardless of the criminal case because the man who uses violence is also the father of his children, raised within a violent family, to want to put an end to the relationship. Many times he does so having to find the courage, having to overcome the guilt, having to question because those choices made her and she thinks she is responsible. It must therefore overcome internal labour by seeking help that is often difficult. He therefore decided to put an end to this situation and went to a civil court to say that he simply wanted to close that report. Well, that's where the whole story of power inequality appears. In fact, a man who feels challenged in his identity - because some men, not all of them, have built their identity even a dynamic relationship of so unequaled force - feels attacked, accused and reacts with the greatest instrument he has: the use of children. Any woman in the face of the threat of losing children is in some way in danger of questioning herself and taking a step back. That is what happened today in the halls of justice. The children, after years of witnessing violence, say that that father does not want to see him. In the face of this refusal, the father, very often at the suggestion of lawyers who have seen this reality exist, accuses the woman of the so-called parental alienation, that is, of being a mother that conditions the minor for which she determines the refusal expressed by the child. Because of this - and I close on this story common to so many cases - women are taken away their children, they are even taken with the use of force, as I have recently pointed out to Minister Lamorgese and Minister Cartabia. Women report having seen the public force intervene with ten policemen in the house; a son who says he wants to stay with his mother, taken by public force and taken away from his mother's love, the woman who had tried to close a violent relationship, put in a family home. That woman doesn't even know for months and weeks where her son is, what happened to him, she won't be able to hear from him and talk to him. This is the drama that so many women live. [[Applause]] This is the drama that they live and I have a duty to tell you because every day we are reported suffering of this type. We have tried to give answers to all of this. Our amendments have been accepted in part. I recognise that an important job has been done. Violence is finally being read in civil proceedings. In our last report as the Committee of Inquiry we photographed that the training and specialization of magistrates in civil proceedings is still inadequate. We denounced him in front of President Curzio, President Salvi, we told the top of the judiciary and President Ermini. We have said that more investment is needed and that it is not acceptable for a judge - for example Aci Trezza - to say that the electronic bracelet could not be used when it could be used; it is not acceptable for the State to say "nothing" [[Applause]] ; It is not acceptable to say that the woman with her behavior has caused little clarity. You can't accept that. Let us then ask for formation. We have asked for more power from judges and less powers from consultants, who very often are not trained and refer to non-scientific thesis not recognized by the international community. We have noted the need to listen to the minor: if a minor says he does not want to be with his father, it is simple, let's start by investigating his will. [[Applause]] Why doesn't that minor want to be with his father? It's not complicated. Let's start with his will. All of this has been achieved with the reform being examined and we believe that it is important. Finally we said to pay attention to the execution of forced mode; the use of force towards a minor who says he does not want to be with the father should really be the extreme ratio. So we tried to tighten that process. The measures accepted are many; others were not, for others we had to mediate with political forces that thought differently from us. I wanted to express our point of view, on behalf of the many senators who have signed - almost the entire Commission - these amendments. I think we've started a job. I look to the glass half empty and half full and I trust that the minister Cartabia and the whole Government, as delegated legislator, can give full and more concrete implementation to the principles of the Istanbul Convention, which are for the first time rhythmic also in this procedure and to which must be given full implementation as a supranational norm that finds immediate and direct application in Italy; unfortunately still today, as the Grevio and all international bodies point out, this norm remains largely unimplemented in our country. For us, the inequality of power that makes so many women victims of violence today is also combated in this way. I believe that from these classrooms it is necessary not to express every day the condolences to a woman who is killed, but to reaffirm the commitment to continue a job that we, with fatigue, humility and determination, are carrying on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u20	PAPATHEU (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank you for your sensitivity, because you have given us extra minutes on such an important subject that today unfortunately only women seem to be interested. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He had to. He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u21	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a subject which is certainly decisive and important. Among other things, the European Commission makes the payment of money in the justice system conditional on the approval of system reforms, so the issue is really central and its reflections are wide-ranging in the field not only civil, but in the various variations: I am thinking of the economy, the family, the work, many issues on the agenda of the debate, not only ours, on the difficulties of the country. The text provides for a series of delegations to the Government to be exercised within one year of entry into force. The alternative dispute resolution tools (the so-called ADR) to be used also with telematic methods, which we have seen implemented especially in this pandemic phase, encouraging both civil and commercial mediation. There is also intervention on the discipline of arbitration by including, among other things, the inclusion of rules on corporate arbitration within the Code of Civil Procedure. The text brings a number of changes to the civil process at first instance, in order to improve the efficiency of civil justice and intervenes on the discipline of appeal judgment, strengthening the eligibility filter and simplifying the investigation phase of the procedure. It introduces the possibility for the court to propose the so-called reference for a preliminary ruling, i.e. to refer directly to the Court the resolution of a question of mere law on which the court has already raised the objection of the parties, provided that it is a completely new question, of particular importance, likely to arise in numerous judgments, a source of serious interpretative difficulties. The discipline of the executive process is changed by enhancing the indirect coercion measures referred to in Article 614 bis of the Code of Civil Procedure. With regard to real estate expropriations, the possibility for the debtor to sell directly foreclosed property at a price not lower than that indicated in the estimate. The text also introduces measures to reorder and implement the provisions on the telematic civil process; in this regard, one of the main tasks of the PNRR is precisely digitalisation and computerisation, with a considerable commitment of expenditure. There is an intervention on the discipline of the office of the trial, also providing for the establishment of similar organisational structures to it also at the Court of Cassation and at its Public Prosecutor's Office. A single rite shall be introduced applicable to all proceedings relating to the status of persons, minors and families. The Court of Justice is expected to be set up for persons, minors and families. In the area of justice, the European Council in its recommendations has constantly urged our country to reduce the duration of civil trials in all degrees of judgment, as well as to increase the effectiveness of the prevention and repression of corruption. The European Commission, in particular in its report on Italy 2020 (Country Report 2020), notes that Italy has only made very limited progress in implementing the various recommendations that have been made over time. In particular, in the civil sector, our country is challenged by the persistent and poor efficiency of the civil justice system, with particular regard to the still limited use of the filter of eligibility for appeals, which affects the duration of the trials; the need to strengthen the sub-dimensions of the magistrates' staff and also of administrative officials, the differences between the courts as regards the management of the proceedings. In its specific recommendations of 20 July 2020, the European Council once again called on Italy to take measures to improve the efficiency of the judicial system. They are therefore choices that can no longer be postponed in this respect. The PNRR, presented by the Government to the European Commission on 30 April 2021, identifies the slow implementation of some structural reforms as a limit to Italy's growth potential and contains some specific measures affecting the judicial system, not related to the main six missions, but incidentally recalled in several of them. The reform of the system, focused on the objective of reducing the time of judgement, where the time factor becomes a priority, is included by the PNRR as part of the so-called horizontal or context reforms, which consist of structural innovations in the legal system, which cover all areas of action of the Plan in a cross-cutting way. In order to achieve this objective, in addition to the orderly reforms to be carried out using the instrument of delegation, it is also envisaged to strengthen the resources, human resources, instrumental and technological endowments of the entire judicial system, to which specific investments are destined. In order to reduce the duration of the judgements, priority and primary objective, the Plan has several objectives: to bring to full implementation the office of the process, which had already been introduced experimentally in 2014 by decree-law; to strengthen the administrative capacity of the system to enhance the human resources not always fully valued; to integrate the staff of the gates, to compensate for the lack of technical professionalism other than those of an exquisitely legal nature, essential to implement and monitor the results of the increasingly incessant organizational innovation; to strengthen the digital infrastructures (we have seen the criticalities that have been revealed in some cases, especially at this pandemic time) with the revision and diffusion of the telematic systems for the management of procedural activities and for the transmission of acts and measures; to guarantee the justice system efficient and modern building structures. This is another issue that concerns what we call the justice ecosystem, regardless of the rituals on which we are intervening at the moment, but which concerns a much broader and significant issue. It is also expected to counter the recurrence of crime by strengthening the instruments for re-education and social reintegration of prisoners. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government identifies a number of priority areas of action, which we discussed in the Commission, and I would therefore like to express my appreciation and thanks to all my colleagues, especially the rapporteurs. The PNRR provides for three strands of action in this regard, including the strengthening of alternative instruments to the dispute resolution process. After an initial critical phase, which the lawyer also had the opportunity to counter, an innovative cultural process gradually strengthened this instrument, strengthening the guarantees of impartiality with regard to arbitration, extending the scope of the assisted negotiation and extending the applicability of the mediation institution. It is therefore a selective intervention on the civil process, aimed at concentrating, as far as possible, the activities typical of the preparatory and introductory phase, at eliminating potentially unnecessary hearings and at reducing the cases in which the court is called to judge in collegial composition, at better redefining the decision-making phase (an essential junction) with reference to all the degrees of judgment. Interventions were carried out on the executive process and on special procedures aimed at simplifying the forms and timing of the executive process, with particular regard to the field of real estate executions, expropriation to third parties and indirect coercion measures. The reform aims to make significant changes to the discipline of the process and alternative resolution tools, significantly affecting one of the key areas of the legal and judicial system. The aim is to rationalise the subjects and make the services more efficient; we will do so with the useful and necessary resources, in order to make the rites much more streamlined and faster by means of a systematic intervention on the regulatory body of the provisions currently governing the conduct of civil processes, with the aim of simplifying procedures, imprinting them with criteria of greater speed and efficiency. Clearly, there will be an analytic extension or exclusion of the subjects concerned by the compulsory experiment of the institutes of mediation and negotiation, the reduction of special rites, the repeal of the summary procedure of cognition, introducing in the second book of the Code of Procedure an ordinary rite before the court in monocratic composition. It is a simplified rite, borrowed on the procedural scheme of the summary rite of cognition, partly integrated on the model of the working rite. An efficient and quality civil justice administration system is an integral part of the protection that the State offers to citizens, creates the conditions for the orderly and peaceful development of associated social life and is also crucial to the functioning and development of the economic system. The many relationships that bind justice and the economy have long been known: a justice that works, ensuring the implementation of contracts and protection of rights, facilitates trading activities, encourages investment, facilitates access to the credit market, promotes competition and increases the attractiveness of the country towards foreign investors. These are all issues we are focusing on as a matter of priority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u22	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u23	Mr President, I am sure that good can be done here in Parliament. We started in the last legislature, filing a bill on citizenship income, both in the House of Deputies and in the Senate, and in this legislature this proposal has become a reality, doing good for many families. Then we continued, in the wake of the need to do good and we dealt, with many other colleagues, with associations scattered throughout Italy and with many realities dedicated precisely to helping families, to improve the laws, to help people who are losing everything, who may have lost their jobs, who have had misadventures regarding their own health or who are losing their homes. We have therefore tried to improve those norms, introduced for example in 2015 by the Renzi Government, which went to accelerate the process of forced executions and auction houses in an extravagant way. We were able to put a brake in 2018, then we had to amend the legislation, because there was the usual "manina" ministerial, which in turn had modified the norm and, as a matter of fact, we managed to have Article 560 of the Code of Civil Procedure approved, useful in order to respect the rights of the indebted people. This need to speed up auctions is certainly aimed at ensuring that the creditor people are remunerated. To accelerate the auctions so much, in the end, especially through the instrument introduced in 2015 by the Renzi Government of the automatic decrease of each auction of 20 percent, however, it makes sure to degrade the value of the real estate, so that those who are creditor cannot be repaid and those who are debtor continue to be liable for life, because money is not enough to pay the debt. We understand, therefore, that, as often happens, if you want to speed up too much, you will hurt yourself. We have also seen it in Parliament that speeding up too often is not appropriate and it is better to follow the rules: we have also seen what happened in the Commission, but I will talk about it later. The aforementioned article 560 is fine as it is, but unfortunately we have seen that, in the Government's proposal and above all in the Government's amendment, it, although not appointed, is retouched in some parts, always to speed up the process, so much so that it was intended to remove the family from the property at the time of the award and not in that of the transfer. I would remind all my colleagues that, when there is an auction award, it does not necessarily turn into a transfer and a real sale of the property, because maybe whoever won the property paid the advance, but does not pay the balance and therefore risks that the house will continue to remain empty. Is it an advantage to have an empty house with a dislocated family who doesn't know where to go? I don't think so, because the family still owns that property. Fortunately, we were able to convince all the groups and the government to make sure to keep the family away from the property only after the transfer and I think that this is a great achievement, which I hope will be confirmed by the vote of this House. I do not want to be the bird of bad luck, but on all the measures we have mentioned here in this House until today we know that there is not yet the definitive ok of the Accounting Office and therefore it is not said that all the measures you have mentioned can enter the final text that will be voted on in this House, but we will talk about this later. In addition to that, Mr President, always with a view to trying to do the minimum necessary for people not to be a source of income for the organized underworld - and I shall go in specifically to explain it better - we have tried to identify the instruments to be activated in the context of judicial auctions and the process of auctioning houses that can somehow create obstacles to the organized underworld. We know in fact that the latter on real estate auctions makes flowers of investment and profits, but above all uses them to recycle the dirty money. Trying to come up with some solutions, we have thought in particular of two fundamental measures, which are part of a bill filed here in the Senate. The first is proper verification. As colleagues will know, when you go to buy a house the notary takes note and asks where the capitals that invest in the purchase of the property come from, but above all tries to identify which could be the real beneficiary of that transaction and if he suspects that that transaction aimed at the purchase of a house may have something that is not in place, he sends an alert for suspicious operation. This happens for any real estate sale. As a matter of fact, in judicial auctions this is not the case. So, a bad organization through foreheads can safely present itself at a court auction, buy flowers of real estate and no one goes to see where the money comes from, but especially who is the real beneficiary of that operation. It doesn't make sense. We have therefore tabled a legislative proposal and it seems that it has been adopted in the Commission and will enter into this measure and we hope that everything will be all right. In addition to this, we have thought of another instrument, in my opinion fundamental, to put a stop to the investments of the criminal organized in judicial auctions, which is the database. It is necessary to ensure that the persons participating in the auctions are at least registered in a national database, in order to allow the judiciary itself, if it is to carry out investigations, to identify the persons who systematically participate in the auctions and to understand whether behind that systematicity there is anything to do with the organized underworld. This is also, in my opinion, a common sense amendment, which was part of the draft law that I was talking about and which we welcome was approved by the Justice Commission. Let's hope it's okay. We have achieved success on three fronts: the maintenance of Article 560 almost in its original drafting, the database and, above all, the need to trace the people participating in the auctions. These are three fundamental instruments to ensure that judicial auctions still have a human dimension, especially in respect of rights. [[Applause]] The rights must be weighed and a balance must be struck between the creditor's rights and the debtor's rights to continue living in the same house. Mr President, let me make a note of what has happened in the Senate these days, because in my opinion it should be remembered. We have tried to go beyond the procedures, which are standardized within our Rules of Procedure. I said that yesterday, but then the Commission that I chair was accused of being on vacation when the other Commissions were working. Well, I want to make this clear, because I believe it is my right and above all the right of the people who are with me in the Budget Commission: the last rewordings of the amendments adopted arrived last week. I have been promised that the rapporteur would not be given the mandate until after the opinion of the Budget Committee, and this has not been the case. I repeat that the last texts arrived on Thursday evening, the technical reports of the Ministry arrived this week and the rapporteur was given the mandate without waiting for the opinion of the Budget Commission, overturning the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. This is unacceptable, and I keep it here, not to make controversy, but only because it is an act of justice. I hope it never happens again, the effects we are seeing now: we should have voted on confidence today and instead we are still engaged in the general debate. The Regulations serve and must be respected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u24	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u25	(at 11.20 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u26	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I remember what it was like that afternoon nine years ago. It was on 16 May 2012, when, speaking from this same bench, in this same position, I addressed all the senators, without distinction, I made the closing speech as rapporteur, before the final vote, on a measure of civilization, which later became law and which saw the board of this Chamber all green, with unanimous approval. I'm talking about the Senate Act 2805, which became Law No. 219 of 2012, laying down provisions for the recognition of natural children. By virtue of that law today, within the civil code, every hateful, retrograde, humiliating and antihistorical adjectivation after the word children has been eliminated. I renamed that law of reform on the recognition of natural children Filumena Marturano law. Do You Remember? The Second World War had just ended when at the theater, during the performance of one of the most beautiful works ever written by Eduardo De Filippo, heard a phrase pronounced by the character of Filumena Marturano. For the first time, the small great truth resonated, which today, after more than seventy years, we realized: the sons are sons, "'and daughters are' daughters." It doesn't matter who they were born to: whether married or cohabited parents or a single mother; it doesn't matter if they were adopted. In any case, they are children and to them, only to them, to their protection and to the protection of their rights in an absolutely fair way we must think. Today is finally like this. Today the children are perfectly equal before the law and finally all have the same rights. I remember that once there were no collateral relatives, that the rights of succession were a problem and that, however, it was a horrible stamp. Now the children are equal before the law, having realized, with a normative change of great civilization, this sacred right. For us the main objective was to remove that stain in our system and ensure that there was no more discrimination. The protection of children's rights surpasses everything. On the other hand, it was from the reform of family law in 1975 that legal practitioners felt the need to complete the process of equalizing the legal status of children and to define clearly the exercise of parental responsibility in the event of a crisis in the family. Today that epochal reform, a real revolution of civilization, is perfected. Among the changes introduced to the basic text was that of the court of jurisdiction in the case of parental disputes and related proceedings with respect to custody and child support. Once, in the event of separation, unmarried parents had to go to the court for minors and married parents, instead, to the ordinary court. And you, who are experts in legal proceedings, know well how different the process of one court is from another. Thus, on a transitional basis, the jurisdiction would have been that of the ordinary court, with a view to the establishment of specialised sections within the courts themselves on the specific subject matter. This is the so-called family court, which we had already incardinated as a measure in the Justice Commission. After having equated the rites in case of separation of married parents and not for the custody and maintenance of children, today you can finally say goodbye to the dualism between court of minors and ordinary court. We are faced with a reform that will change a structure. We have been talking about a single court for families for years and today, thanks to an amendment signed by the rapporteurs, Senators Modena, Rossomando and Unterberger, approved unanimously in the Commission, it is finally established, with specialised judgements and with specific powers, to ensure the due attention given to such sensitive proceedings. I do not go into technical merit, but I simply express my satisfaction.Today we close a path that has given a complete meaning to my past legislature when, with Senator Caliendo and President Alberti Casellati, then Undersecretary for Justice, who were decisive in supporting the process of equalization, we gave great help to the protection of children's rights, writing a very high legislative page. For children, this is contained in this delegation law, but then the President of the Committee on Children and Adolescence, Senator Ronzulli, will speak about it. Today, in addition to Senator Giacomo Caliendo, who continued the work started, I warmly thank Senator Fiammetta Modena, because from her first day of legislature she promised me that she would bring to completion the work started and did so with all the expertise and sensitivity that characterize her: promise maintained, Fiammetta, so I truly thank you from the heart. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u27	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start from the last part of Senator Gallone's speech. I too feel obliged to thank the Government, in particular the Secretary of State, Ms Macina, with whom we have sometimes also had to think differently about certain aspects. I want to thank the rapporteurs, who have done - believe me - a very Carthusian job; it was very difficult to complete this measure. I would also like to thank all my colleagues in the Commission for their sometimes heated, sometimes harsh, confrontation, but where it has certainly become clear that it was everyone's concern to complete this measure. This, in fact, means following up on what we said at the beginning of our experience with this Government, that is, finally giving way to a reform of substance. I am at my second legislature and this reform was needed a long, long time before I arrived in the Senate. I have been a lawyer and ever since I started my profession, despite the reforms that have taken place over the last few decades, we have always said that the civil process had to be reformed, revised and efficient. And yet, until today, we couldn't do anything. I believe that this is the clearest and most obvious sign of the fact that with the Draghi Government there really is the change of pace that we have long been hoping for. Today we are about to approve the reform of the civil process, but the Chamber has already been approved that of the criminal process, on which from today we will begin to work also in the Senate and which we hope to carry out in a very short time. This means that there is a turning point that we really can call epochal. Mr President, I would ask you first of all to allow the rest of my speech to be left to the record, because time will certainly not be enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u29	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u30	CUCCA (IV-PSI). I am truly proud to participate in the approval of this measure, which nevertheless traces a sign in the history of our country. I do not want to emphasize anything, I look at it well, because I am aware that the provision is not perfect: we know very well and especially the technical operators of the law know perfectly that it is not, but it is perfectible. Of course, however, we have finally opened a new path to the efficiency of the civil process system. At last we give an answer also abroad: we have talked many times about investors who no longer believed in our country and in our economy, because any controversy was of very difficult solution and dragged for years. I absolutely do not believe that this measure is the panacea of all evils, but, as I said, we have a certain fact, a clear signal: the civil process from now on, since this reform will become a regime (and it will not be easy), will really know a change of mentality and step. The lawyers themselves will have to adapt to the new system, so it will also take some preparation, because it cannot be changed from today to tomorrow. We are aware, however, that we are really making an extremely important service to the country. The core architecture of the reform revolves around the commitments that the Government had assumed since its establishment and those assumed with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. 11:27 a.m. (Follow CUCCA). It aims to rationalise some crucial hubs of civil justice. With regard to the main innovations, I would first like to draw attention to the valorisation of the forms of alternative justice. In past years, Senator Caliendo - who is a good witness of this - has been among those who more than others claimed the need to run alternative justice and in the measure under consideration so much is done in this sense. I am also thinking of the simplification of labour judgments and the establishment of a unitary rite instead of the fragmentation of family proceedings, while preserving the specificities of child justice. The spirit of this reform therefore lies in the idea of a process that is agile and in the spirit of collaboration between the parties, the defenders and the judge. This is an absolutely revolutionary fact, because we have often hoped for the need for collaboration between the parties, but those who carry out the profession know perfectly well the difficulty that is encountered in everyday life. Well, we will have to get used to this, to this we tend, and that is what we want to happen when the reform finally comes into effect. The growing demand for justice of citizens, in addition to the recommendations addressed to our country by Europe, as mentioned above, therefore highlights the primary need to achieve a reduction in the time of justice. The aim is therefore to restore the Italian process to a model of efficiency and competitiveness that would also allow the return of citizens' confidence in justice and, at the same time, a renewal and implementation of investments, even foreign. The idea of efficiency cannot represent a mere programmatic objective, but it must be combined with the same value component of the process, therefore with the intrinsic ideals of justice. The industry knows what I mean, how much we believe that every day we are dealing with judges and how much problems judges have with the lawyer. When we wear the robe, we do not think we are wearing a rag or a piece of black cloth, but we are aware that it represents something in which citizens have to come back to believe. That's the point. [[Applause]] Those who have spent their lives pursuing these ideals - let me say quietly that they are one of them - now have a minimum of satisfaction. I think we could really start a new course and give a new signal to our country, renewing that confidence that has all too often failed. It is unthinkable that a process for a hereditary division will last thirty years. It has happened to me so many times that the lawyers died first and had to stop and that, then, the parties died and stopped again. It happens four, five, even six times. It's unthinkable. What confidence can citizens have in the face of such a system? Today the audiences of mere postponement are putting them in the attic. I followed trials where I found myself seeing files with four years of mere referrals. This will no longer be possible and means that we are really taking an epochal step in the efficiency of the justice system. One of the driving aspects of the reform, which I particularly welcome, is the exploitation of alternative dispute resolution measures. These are instruments with great potential. It is a well-established experience that alternative forms of conflict resolution produce virtuous effects, but their concrete application will be able to overcome this potential. As I said earlier, this is a very important issue. Maybe I will take back some arguments in explanation of vote and I apologize if I am so passionate about these issues, but they are my life. I really believe that and I speak with my heart. Today we are showing a real interest in the needs of our citizens. I am proud again, and I believe that all my colleagues in this House are proud. On behalf of myself and Italy Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano I express full and unconditional support for what has been done for this procedure and for the continuation of the road undertaken with the start of this Government. We'll be there because we're doing good things. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that such a historic turning point, such as the one mentioned by the many previous Members, cannot be found in the Senate Assembly. We are among a few close to discussing this epochal turning point, and I believe that this is a sign of the fact that probably so epochal, dear colleague Cucca, is not. As you can see, few of our colleagues have felt the importance you attach to the debate we are holding. I have participated in the work in the Commission, which has been agitated and very confused, with continuous rewordings, of which the majority was sometimes aware (that is, all the others except me), because it had been discussed separately, so I had to appeal to the kindness of some of my colleagues to have at least the knowledge of the text we were voting on, because many times it was not even in the Commission's willingness. The work was so excited that in the end President Ostellari himself had to ask for a postponement of the debate yesterday, because it was still necessary to understand exactly what had been voted on. In some cases, we didn't even know exactly what was voted on and we needed a thorough drafting work. Finally, today we have come to the debate on the text in this House, which takes place in a few close quarters and on which the threat of the fourteenth confidence of the government of the best lies. In fact, it seems that a government made up of 95% of the members of this House is not able to complete a legislative measure without a parliamentary confrontation, but it must immediately subscribe it with confidence, despite the opposition - on this as on others - has shown all its willingness to dialogue and its cooperation, to the extent that only twenty amendments have been tabled, but neither do you want to make us discuss them. Speak of an epochal turning point, while to me they seem yet another compression of parliamentary confrontation and, above all, once again, a mountain that gives birth to a mouse. You see, I have a very simple question, to which no one has ever answered me (who knows, maybe the government will sooner or later deserve to answer me). You say that the reform of the civil process is really important and that on it - as we all know - national interest is played, because not only the funds of the PNRR are conditioned but, more importantly - we know very well - the slowness of civil justice costs the Italian economy some point of GDP, a few tens of billions, not just a small thing. So, ladies and gentlemen, if the reform is so important, as you all say, I would like to understand why, out of 200 billion of the recovery fund, we only allocate 2.3 to justice, i.e. less than 1.5% of the total amount. If it's so crucial, does anyone want to explain to me why we dedicate so little resources to him? And the most serious thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that we spend these resources not on the structural reforms that Europe is asking of us, but on the office of the fixed-term process. I have heard all the members of the majority speaking enthusiastically at the trial office; I hope they are right, even though the facts have unfortunately been wrong so far. As it is designed, young graduates will be employed on a fixed-term basis at the trial office, destined to remain in this role for two years or a little longer. Do you really believe that with this solution we will shorten civil justice times by 40%? We all know very well that the key issue is the decision, that is, the time when the case is being decided. And there, unless we want to have the sentences written to those who are not judges (which would be slightly unconstitutional), the problems are not solved anyway and not even addressed, because, in order to do so you really have to hire judges and chancellors and strengthen the administrative staff; of all this, however, there is very little in the epochal reform you talk about. This emphasis on the trial office seems very dangerous to me. Having put everything on the trial office seems to me to be a short-sighted and dangerous choice, ladies and gentlemen. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid that won't be the case. The same applies to the other pillar on which this reform is based, namely the strengthening of alternative dispute resolution instruments. I agree with the idea of facilitating and promoting mediation and assisted negotiation, for goodness sake. But this cannot be an obligation, which you, on the other hand, extend further. Citizens have the right to appeal to a judge to see their disputes resolved and to obtain the protection of their rights. They can be directed, but not obliged to turn to other instruments, among other things with mediators not always up to their task (let's say clearly). Everyone can be mediators: you have actually included in the norm the need, for those who do not have a degree in legal sciences, to attend at least one refresher course. And thank God! On the other hand, we have proposed that mediators should at least have the right to exercise their legal profession in order to give quality to this alternative resolution tool. Of course, however, our amendment was rejected, there was no doubt about that. So yes to incentives and no to obligation. The most serious point of this reform, however, is the absurd and unmotivated compression of the rights of the parties, with a system of decadence and foreclosure that you have only slightly mitigated with the amendments that have been approved in the Commission. All the more serious are these decadences and foreclosures, because they always concern only the parties and their defenders and never the judges for the non-respect of the terms on their part: never a provision, a sanction or a reminder for the judges who do not respect the times. What's the point of bringing all this forward to the first hearing, if the judge makes a one-year or two postponement? Moreover, the terms indicated are obviously authorising and not perempting. There would be a lot more to say. For God's sake, there are also measures in this bill that we share, especially those concerning the establishment of the family court. There was a draft law in my name which contained this proposal and I am glad that we have finally reached the establishment of this court in the matter of trust. There are certainly important and acceptable rules on enforcement. Also in the field of arbitration, tax incentives have finally been introduced. The government was against my proposal and then you finally repented, all the better, as you did on the fact that you cannot anticipate the liberation of the house at the time of the award, but you must remain firm to the decree of transfer. The government was against this, too, and luckily it repented. We agree on some reforms concerning notifications, but not on others. I am going to conclude, Mr President, but I happen to represent the only opposition in this House, so I would like to ask you a few more seconds. While it is true that you have eliminated negative procedural consequences for those who remain absent from the trial, there are still rules for which the judge can draw evidence only because a party does not appear. Even there are rules that impose financial penalties, up to 10,000 euros, on those who appeal make an application for suspension of the enforceability of the judgment of first instance and if he sees it rejected. Do you really think that these rules will speed up the process, or is this not the obvious symptom of a prejudice that still exists against those who exercise the right in court? Thank you for the time you have given me, Mr President, for these reasons we express all our perplexities, hoping that we will not have to find ourselves next Tuesday again with the manna of confidence, because it would be extremely serious that on such an important issue, even epochal, we wanted to compress the parliamentary confrontation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u33	Colleagues, I am obliged to remind you that no photographs can be taken in this House. If they have been done, they shall remain personal and shall not be disclosed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the approval at first reading to the Senate of the delegation to the Government for the efficiency of the civil process is part of the broader framework of a reform of our justice system which also includes the judiciary, thus the organisation and the necessary revisions of the rites and codes, as well as of some substantial parts, such as tax justice, criminal justice and the reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The single, clear and priority objective is to restore the Italian process to a model of efficiency and competitiveness that will bring the unfortunately lost confidence of citizens in the functioning of justice. A more modern and efficient legal system is, moreover, essential for the creation of an environment conducive to investment and economic activity and is able, in the end, to generate a positive flywheel for our gross domestic product. This is precisely why the Next Generation EU Plan puts the issue of justice among the pillars of action that each country will have to put in place in order to be able to take full advantage of European resources. When a party acts in civil proceedings, it does so in order to be recognized a right, to demand a credit, to obtain a fair compensation, to renegotiate a contract or to regularize relations become pathological in a scheme then decided by the judge. These are situations that are part of the daily life of each of us. For many citizens and for many businesses to obtain recognition of that right, of a sum of money or to solve the disease of legal and property situations means often being able to survive or continue to work dignifiedly. The excessive number of civil trials pending (more than 3 million to 30 June 2019), combined with the excessive number of those that have occurred, has created an unsurpassed clogging so far, thus imposing a reflection on the part of Government and Parliament, which correctly inspires - in my opinion - this reform of civil justice, i.e. to aim at simplifying some stages of the procedural rite.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u36	Comrade, you have to sit on the scrounge, because the attitude becomes dangerous too.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u37	Please, Senator Grasso, continue. You'll recover your time, sorry, but I had to get there. Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). I said that to focus on simplifying certain stages of the procedural rite and on the great potential of alternative instruments for resolving disputes is the reflection that inspires this reform of the procedural rite. One of the virtues of this reform, especially after the process of modification in the Commission and - I must say - the contribution of the opposition as well, as Senator Balboni himself has been able to recognise, is his ability to intervene in a complementary way both on the extra-process dimension and on the end-process dimension, also making the necessary organisational changes, such as the establishment of the office for the trial, in the hope that it will actually become the accelerator of the procedural system. As in the delegation for the criminal trial, the Government will have a year from the approval of the House - which I hope will happen as soon as possible - to adopt the decrees and finally make this reform executive. Attention, however: for the reform to achieve the desired effects, it is necessary to combine the precise reforms of the codes with digitization, improvement of the infrastructures, reorganization of the offices, increase of the competences of the administration, unit of mission in order to attack the systemic dysfunctions, also through that instrument of support to the activity of the magistrate which is the already mentioned office for the process, that it previews - let us be careful - an increase of total staff in national center of beyond 8.000 units, to be selected from 28,000 questions already introduced. I see a problem - I agree with Senator Balboni - the limit of three years for fixed-term contracts of some categories (most) of those who will be hired, especially considering that the professionalism that will be formed in these subjects may be lost in the meantime. However, I trust that, in the time that comes, we will be able to find solutions to make that implementation definitive, the reorganization of this important newness of the office of the process on which we aim so much. With regard to alternative instruments to ordinary judicial procedures, good work has been done on mediation and assisted negotiation as instruments for reconciling civil and commercial disputes. The delegation also encourages the use of these instruments by rethinking tax incentives, recognizing, for example, the tax credit in favour of mediation bodies, opening up the possibility that procedures are also carried out in telematic ways, extending legal aid to the State's expense also to mediation and negotiation; this leads to a true equality of citizens in the face of the law with the recourse to justice even of the least well-off people, who can thus see their rights recognized. It was also considered to extend the compulsory use of preventive mediation, which is already a prerequisite for many disputes, including other matters. The purpose of this extension is, of course, to ease as much as possible the burden of civil courts on matters which currently cling to its functioning, of course preserving the guarantees of the parties. With an amendment introduced in the Commission, there is a methodological criterion which I particularly feel I share: to verify, in the light of statistics and experimentation, whether or not to maintain mediation as a condition of processability in relation to individual subjects. In this way, given the hand, it will decide how to adapt institutions to reality, needs and results. In promoting the participation of the parties in mediation, the reform regulates the consequences of non-participation. Very often in fact some parts do not show up instrumentally at meetings just to blow them up and it is not possible that there are no consequences. On assisted negotiation, which, as we know, is a friendly agreement between the parties, in addition to simplification, appropriate guarantees are being made for extrajudicial education and criminal sanctions are also introduced for false declarations there. In order to encourage recourse to the institute, it is also established that the lawyer who has used extrajudicial investigation is paid more and that what, on the contrary, has committed abuse at this stage has serious disciplinary consequences. I do not have time to go into the merits of every technical part of the delegation law, which is really very wide, and I reserve the right to go into some other subject in the explanation of vote to illustrate other important novelties, such as the establishment of the Tribunal for persons, minors and the family, unification between the Court of Minors, justice for minors and ordinary court, which deals instead with the causes of separation and divorce. All these innovations will help us - hopefully - to strengthen that absolutely necessary balance between the 40% acceleration of the procedures that Europe demands of us and then the protection of the rights of the parties. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u38	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to adopt a fundamental reform in order to create the conditions for swift, fast and above all fair justice. The original wording of the Bonafede bill had nothing in the family process, demonstrating a very low sensitivity to the protection of minors, adolescents, vulnerable persons and people. The Draghi Government, first, and the Commission, then, have reversed the perspective, placing at the center of this reform precisely the person and the families, who for us in the center-right are the pillar of society and therefore must be adequately protected. Eighty years after its establishment, the Tribunal for the Minors finally disappears, where the judicial proceedings were not governed by any kind of rule, nor marked by defined procedural times and above all were characterized by the numerous interim measures which, in the end, for the long time in which they were intended to be applied, became definitive. This system was choking, as we have been complaining for years, with the constitutional principles of the right process. We at Forza Italia, together with other forces of the center-right, fought for years for the creation of a single judge specializing in the matter of family and person, subject to predetermined rules and above all equal throughout the national territory. Today we have finally reached a historic result, which rewards the constancy with which we have carried out our vision of justice to protect people. The reform cancels another structure of our system, Article 403 of the Civil Code, which removes the child from his family by virtue of a measure of the public authority, which had been conceived in the last century for emergency situations and which part of the policy never wanted to touch for the interests it involved. 12.04 p.m. (Following RONZULLI). Already two years ago I had presented a bill to reform the foster care system, so as to limit the overpower of social services and, above all, to ensure that a measure that so strongly affects the personal freedom of the children involved and their parents was subject to the supervision of the magistrate. I am therefore very pleased that this proposal of mine will soon become State law. We will no longer see the uncontrolled, indiscriminate and only apparently lawful abduction of children to their families of origin. In my capacity as President of the Bicameral Committee on Childhood and Adolescence, I have long pointed out the need to introduce specific causes of incompatibility for the courts' honorary judges for minors and social workers in all custody proceedings of the child outside the family. The delegation law has accepted this request, which will break that insane bond that someone would have wanted to maintain among the subjects that suggest - and, sometimes, they have - the inclusion of minors in communities or in family homes and those who manage the same communities and the same family houses, often deriving from the management of very important sums of money. Finally Close the Biblical Era [[Applause]] , of the children's business torn from their parents, of false accusations, of the exploitation of the pain and suffering of children in conditions of discomfort. Finally, let us close the age of all-powerful honorary judges: subjects who, without adequate legal preparation, so far managed the fate of dozens and dozens of children. We close the age of psychologists who decided discreetly about the lives of minors, in contempt of the rules of due process. More than welcome is the balance of the text on violence and assisted violence. The protection requirements of the victim are in fact reconciled with that of defending the alleged abuser or aggressor, in compliance with the principle of not guilty that someone among our colleagues would want to cancel, not bearing in mind that in certain situations the accusations of violence can be formulated even or only for instrumental purposes. By accepting many of the amendments proposed by Forza Italia, a very well marked scheme has been created, which finally sends to the attic the so-called chamber ritual, which is very often responsible for the endless times of family judgments. The court must determine the first hearing in which provisional measures will be taken within 90 days of the filing of the application and, if it does not, its failure to comply will weigh on the assessment of professionalism for the purposes of career advancement. This is a unique forecast of fact, which makes it clear that the importance of justice for people, minors and families has finally been transposed. Waiting for families means mortifying their higher interest, which reserves children worthy of protection above all the highest quality. Finally, the law precisely regulates the role of the child's special curator. At last the children involved will have their own voice: it is a very important novelty, which enhances the social function of the lawyer called to represent the minor in the judgment. We are called to start a Copernican revolution, which finally overturns the perspective: we will no longer have a master state that takes children away from their parents, separates, judges and often mistakes, which has fattened clientele and favored illegality. [[Applause]] We will have a system that empowers those who are called to care for children, our most precious and delicate resource and our future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ostellari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have also talked about the work that has been done on this important measure, and I renew my thanks to all those who have worked; I also do so as President of the Commission. We know very well how many days we have spent discussing an important measure for this country, for the Italians and for a series of indications and criteria useful for a reform that will serve to restart. That is the goal and goal that we must all achieve. I would remind you that we have also achieved this through the work of the opposition, which in many ways has faced us and in many amendments has adapted to the request of the majority, which has therefore worked exclusively with the aim of achieving the best reform. This was also what we asked at the time of the Second Count's Government in the face of the hypothesis of bringing to the examination of the Assembly that first draft delegation law, which lacked many premises that today instead are contained in this provision. The work we have done in this group, in this new majority, is what you have been able to see and verify in the proposals which we are examining today and which I hope will be final. As President of the Commission, but also as a Member of Parliament and as an Italian, I do not accept that anyone is going against it. Here we must all try to achieve the goal and I also address those who have still reminded us that there would be no opinion of the Accounting Office; Mr Pesco, we are all here to help you, to try to reach the goal, so tell us if there is something wrong and we are here to help you too and reach together that goal that the whole country asks us to reach. [[Applause]] We need to achieve this goal because unfortunately our country, even in recent interventions, works, European studies, especially at the input of the European Commission, has always been placed at one of the last places due to the slowness and chronic lack of staff in our judicial system. Recently, an article of July 8, 2021 placed our country at the last place in relation to the delivery of final civil sentences; too many years divide the beginning of a procedure, of a question, from its end: it takes 531 days for a judgment of first instance and in this field we are in the penultimate place in Europe, (the last is Greece with 637 days); to arrive at an appeal judgment it takes a total of 791 days. These figures are worrying and, if we compare them with those of other foreign countries, we notice that in Germany it takes 192 days, in France about 300 days, in the United Kingdom 210. That is why other countries are more competitive than we are and that is why we need such a reform. Today we must speed up and certainly not wait or create problems even between Commissions. We must accelerate because if we are to achieve that goal we must change gear and push on the accelerator, not only because the PNRR asks us to do so, but the companies, the Italians, ask us to do so by those who work daily in the world of justice. Slowness causes losses in the economy: justice and economy are linked together. [[Applause]] The delays are, of course, measurable with the numbers and we have to reason on these delays. Rapider civil justice, compared to what has been measured by recent studies, is worth €18 billion a year and certainly today the figure is much higher. A recovery of this kind, with a faster rate and a greater increase in GDP, also affects work, with employment growth being measured and estimated at 3%. If justice works better, our economy works better, GDP rises and, consequently, the country's employment rate. All this must also be read on the contrary, asking us what damage has caused the slowness of the country. From this point of view, it has been quantified a block of foreign investments, equal to 170 billion euros, that have not arrived in our country, because it is not considered credible. To get to have a credible country, we must all be united towards the goal and goal we were talking about before and, to do so, the more we are and the less mistakes we make in drafting the measure and the better. That's why you worked so hard. Perhaps something could also be even better - for charity, we do not exclude it - but much has been done, thanks to the commitment of all. There are many examples of what justice can do and how much justice affects within our economic world. One of the last examples that I want to give you, we have been reminded by a recent study by the World Bank, in 2019, concerning the estimate of the time it takes to recover commercial credits. In Italy it takes about one hundred and twenty days to obtain a reply for a commercial credit, in Spain five hundred and ten and in Germany four hundred and ninety-nine. From this you understand how important and fundamental are not only the quality, that we have in our country today, but also the speed. So let's go ahead on this road. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u42	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u43	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by thanking you. This work, which engaged the Justice Commission and the Senate for many months, began with a text prepared by the Government Count 2, and continued with a ministerial table and intense work by a different and wider majority. There have been heated but profitable comparisons. I think it can be said that all political sensibilities have been satisfied. This has been an important and substantial work, which will affect legal practitioners for the next few years, I hope. In fact, I hope that this reform of the civil process, unlike others, will last a long time. This is a very important reform, because it is part of the PNRR, on which the relaunch of the country really depends. Mr President, I would ask that I be able to deliver the written text of my speech, so that it is annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting and so I will continue my speech with my arms in order to recall the most important points. It is really difficult to talk about the whole law that delegates to the reform of the civil process in detail. Of course, we finally hope for faster processes. This is the fundamental approach: a faster and more effective civil process. Enough with the denial of rights, because slow trials even in the civilian mean denied rights. It is no longer conceivable for legal practitioners, as I myself am, to think of seeing the conclusion of a civil judgment after twenty years, sometimes in the matter of hereditary successions have touched even thirty years. It penalizes the part that is trying to assert its rights, but also the part that is waiting to know if it has to pay or not. We have truly come to the disaster, to the collapse of the justice system. Let's hope we got it right. The first formulations, especially those of the Government, certainly required an exaggerated acceleration, especially with regard to the process of first-degree cognition and the first hearing, perhaps in that case even prejudiced what is always the necessary right of defence of the citizens and the contradictory. From the point of view of the citizen, as members of the Justice Commission, we have also tried to mitigate this acceleration and we have certainly found a point of fall. Certainly in the introductory acts it will be necessary to include all the thema decisionndum, the means of proof, but certainly with a greater elasticity than the first formulation. This will allow much faster times of justice. We have also continued our work on the other phases of the cognition process. I am thinking, for example, of the decision-making phase. However, we have also thought of a different, modern justice, a private justice, but always of course with safeguards; I think of mediation, negotiation, always with professionals. We have thought of citizens, so different tax incentives that will allow citizens to use these alternative tools to courts and jurisdiction, in a quieter way, without having to spend too much. These tax incentives will even be provided on the compensation of lawyers. In this regard, I would also like to mention an amendment of mine to monitor the use of these instruments and to provide for a single text for all these instruments complementary to jurisdiction. We have also thought of protections, as Senator Pesco has already mentioned, which preceded me, in the matter of real estate execution, so with the tracking of those who participate systematically in auctions to avoid even mafia infiltrations. We have thought of a telematic process, so we have maintained what was already planned during this pandemic, namely the use of remote hearings, which is therefore becoming structural, but also in this case with correctives. In particular, I have personally raised the problem of vulnerable and fragile people, so the people to whom the civil court must apply a protection measure - I am thinking of the interdict, the disabled - for whom it must appoint figures as the support administrator. These more vulnerable people obviously need to be seen in the presence and so we have established in this provision. Again, I would like to recall of course a fundamental institute such as that of the office of the trial, which is a new way of seeing the judiciary, that is no longer the individual magistrate, no longer the magistrate over the chair, but the magistrate who will finally have a staff and will use young resources prepared not only with legal studies, but also technical (I think of engineers, accountants). We have also set up the family court, an institution that has been expected for twenty years and perhaps even more. My colleague Caliendo says 30 years. Family Court: therefore, no longer the distinction between ordinary court and court for minors, but an institution that allows judges to have a high degree of specialization in these matters, which is fundamental to dealing with sensitive cases such as separations, divorces and entrusts, with greater attention to the child. Here too, I cannot help but stress, as other colleagues have also done, the importance of listening to the child, especially when relations are conflicting. So, the judge who listens to the minor. A reformed civil process serves and is also necessary to combat this now disastrous phenomenon of feminicide, this massacre that is affecting women. We now have a case a day, as Senator Valente also remembered. Even yesterday, a woman with a small child killed by a man. There is an asymmetry in the report, which must be fought absolutely, which must certainly be fought with cultural instruments, but also the civil process in this helps. In fact, we have included so many different rules in the section on family law, precisely in order to protect women, thus also implementing the Istanbul Convention, which will have to be implemented further. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that what we have not been able to include in the delegation law has been improved and included in the delegated decrees and that there too there is the same consensus in the work of all political forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u44	Senator Evangelista, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech so that it remains in the proceedings. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Rossomando.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u45	Mr President, I am also speaking on behalf of my two rapporteurs. We ask that we be able to respond and listen to the Government's replies at the sitting on Tuesday next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u46	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-360.ana.u48	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 21 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 12.23 a.m.)
