ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 5 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u3	I communicate that on 26 August 2021 the Minister for Relations with Parliament sent the following draft law of initiative of the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Justice: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 118 of 24 August 2021 on urgent measures in the field of corporate crisis and corporate consolidation, as well as further urgent measures in the field of justice" (2371), already submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 24 August 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u4	I say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the President of the Republic, by his own decree adopted today on my proposal, has accepted the resignations resigned by the President of the Republic. Mr Claudio DUIGON from the post of State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. F.to Mario Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, as is sadly known, Senator Paolo Saviane passed away on 20 August. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence in memory of the late colleague, whose memory will be more accomplished on a forthcoming occasion. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause]] The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is hereby authorised to convene.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u6	The next item is: Information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Minister for Defence on developments in Afghanistan. I call Mr Di Maio, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u7	Madam President, Senators and Senators, after updating the Copasir and the Foreign and Defence Commissions, I believe it is essential to continue with Minister Guerini in this House an intensive and fruitful dialogue with Parliament. Before even as parliamentarians or members of the government, what is happening in Afghanistan calls us into question as women and men. The heartbreaking images of the refugees and the expectations of peace and development of an entire people overturned in a few days do not leave us indifferent. It certainly does not leave us indifferent to the prospect that the progress which has been laboriously achieved over twenty years, especially for women, can be cancelled. We work to ensure that this does not happen by remaining at the side of the Afghan people. This crisis reflects the need for more effective and inclusive multilateralism and at the same time the need for strong European cohesion and for the Union's strategic and operational autonomy in the wake of our consolidated alliances in full synergy with its partners. The response to the events of recent weeks in Afghanistan immediately required an unprecedented international coordination effort. Security, management of migration flows, counter-terrorism and drug trafficking, humanitarian assistance and protection of universal rights are challenges that can only be addressed through a multi-dimensional approach. For weeks we have been in constant contact with the main international partners using all available formats, from the European Union to the G7, from NATO to the United Nations. A new ministerial meeting is scheduled tomorrow with a widely inclusive format co-chaired by Secretary of State Blinken. On a bilateral level too, the contacts are continuous, of President Draghi and mine. In addition to my fellow Europeans, I have had telephone talks and meetings with my counterparts in the United States, Russia, China, Canada and India over the past few weeks. A few hours ago I returned from a mission in the region, which took me to Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Qatar and Pakistan. I have discussed regional stability, counter-terrorism and the fight against drug trafficking with the various partners. We have decided to develop bilateral cooperation on two fronts: greater synergy between our intelligence and humanitarian assistance to refugees, with the aim of building a common path to protect the civilian population and the most vulnerable. In the next few days we will start the necessary operational contacts. We believe in the need to involve all international actors who can contribute to the development of a sustainable strategy towards Afghanistan. As the Presidency-in-Office, we have proposed the wider and more inclusive G20 platform to address the main challenges of the Afghan dossier. We are examining conditions, modalities and timing for an extraordinary summit dedicated to Afghanistan which could be preceded by preparatory meetings of Foreign Ministers. The importance of involving the G20 was also recognised at the informal meeting of EU Foreign Ministers which I attended last week in Slovenia. A week ago, the first phase, the emerging phase, was closed, in response to a succession of events much faster than the entire international community had anticipated. The priority was evacuation: within a few days we saved and transferred to Italy 5,011 people, of whom 4,890 Afghans, more than half women and children, among those who collaborated with Italian institutions and belong to vulnerable categories. The continuous air bridge, built thanks to the synergy between all the allies, has allowed to get out of Afghanistan altogether more than 120,000 people, including entire families. Italy, among the European countries, has evacuated the largest number of Afghan citizens. Minister Guerini will be able to give more details, but let me reiterate the deep gratitude of all of us to the Armed Forces, the diplomatic corps and intelligence. [[Applause]] The success of an operation against time and under extreme conditions is the result of close coordination between the foreign, defence and intelligence sectors, the tireless and courageous commitment of our diplomats, military, collaboration with civil society organisations, but also the support of our international regional partners, primarily the United States, Qatar, Kuwait, Pakistan, who have not hesitated to activate extraordinary procedures to help us. To these countries and to these governments we express our sincere gratitude. After the emergency, we have now started a new phase of crisis planning and management. Italy will continue to help Afghans who wish to leave the country and have its title. The operations will of course have to be conducted differently, given the final departure of the military contingents and the closure of our embassy in Kabul at the present time. We are moving on several fronts: on the one hand we work with the countries that will collaborate for the future management of the airport of Kabul, in particular Qatar and Turkey; the Minister of Foreign Affairs qatarino has updated me on the technical assistance provided for the restoration of the operation of the port of call; already for a few days have been restarted the internal flights. The Minister also showed confidence in the restoration of airport security. On the other hand, we are interacting with neighbouring countries for the identification of humanitarian routes that allow expatriation for those arriving from Afghanistan by land. In addition to the subject of evacuations, the multilateral dialogue continues on a daily basis with political and technical meetings on other fundamental profiles, primarily on diplomatic presence in Kabul after the temporary closure of most embassies. Now we have decided to move our embassy to Doha as a diplomatic office, in line with what other countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada and the Netherlands and Spain are doing. I had the opportunity to speak to my Qatari counterpart, who confirmed maximum cooperation. It seems to us an effective option because it allows contacts with potential interlocutors, with the countries of the area and with our partners who have already relocated their representative points for Afghanistan to Qatar. We are also reflecting on the creation of a joint presence in Afghanistan, a core of officials from several countries under the umbrella of the European Union or possibly the United Nations, with mainly consular functions and serving as an immediate contact point. This would be an innovative solution, for which effective preventive coordination will be necessary both for security aspects and for the need to define a clear mandate. Whatever mode you choose will in any case have to be inclusive, shared with all countries potentially interested in contributing. The second issue at the heart of international coordination concerns the attitude to be maintained towards the Taliban and more generally the future Afghan leadership. Italy's approach is first and foremost part of a shared approach at European level, we discussed it last week at the informal meeting of the Union's Foreign Ministers in Slovenia. In order to continue our support for the Afghan people, we have agreed that the Taliban should be judged on the basis of their actions and not on the basis of declarations, which we intend to measure on the basis of five parameters. One: the repudiation of terrorism and the cooperation of the fight against drug trafficking. Two: respect for human rights (especially women and minorities), the rule of law and freedom of the media. Three: the establishment of an inclusive and representative government. Four: the guarantee of unconditional and secure humanitarian access for international organisations, in particular the United Nations. Five: respect for the commitment made, aimed at ensuring the free passage for those who wish to leave the country, in line with Resolution 2593, approved by the United Nations Security Council on 30 August. These concepts are also widely shared in the countries I have visited these days. Of course, what we are seeing in Afghanistan in these hours is not encouraging at all. On the basis of these fundamental conditions, our approach must combine operational pragmatism with firmness on principles. To monitor compliance with these conditions and to calibrate, as a result, our common attitude towards the Afghan authorities will also allow us to use effectively the levers we have towards them. One of the most important levers available is economic and financial assistance. We must not forget, in fact, that the European Union is the first donor of development aid and, for this reason, concerted action at European level is particularly crucial. The third point on which coordinated action is essential is regional stability and international security. For example, the Foreign Minister, Mr Tagiko, has conveyed to me the concern and serious sense of vulnerability of his country along the border with Afghanistan. In order to monitor this border, Tajikistan has called more than 20,000 reservists into active service in the army. We must prevent the risk that the Afghan crisis will have a destabilising negative impact on neighbouring countries, with implications that could go far beyond the regional dimension. I am referring first of all to the fight against terrorism. The attacks of 26 August at Kabul International Airport, with their heavy toll of victims and wounded, show that terrorism is a real and immediate threat. In addition to the Isis-Khorasan, which claimed the attacks, extremist groups affiliated to al-Qaeda operate in the country with which the Taliban sometimes maintain an ambiguous approach. We have been fighting terrorism in Afghanistan for 20 years and we have managed to achieve important results even at the cost of the lives of 54 Italian soldiers, to whom our memory and gratitude go. [[Applause]] The country cannot and must not return to being a safe haven for terrorists. We must make alliances and involve all the actors (especially those in the region) who share this same concern, as well as Russia and China. The fight against drug trafficking is equally important in terms of safety. Narco-trafficking is an important source of Taliban funding. The Afghan opium production from which heroin is obtained represents about 85 percent of the world's production. We are considering initiatives in the field of combating drug trafficking in conjunction with the relevant UN agencies, starting with the Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention. Italy intends to contribute to the international management of the Afghan crisis with concrete proposals, articulated in a national action plan in support of the Afghan people. This is a choral effort of all our administrations, which must also involve civil society and local and regional authorities, whose contribution is indispensable. It will also benefit from international resources and instruments, such as the European Union and the United Nations. The plan that I have already shared in its basic lines in the Council of Ministers is by its very nature evolving and will have to be progressively adapted to the developments on the ground and to the needs that should arise. The first meeting between administrations for the definition of the plan, coordinated by Farnesina, took place a week ago and made it possible to identify the five pillars on which this national strategy is based. The first concerns humanitarian assistance. Secretary-General Guterres has convened an international conference on Monday to discuss Afghanistan's emergency. The current crisis has added to the consequences of a prolonged conflict, the effects of drought and famine and the impact of the pandemic. One in three Afghans has food problems, a situation that affects half of children under the age of five, while internally displaced people have been more than 550,000 since the beginning of the year. We must make every effort to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe. Last Thursday, on my proposal, the Council of Ministers allocated EUR 120 million to resilience initiatives in favour of the Afghan population, to assistance to refugees in neighbouring countries, as well as to Italian participation in the implementation of international crisis response programmes in Afghanistan. These funds were originally intended for the training of Afghan security forces in the framework of the mission resolution. I hope once again that Parliament will support the allocation of these resources by the end of the year as soon as possible. We are reviewing the programming of development cooperation in order to redirect the funds provided for Afghanistan in this case too towards humanitarian interventions. The resources for 2021 will be increased from €21 million to €31 million in total, targeting them for food assistance initiatives, maternal-child health services and the fight against child malnutrition and, in general, for the protection of the most vulnerable sections of the population such as women, minors and internally displaced persons. Interventions may take place on the multilateral channel, taking into account the effective possibility for organisations of the United Nations system or the Red Cross family and Red Crescent to operate safely in Afghanistan and neighbouring countries. We are working to ensure that international organisations have full, safe and unhindered humanitarian access to the country, ensuring that aid reaches the direct and effective recipients. I have discussed this in my contacts with the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Filippo Grandi. The presence and operation of UN specialised agencies in Afghanistan is our priority. We also continue to work under the COVAX programme, so that the action to respond to the pandemic in Afghanistan, where 2.5 million doses have already been delivered, continues to be more effective. Among the most in need of humanitarian assistance are displaced persons and refugees. The second pillar of the national plan is, therefore, the development of a structural response to the flow of refugees from Afghanistan to neighbouring countries and potentially to Europe. For Afghans in a particularly vulnerable situation, especially women and minors, we are working to verify the possibility of implementing safe routes towards neighbouring countries, including with the help of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organisation for Migration. In Tajikistan, I met UNHCR representatives to see the situation directly on the ground. In Qatar I visited one of the facilities of first reception and transit of civilians from Afghanistan, touching with hand the important effort put in place by the country in coordination with the United States to facilitate humanitarian operations. In Pakistan, where we set up a location room in the embassy for the management of Afghan refugees, I had to visit the Afghanistan border in Torkham. From the surveys I have carried out and as confirmed to me by the partners in development cooperation on the ground, at least for the time being, from the point of view of migratory flows, the situation remains under control, but the risk is that the economic and food crisis, even in view of winter, may trigger wider flows. All the representatives of the governments I met expressed my greatest concern at the risk of proliferation of the terrorist threat. In recent days, there have been some attacks on the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. That is why we have decided to strengthen the coordination between our intelligence. I have set up a coordination table with civil society organisations on the reception in Italy and on humanitarian assistance to Afghan refugees in the countries of the area. The table, which will meet again on 9 September, chaired by the deputy minister Marina Sereni, will provide an important added value for the system of proposals and capabilities. We will mobilise the fund of the Farnesina for migration in order to develop activities aimed at strengthening the capacities of neighbouring countries for managing migratory flows and receiving migrants and refugees. The priorities are assistance to women, human rights training, the fight against human traffickers. The aim is to support local institutions and communities, but it must be included in a broader strategy for managing migration flows that Europe is called upon to put in place. We intend to use as many European instruments as possible. We will call for Afghanistan to be included as a priority country in the refugee resettlement programme financed through the European Union's Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. At my initiative, the United Nations High Commissioner for Major Refugees was invited to the European Union's informal Foreign Council meeting last week, as I recalled, to reflect on a comprehensive strategy of action to address the Afghan crisis in its various political, security, humanitarian and migratory aspects. Reading the Afghan crisis only through the lens of migratory risk is reductive and would be a political mistake in the first place; however, in the light of the consequences that the humanitarian situation could have in the short and medium term, it is necessary to ensure the maximum European sharing of the migratory impact. In view of the hesitations of some Member States, we believe that a more ambitious and courageous vision of the role that the Union can play, even assuming higher costs, is needed. The third pillar of the Italian action plan includes training initiatives. I am referring, for example, to scholarships or reception at Italian universities of students and students from Afghanistan. The Ministry of University and Research has already started a widespread survey of all universities in this regard. We are also working to extend to Afghan students the University Corridors for Refugees (Unicore) project, which provides for the creation of university corridors of study and integration for refugee students. Farnesina will ensure maximum collaboration in the preparation of these paths, enhancing the right to study as an instrument of reception and integration and putting to use what has been successfully experienced in recent years. There are numerous demonstrations of solidarity between Italian civil society and students from Afghanistan. The Farnesina, in conjunction with the other administrations, has undertaken an action of rationalization and coordination of the different types of offers from universities, foundations and non-governmental and private organizations, to channel them towards concrete projects for the reception in Italy of Afghan students. At school level, the Ministry of Education has already put to study the most appropriate ways to ensure the provision of training services for Afghan children who have arrived in Italy, many of whom do not know our language. The fourth pillar concerns human rights initiatives, with particular attention to women. We intend to promote appropriate initiatives in international forums, starting with the United Nations, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of Afghans. We will work to try to build a consensus within the Human Rights Council on the establishment of a monitoring mechanism, including through the promotion of a joint declaration at the forthcoming 48th Council meeting, which will begin next Monday. We are also working on organising an event on the status and rights of women in Afghanistan at the next ministerial week of the United Nations General Assembly in New York. We also want to mobilise the resources allocated to the Fourth National Action Plan for the implementation of the UN Agenda for Women, Peace and Security, including initiatives for Afghanistan. The fifth pillar relates to political-diplomatic initiatives. It is the central element because it allows the progressive development of a strategy shared with international partners and creates the conditions to facilitate their implementation. I have already reported on the action that as Italy we are continuing, starting with President Draghi, in the various international forums and in bilateral contacts. More generally, in perspective, the Afghan experience must make us reflect above all as Member States of the Union and NATO. The need to strengthen and use the instruments of the European Union's common security and defence policy is all the more evident today. The European Union has demonstrated, in the face of the pandemic and its economic and social consequences, an effective and timely response capacity. The actions taken, both on the ground of vaccination campaigns and on the ground of support for social crises and economic recovery, confirm the goodness of the choices made towards shared sovereignty at continental level (...). The same commitment must now concern the European Union's contribution to the cause of peace of development, security and international stability. These are the words of the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella. I am convinced that as Europeans we must have operational capabilities to deal with the critical situations that threaten our interests and our stability. We are working on this through the development of a strategic compass. I want to make this clear: we believe in the need for European strategic autonomy, but also in the complementarity between the common security and defence policy and the Atlantic Alliance. There is no contradiction between these two aspects, but synergy. In NATO, too, we decided to conduct an honest and in-depth analysis of the lessons learned with the conclusion of the Resolute support mission. We had already launched a wide-ranging reflection on the future of NATO, called NATO 2030, which also includes a review of the so-called strategic concept: a reflection and revision made even more necessary and urgent after the tragic events in Afghanistan and to which Italy must make a substantial contribution. President, senators and senators, all national and international efforts at this time converge on a common and priority objective: to preserve the progress in terms of human rights and civil liberties that Afghan society has made over the last twenty years, a heritage of values and human capital built with great sacrifices and investments. We can't let this go missing. We have supported the development of the infrastructure network with the construction of roads linking Kabul within the country. We rehabilitated hospitals and built wells and water systems. In 2005, only 23% of the population had access to electricity, 98 percent in 2017. Infrastructures are crucial for development, but what has been formed in the minds and hearts of the Afghans is even more so and is more difficult to dismantle. The Afghan society today has reached a level of connection that makes it unthinkable to return to a situation of closure and isolation similar to that of twenty years ago. Through UNESCO we have restored the Educational Radio and Television (ERTV), which has provided the Ministry of Education with a tool to conduct programmes of training and education at a distance. Thanks to our commitment and that of our partners and allies, the literacy rate of young people in 2018 reached 65%, according to UNICEF data. The same international organization tells us that in twenty years the number of children in school has increased from 1 million to 9 million. Mortality under the age of five has more than halved: from 128 children every 1,000 in 2000 to 60 in 2019; just as the maternal mortality rate has more than halved, from 1,450 women who died in 2000, every 100,000 children who were born alive, to 638 in 2017. Between 2001 and 2018 the female enrolment rate in primary school jumped from a value close to zero to over 80%. Women have become an important part of the Afghan workforce, occupying more than a quarter of the seats in Parliament. Also the help given to some of Herat's footballers to get them to Italy, for which I thank the bodies and organizations that have collaborated, reminds us of the spaces that Afghan women have been able to conquer in these years. The freedom to do sport is among the seeds that we have planted and that we must continue to cultivate. In twenty years we have helped form a generation with a different vision of society, based on the fundamental rights of each individual. They are that vision and force that now push courageous women to manifest in Herat as in Kabul. Not abandoning the Afghan people is our interest and above all our moral duty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u8	I call the Minister for Defence, Mr Guerini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to address immediately a grateful thought to our armed forces for the extraordinary commitment, the great professionalism and the profound humanity they have once again demonstrated in dealing with the Afghan crisis. [[Applause]] I am sure that I will also interpret your sentiment in this due tribute. In welcoming to Ciampino the return of the last flight, together with the Undersecretaries and the Presidents of the Defence Commissions, I told them that the Italians are proud of the extraordinary humanitarian enterprise that they have conducted and which has honored our country. After Maio's colleague, whom I would like to thank here for the intense collaboration of these weeks, I will write my speech on the developments of the Afghan crisis with the aim of illustrating the actions put in place by the Defense and of sharing a key reading for what has happened and an interpretative key to the possible developments of the situation and its repercussions on the future of defence and security policy in the context of the current geopolitical scenario. In retracing briefly the actions implemented by the Defense in the aftermath of the announcement of the conclusion of the NATO mission, I bring you today the final summary of the evacuation operation of Afghan citizens, referring for details to my communications last 24 August to the Foreign Joint Commissions and Defence. Operation Aquila omnia has brought to Italy 5,011 people, including the staff of our embassy, and other Italian citizens, of whom 4,890 Afghans. We are faced with a far greater number than the direct collaborators of our contingents, our diplomatic mission and their families, since the transport activities have also concerned activists of human rights and the rights of women, journalists, members of the institutions and collaborators of the Italian non-governmental organizations present in the territory in recent years, identified with similar criteria and shared with the other Allied countries. It was a purely military operation, which involved a considerable organizational and operational effort, under the leadership of the operational command of interforce summit, in a difficult and sometimes non-permissive scenario; a complex operation: ninety flights were carried out through a substantial deployment of air vehicles, between C-130 aircraft and KC-767 aircraft. The presence in Kabul of a joint evacuation task force, consisting of 119 soldiers, ensured the security framework, health support and strategic command, control and communications functions, in close and effective coordination with the diplomatic and military personnel of our embassy. The Defense, within an organizational framework distributed in Italy and in the theatre operating, has seen engaged a device of more than 1,500 units for transport activities, logistics and support to the reception and management of the refugees (for this last need have been made available also military structures). Let me say that this was an extraordinary undertaking, first of all the women and men in uniform, who worked with dedication and professionalism. [[Applause]] Certainly it is not the case to make rankings - I am not even passionate - but I think it is right to record that Italy has been the country of the European Union that has evacuated the largest number of Afghan citizens, thanks to the joint work of the various groups of the State involved. All these activities were also carried out in close coordination with the allies through effective and mutual support. I would like to highlight mainly the cooperation with the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany, together with which we have been able to respond to further requests for transport from the European Union and other countries. I would like to extend my sincere thanks to them here too. As my colleague Mr Di Maio has already pointed out, the contributions of our regional partners, such as Qatar, Kuwait and Pakistan, have been equally fundamental. This willingness is the result of strong bilateral relations which are particularly significant, including in terms of technical and military terms. At Washington's request, we have made available the bases of Aviano and Sigonella for the transit of Afghan civilians to the United States. Finally, within the Atlantic Alliance, we have offered military police, health care and teams specialized in civil and military cooperation and in the control of airspace, to contribute to the activity that NATO may decide to conduct on its territory to support further reception and humanitarian support activities. The dramatic images of Kabul Airport are still before our eyes. The satisfaction of the company carried out is accompanied by the strong regret and concern for the people who have failed to leave and who aspire to build a future outside Afghanistan; also for this, the Defense will ensure the full availability for the conduct of any further evacuation activities, according to modalities and timing that will necessarily have to be weighted and coordinated within the framework of the political-diplomatic initiatives illustrated a moment ago by Minister Di Maio. The evolution of the situation in Afghanistan has taken the whole international community by surprise, for the speed with which the political and military context has changed and for the consequent and dramatic humanitarian implications. There was a common awareness of the risk of a Taliban offensive in the phase immediately after the withdrawal. But, at the same time, NATO and most analysts estimated that the effectiveness of the Afghan security forces would be at least sufficient to contain it: an estimate based on the large numerical superiority of the Afghan forces, on the adequate availability of equipment and on positive assessments of the operation and preparation of the local military, which in recent years had demonstrated an autonomous operational capacity, mainly the result of the commitment in the training activities carried out by the NATO forces even in complex situations. However, it is clear that things did not go as expected. The Taliban moved to quickly acquire objectives of high operational and tactical value, such as border crossings, the main towns and communication routes to the capital: a result greatly facilitated by the almost non-existent resistance of the Afghan security and defence forces that, in some cases, did not engage the opponents in combat, with an unpredictable and unexpected conduct for its modalities and for the forces in the field. We must ask ourselves, then, what has happened and what has not worked. We are talking about well-trained and well-equipped armed forces that, over the years, have distinguished themselves by courageously fighting, with great sacrifices and numerous losses, against the Taliban, Al Qaeda and Isis. While the Doha agreements and the conclusion of the Resolution support mission may have had an impact from a motivational point of view, the reasons for the breakdown of the security forces are primarily to be found in the direct consequence of a clear lack of cohesion and in a poor sense of identity, particularly ascribable to the attitude of the Republican leadership that, for several reasons, has not been able to play that authoritative and representative leadership role that the situation required. This is one of the first and most important lessons that, in my opinion, we must take and deepen after the experience in Afghanistan. The decision to conclude the Resolution support mission was shared within NATO, of course within a confrontation that saw different accents among the allies, but also the desire to be consistent with the value of the Alliance's cohesion. I have already had the opportunity to recall that, during last February's ministerial meeting, I had represented the need to assess the confirmation of the presence of the forces of the Alliance even beyond the deadline of 1 May, provided for by the agreements concluded by the American administration. Already then, the achievement of the political security conditions provided for in the agreement appeared far from being satisfied, given the stalemate of the talks, the significant increase in attacks on Afghan security forces and the targeted assassins of representatives of the institutions, the media and civil society. We have always considered that intra-Afghan dialogue and the maintenance of republican institutions were the indispensable conditions for the future of the country, reaffirming our orientation, also shared by other European countries, about the need to correlate the decisions on the definitive conclusion of the mission with tangible progress of these conditions. The difficulty to reach them has led, in the assessments of the American administration, to the choice of associating the return to a temporal approach, time based, establishing the conclusion of the Resolution support mission on May 1 and articulating the return of the forces by the highly symbolic date of September 11. Clearly, this change of approach, due to the failure of operational, critical and functional capabilities to maintain the overall security framework of the entire training and support mission, has led to such conditions that no other Allied country could remain in Afghanistan. As a result, we arrived at the extraordinary meeting of April 15th, at which - as I said - despite the diversity of the accents among the allies, we took this decision together, precisely in coherence with the founding value, indispensable and to preserve the cohesion of the Alliance. Mr President, senators and senators, the news of the last few days cannot and must not make us forget the national commitment of these twenty years in the greatest military operation since the end of the Second World War. Of course, we are well aware that the facts have made clear some significant critical points, on which I will return, but we cannot begin any reflection on what happened without remembering the reasons of the mission and also the results achieved. Following the tragic attack on the Twin Towers in 2001, following the invocation of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, we intervened with our allies to combat global terrorism, which had found a safe haven in Afghanistan. Having chosen to act, to make our concrete contribution in the fight against an imminent threat, directed to the whole West and its values, was a choice not only due but above all just. The presence of Al Qaeda in the country has been rendered ineffective; of this we must recognize the merit, without any doubt, of NATO, of our 50,000 soldiers who have moved on in these twenty years. First of all for them we must always remember the reasons for our participation, in particular for our 54 fallen and for the more than 700 wounded, to which our grateful and deferent thought goes. [[Applause.]] We will always remember - and with us all Italians - their tribute to the security of our communities and to the defence of the values that embody our Republic. If, however, we have ensured that for twenty years Afghanistan does not become a safe place for international terrorism, we cannot hide the failure to build solid institutions that are truly representative of Afghan society. On this point, that of institution building, we are called to reflect, that we will have to lead both in international and national contexts, with regard to our models of intervention and the need for a coherent, effective and shared multidimensional approach, of which the military dimension is only one component. The Afghan experience questions us, however, also on what consequences can arise from the current crisis and the impacts that this will have in an area already fragile and that plays a central role in the global geopolitical balances. In a more general perspective, we must prevent Afghanistan from becoming a safe place for world jihad and the recent attacks in Kabul, with its related propaganda significance, can be instrumentally presented as a victory and a renewed affirmation of the operational capabilities of the jihadist galaxy. There is therefore a risk that the deterioration of the security framework will extend to those regions of high national strategic interest in which we are engaged, such as the Sahel and Iraq. Clearly, the conditions of reference are very different: in Iraq - for example - the strength of the institutions is growing significantly and NATO has the opportunity to relaunch its capacity for institution building, immediately putting into place the criticalities that emerged in the Afghan scenario. It will be with this overall vision, in particular, that Italy, downstream of a thoughtful and in-depth evaluation of what happened today in Afghanistan, will assume in the next 2022 the command of the NATO mission in that country. In pointing out the areas of national interest that might be affected by the effects of the Afghan crisis, I mentioned the Sahel, a region that is increasingly central to European and Italian security interests and in which our commitment has increased significantly. Here too we will have to bring the lessons learned from the Afghan story in terms of the model of intervention and approach to 360 degrees regarding the problems of those countries. It is clear that our country, as well as the Atlantic Alliance, must draw many lessons from the Afghan experience, in order to better identify its strengths, but also its weaknesses, such as the difficulty to support a multinational process of nation building, such as the one that demanded the Afghan operating scenario. The Afghan epilogue re-launched the discussion on the role of NATO and the European Union in the global scenario. NATO has been and remains the reference organisation for our security, which guarantees protection and deterrent against the evolution of the global geostrategic framework and which, before being a military alliance, is first and foremost an alliance of values. Liberal democracies and their heritage of values and rights are a model to be defended, which, despite the indispensable process of reflection and analysis on the results of the Afghan experience, must continue to be the archetype of reference of our peculiar contribution to the scenario of cooperation and competition of the new global context. The ongoing NATO 2030 strategic review process will have to take full account of what has happened since 2001 in developing the new strategic concept of a balanced NATO, but above all the idea of an alliance of the future and its relations with the major international organisations, first and foremost the European Union. The Union is called even more to boldly define its strategic autonomy, in complementarity with NATO, but by making the most of its peculiarities and instruments, being the organisation that most of all has the ability to intervene effectively in the implementation of actions projected to the economic, cultural and social development of the countries in which we are called to operate. The theme of common defence, the subject of the recent and authoritative solicitation of the President of the Republic, has returned central in the European political debate, also thanks to the propulsive action of our country. Concrete initiatives have been launched to promote stronger integration in the sector, through capacity building, the development of a stronger industrial base and the adaptation of the EU's institutional architecture, but that is not enough: a qualitative leap is needed, first and foremost political. I believe it is now clear to everyone - the Afghan crisis demonstrates this to us plastically - that we are called to assume ever greater responsibilities, within the framework of what is already called, not by chance, a common security and defence policy and that, through the definition of the strategic compass, it will finally have to find its own direction, both concrete and courageous, for which European defence must therefore be seen not only as a response to an operational need, but rather as a fundamental component and necessary for the construction of a more fully political Europe, which is essential to be able to compete and act on the world stage. It is therefore a question of promoting greater responsibility on the part of the Union in the field of defence and security, not in contrast, but in full synergy with NATO. As I have said on several occasions, the strong promotion of the development and acquisition of European military capabilities must be fully understood as a natural and coherent action to strengthen the European pillar of the Atlantic Alliance, confirming the insolubility of the strong transatlantic relationship and with the aim of enabling Europe to make a substantial and effective contribution to global security and stability. This requires a political horizon and a common vision: threat analysis, a shared political agenda, building common military capabilities and, above all, a willingness to use them as a Union. At last week's EU ministerial meeting in Ljubljana, we addressed precisely the issue of the role that the Union wants to play in the global context, starting from the Afghan lesson, which must be a stimulus to strengthen its courage and level of ambition. It is clear that, for both organisations, one of the challenges will also be the decision-making processes. The new global competition certainly requires speed and efficiency: we must all be able to respond to this need by continuing to protect the principles and forms of liberal democracies. This is certainly a difficult challenge, but I believe it is inescapable, within the strategic review processes of the international reference organisations. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the work of our military, silent and tireless, deserves the praise and gratitude of the nation, for the commitment to the service of the values of freedom and democracy in different regions of the planet, acting with recognized professionalism and sacrifice. The evacuation just ended, the daily engagement at home and abroad, the support in the fight against the pandemic are wonderful examples of an extraordinary human heritage of skills and knowledge, supported by indispensable technological skills, which we must preserve and develop. The Afghan experience calls us to the responsibility of shaping a new defence and security architecture, focused on evolution and effective collaboration between a more modern NATO and a stronger European Union, which I consider, in all its scope, the emerging challenges and the role of global actors. Italy, also through a debate that is up to this challenge, must continue responsibly to do its part and will do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u10	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and of the Minister for Defence. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will take me much less than fifteen minutes because I believe that the thoughts of Mr Di Maio and Mr Guerini have the merit of paving the way between us today for serious, serene and sincere reflection. The more than 50 Italian soldiers who have fallen in Afghanistan deserve it so that their extreme sacrifice does not prove to be in vain. Italian diplomats, volunteers and the extraordinary network represented here in Parliament deserve it, which has given an extraordinary proof of self-denial and defence of the interests and values of our homeland. Colleagues, I said that serious reflection is necessary - let me say a word - and perhaps even unscrupulous. Diplomacy in this case is not enough, especially for us parliamentarians who do not have such duties, but we need to face the reality. I remember what happened in Iraq. President Bush decided the invasion of Iraq and at the fall of Saddam Hussein the Americans followed the political beheading - of course I am not talking about the physical one - of all the Sunni summits of Iraq. The result of the incident and this choice of the West was that fifteen years after the Islamic caliphate of ISIS, established between Iraq and Syria, he was largely the son not only of those out-of-date Al Qaeda and terrorists, but also of the Sunni summits that constituted in Iraq and Syria the political-institutional basis of the caliphate that would go to settle. A capital error of the West was the cause of one of the most dangerous facts for the West, namely the birth of the caliphate of ISIS. We have dramatically repeated the mistake in Afghanistan because, when Mr Guerrini rightly points out that the army, although well-equipped, did not fight and to a large extent found itself delivering weapons of the first and the next generation to the Taliban, this cannot be a coincidence. This is the consequence of corrupt rulers that the West has supported with full hands and that they were the first to escape without putting into effect any capacity for resistance. Colleagues, we knew those corrupt rulers because most of the time the reports of international agencies have shown us that the masters and warlords in Afghanistan over the years - for example - have not limited the cultivation of drugs, but have encouraged it. After the western occupation we allowed for the rulers of a drug-trafficking state and today we are surprised that they did not fight. These rulers were the first to escape and were the first to have benefited to a large extent from the aid that we have given them by establishing a state that we hoped could resist. Of course, when I say that, I am talking about the West and I am not referring to the Italian Government. We are a small part of this gear, but today we must reflect on the mistakes of the West. Colleagues, I wonder if the debate that has flourished this summer on the issue of the export of democracy makes sense in the face of such facts. Let us face ourselves: if by the export of democracy we mean the export of Western parliamentary models, in reality such as Afghanistan or even Libya, then it is clear that we cannot export democracy. If, on the other hand, by exporting democracy we mean - as I mean - a web of unavailable rights that human dignity affirms anywhere in the world (I think of the rights of children and women), then we must be proud to say that we claim this universality of rights, which is the daughter of our tradition and culture. But we cannot give up thinking that this is not a human aspiration that applies to Afghanistan as to any desolate and isolated area of the world. This is not about doing penance because we have tried to export democracy, because the part of Di Maio's and Guerini's relations that - in my opinion - is more convincing and motivates the sacrifice of our military - that is - is that we have finally managed to export rights that have allowed the Afghan people to vote, to respect the dignity of women, to see women in the positions of leadership of society, to see children go to school. Maio noted how the percentage of literacy in those children has grown. We have done things we must not be ashamed of, of which we must be proud. But today we must recognise that what happened in Afghanistan, Kabul, on those terrible days of August, is a watershed twenty years after 11 September. It is not something to which we must react with a kind of formalism of everyday life. Colleagues, does the West make sense? And again, what is the West? These are questions from which a Parliament such as this, a Parliament of a country like Italy, which in 1948 chose the West, proudly claiming friendship with the United States precisely because it feels part of this Western soul, must reflect on this. I believe at this point - and I come to the conclusion - that the real reflection to be made on the subject of the West is that, if we continue to feel Western, entrusting the United States of America with the possibility of being the dominus and also in some way the only true point of reference of this West, I fear that the answer we had in Kabul. I fear that this kind of West might no longer exist, because we cannot fail to see that American politics has profoundly changed. Has she changed with Trump? Someone was under the illusion that she had changed with Trump. No, she had changed with Obama: it was enough to look at the attitude of the Americans in the Mediterranean and Syria. Well, then it can't be a case anymore. It is true that the Doha agreements were signed by Trump, but it is equally true that the line of continuity starts from Obama, passes through Trump, arrives in Biden and, from the point of view of Western solidarity, there is a continuity that places us, Europeans and Italians, in front of our responsibilities. Do we believe the West has a function? If we believe this, let us no longer expect anything from the United States of America that we cannot do. It's not the time of the superpower delegation anymore, and do you know why? The superpower is no longer there, because today we have a series of actors who enter the scenario - for example after Afghanistan - that dramatically put each one before the responsibilities. We are opening our eyes today for the terrible images of the planes taking off and the people attached to their wheels. But we should have noticed before, ladies and gentlemen, because when the European actors went on in a scattered order, in much more difficult scenarios than Afghanistan - I think Libya - the result was what we see; the Libyan actors are Qatar, Turkey and Russia; Italy and France count little more than zero. Illustrate ourselves that it is not so, but between us then, in private, we know that it is so. And that's because they decided to play different games on different tables. The result is that both games are completely useless. Colleagues, I listened the other day to Mr Guerini's thoughts, which I think everyone in this House appreciates the seriousness with which he deals with these issues. He rightly raises the question of European defence - as, among other things, it is his job as Minister for Defence. Senator Pinotti and the other actors had done it before him, because it is a point on which we deeply believe. Colleagues, if we do not start with foreign policy, European defence is an escape from reality. [[Applause]] The 5,000, 10,000, 20,000 men we put together are useless if there is no single lung of foreign policy. What do you want 10,000 men put together in defence policy for? We must bring the following issue back to the centre of the village - as some would say -: if we want the West to exist, we must play our part and all the protagonists of European international policy must realize that the common foreign and defence policy is one and the same. Moreover, in the main issues we see the presence here of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Minister for Defence. I remember that when I joined Parliament, it wasn't like that. Perhaps Senator Bonino will remember that. I remember thirty years ago the Minister of Foreign Affairs came and not the Minister of Defence. Or the Minister of Defence came, but not the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because they were different plans. Today, however, they must come together because, if we are talking about Afghanistan, we know that defence policy is an instrument of a foreign policy choice and the two issues are interconnecting. Then, ladies and gentlemen, I shall end by saying that I am taking a lesson from the Afghan affair and from the last 20 years. Colleagues, we must also have the courage to go to our dear American friends and to tell them clearly that if we do common foreign and defence policy, we have priorities. Our priority is not Afghanistan, nor Iraq. Our priorities are the Sahel, the Mediterranean and Libya. I believe that we must make a priority assessment of our national priorities and have the courage to say that we concentrate our efforts in areas where there is geopolitically more interest in Europe and our country. I think that, having said that, it should be noted that we have certainly suffered from this incident, but we hope that today we will succeed in achieving the five objectives that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has enucleated. It is obvious - and I add nothing else - that we cannot talk about the recognition of the Taliban without the certainty that these five points will be respected. I am glad that no one has proposed this here. Someone sometimes throws his heart beyond the obstacle, but I think it would really be a betrayal of those concepts of seriousness that we are committed to assert. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u12	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u13	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, President Biden said that we are facing the end of a long war, but I think that is only partly true: we are at the end of a season, at the end of what many people have called the American century. Who, like me, is firmly pro-Atlantic, a great supporter of friendship with the United States and a convinced defender of the values that our Alliance has always carried forward, suffers for this judgment. And in saying that, unfortunately, it is time to say clearly to some anti-Americans the next day, who took advantage of some analyses in my opinion that are profoundly superficial, that it is not true that the United States of America lost this war, but won it. The United States of America lost with us after the war, but in the military targets of destruction of the bombers and terrorist organization the United States achieved a result. To those who say that after 11 September we should not intervene militarily I would like to remind you where we were, on 11 September. Did you think it was possible to intervene with an exchange of diplomatic notes, after they had knocked down the twin towers, hit the Pentagon and tried to hit the White House? It is clear that the military reaction should be the reaction. The Americans won the war and to whom still today in the Italian newspapers a few hours ago wrote that Osama Bin Laden is the true winner of this war of the twenties, we want to reiterate, with much humility, from where celebrates Osama Bin Laden his supposed victory? From the bottom of the sea where he is buried, after American soldiers ten years ago executed him as he had to do. To those who still today - Mr Guerini has said it perfectly, which I thank - says that the war and the post-war period have been lost because ours were badly organized, it must be said that it was not a problem of bad formation. Honor to the women and men of the alliance, honor to the Italian women and men and not only to the Italians who formed the Afghans. We all stayed at Herat with them and saw their professionalism. The post-war period was lost due to the corruption of the Afghan warlords who ran away with 169 million dollars from a helicopter leaving cash on the track; it was lost because it was not wanted and you were not able to build a state entity - because it was not easy - and because you did not have the strength and courage to imagine a great challenge of a winning cultural and educational nature. It happened - I see Senator Pinotti, who then played the role of Minister Guerini today - the same thing, even in profoundly different circumstances, when the well-trained and well-equipped Iraqi army chose not to fight on 10 June 2014 in Mosul. Remember that story: then the Iraqi army escaped before what was being formed as an Islamic State, Daesh, and in that shameful escape was born a criminal and terrorist organization that struck not only in that territory, but that for an emulation effect on which I will try to return then struck Europe. In that affair, however, be careful, the Western forces, the forces of the Alliance managed to win over not only because there was then an intervention. In 2014, as the European Union - in the Italian Presidency - we went to Erbil to say thanks to those who were fighting on the ground against Islamic extremists. The role of Kurdish women in this affair was decisive, who fought in the front line for the freedom not only of their territory, then abandoned again by the alliance, but also of all of us. [[Applause]] Afghanistan has unfortunately been a cemetery of many ideologies and also of a great hope, the hope of our generation. With the events of today and of the last weeks and months, unfortunately, a season is closed that is that of the American century. "America first" was Trump's message and I regret to say that it was also received by the current U.S. administration. I say this with death in my heart and with esteem and friendship towards American leaders. I say that remembering Joe Biden's words a few weeks ago. At the end of the battle on vaccines, stressing the success of the Americans and the American organization on vaccination, he said: above all this is proof that democracy works, that democracies work and that, once again, America returns to lead the world not by the example of our power, but by the power of our example. We are the United States of America; we are ready as never before. We have the tools and resources to save lives at home and in the rest of the world. This is us and this is what we do because there is no nation like us on earth. These are Joe Biden's words when he explains the success of the vaccination campaign. I would have liked to have heard them, but that was not the case, even on the Afghan affair. That is a fact: it will change a lot in American politics and we will have a chance to talk about it again. This is the discussion to be made of foreign policy, with China today being the main subject of the area and preparing to lead the Asian century, but it is also the first interested in preventing Afghanistan from becoming a place of terror. China is now in the short term the winner, but in the medium term it will have to deal with a number of different concerns. In this regard, the relationship between China and Russia, which has been growing since the Foreign Ministers' meetings last March in 2021, should not be underestimated. We must not underestimate what can happen in the Arab world. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for Defence, I believe that in the coming weeks we will see changes in the Sunni world, as they could come back to dialogue with the Sunni worlds that were not spoken and this could provoke a different reaction from the Indians too. In fact, let us not forget that Pakistan and India have had many elements of tension at this time. As far as we're concerned, Madam President, there's a victim on the ground. The first victims, of course, are the people who have lost their lives, starting with those at the airport; they are for me the American soldiers and soldiers to whom our great homage goes. [[Applause]] Nicole Gee was twenty-three years old and died the day after she lulled an Afghan child, saying she loved her work. You're like those American boys who are unfortunately dead and we all visit in American war cemeteries. They too, as well as our partisans, owe our freedom. Without them we would be the third generation of the Third Reich, let's never forget that. There is, however, a fact. Minister of Defence, you know that there is a great relationship between me and you of friendship and affection, in my case also of esteem, but also of diversity of diplomatic tones. There is the problem of NATO, which is as big as a house. NATO is a collateral victim of this. When Emmanuel Macron talked about NATO's brain death, everyone said it wasn't cerebral. He's dead. Either NATO changes, or there's none for anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we can pretend everything, but the problem with NATO is that in 2016 it celebrated the fact that it organized a meeting in the city where the Warsaw Pact was signed, demonstrating that it won the historic battle against communism. But that's where you see the lack of a strategic choice for the future. NATO must think of itself for cyber security and new bets that it is not handling. It is clear that, at that point, if there is no NATO, there must be, at least, the European army. Of the two: either NATO is working, or we need a European reaction. Also because nothing more than disintensive Taliban behavior! The Taliban killed a Pulitzer award in July and killed comedians, musicians and women. But what unbearable behavior? Minister Di Maio is right to say that he judges them on the facts, but the facts have already spoken. We need a double reaction, not so much on immigration, friends of the League - there is much more to fear for climate phenomena and environmental sustainability than from immigration from Afghanistan - but on terrorism, which is the real tragedy. We believe that the issue of terrorism concerns the emulation of phenomena such as those that occurred in 2014-2015 when, after what happened in Syria, lone wolves and people in banlieu began to explode in Europe. This is the drama and on this good the Government has done to convene the G20 and well they have done the Ministers to work in this direction; let me say, however, that there is a great and gigantic educational and cultural battle that we all have to win and that it is not easy to play in the coming years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u14	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u15	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for coming here this morning to the Senate, although I would have liked the parliamentary debate when it was decided to withdraw from Afghanistan and not to withdraw from Afghanistan. I find it difficult in ten minutes - he will speak after me, fortunately, Senator Rauti to complete the speech - to try to comment on the speeches of two Ministers who have presented us with a line that, for goodness' sake, is certainly common in the Government, although from two completely different facets: one, the one I have most shared, concerning the military aspect, about which the Minister of Defence spoke and the other concerning the more political aspect, on which the Minister of Foreign Affairs reported. I start from the intervention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who correctly said that we will judge not by words, but by actions the Taliban and what the Government of Afghanistan will be. Minister - this also applies to us, it is always true and should apply to everyone, even to the Italian Government - and I believe that we are in a very bad situation. In fact, I regret to announce that five minutes ago, as my colleague Mr Casini spoke, the journalist Micalessin called me from Kabul, who, like Biloslavo, is a brave war journalist, who is not in hotels, but goes to the front line to document. Micalessin invited me to watch his tweet this morning, which you can all watch. There was a demonstration of very brave women in Kabul, because it is not true that the Afghans are cowards; the cowards are rather those who abandoned them alone. [[Applause.]] As is testified by the tweet that, as I repeat, you can all see, against these brave women there were gunshots that created panic. These are the actions, you don't have to be there. So, Minister for Foreign Affairs, let me be clear: I have listened very carefully to the long sequence of figures, of euros that will be given for morally necessary reconstruction and humanitarian aid, but woe if these resources were to arrive through the Afghan Government, through the Taliban, because we want to know up to the last cent to whom they will go and through whom. Let's be clear. Let us not get caught up in the usual humanitarian faceliness, which must instead be real and shared, and let us be careful not to end up, through those aids, accomplices of the Taliban executioners who, at the origin of the story, were the ones who determined the intervention. In fact, if the Afghan Government had responded to the western ultimatum of the United States in particular, which asked to hand over the authors and the head of the perpetrators of the September 11 attacks, there would have been no intervention in Afghanistan that, it is clear, was necessary and today I claim it, even if I was not in the majority. This was well claimed by the Minister of Defense, so it is a sign of that patriotic opposition that is typical of Brothers of Italy (giving Caesar what is Caesar's). That intervention was motivated by the need to prevent terrorism from being close to our home; our military for twenty years have done a heroic work to keep terrorism as far away from our cities as possible, which had manifested itself not only with the attack on the Twin Towers, but with the assaults on the embassies, with bombings and with bombs in the middle of the world. This must be borne in mind by those who say that this mission was just a failure. It was a political failure, but not a military failure. It was a political failure first because there were those who went there to fight the Taliban and there were those who went there just to rebuild. For years even Italy, not after a certain date, believed that our soldiers were there to distribute mineral water. This was not the case: we were there to counter the Taliban's ferocity and it was done with a serious human sacrifice. It was my turn, as Senator Pinotti knows, the hardest period, when on my shoulders I brought the coffins of so many, too many, young people who today must be remembered not only with words, but with the testimony of the attention that - I say it underneath - this Government missed at the time of return, because no one went to welcome the Folgore who returned from Kabul, not even a rag of Undersecretary [[Applause]] I repeat, not even a rag of Undersecretary. Words are not enough, sometimes gestures are worth much more than words. Coming to the other aspect, we imagine that this phase, as Senator Casini correctly said, is completely new; a phase in which Europe will have to have a different weight, because different is the role of NATO, which has already changed after 2011: there has no longer been a single international mission, after that in Libya in 2011. It is a Europe equipped. It is not this Europe, for this reason we are talking about the European confederation, to which are reserved the real tasks of defence, foreign policy, of course the management of tax and currency, of course the great issues of immigration, but that the rest is respectful of the peculiarities of each nation. Today, a European confederation, as General Graziano (now President of the Military Committee of the European Union) says in a recent interview, cannot fail to be a priority on the European political agenda. We expect a common defence policy at the same time to walk together with a necessary common foreign policy, because one without the other is of no use at all. This is the ambition of a serious Europe, of a Europe that we would like to see, which does the important things instead of just sticking to the decisions of the Americans, who have wrong not only the management of the withdrawal. In fact, withdrawal could not and should not be done according to the times. You can't tell the Taliban we're leaving, time 14 months, they're there and as soon as they get there, because they're organized. The withdrawal had to be commensurate with the conditions, not the times. We gave a huge gift to the Taliban. Time is running out, and then let me devote the last seconds to my personal experience. I have been to Bala Murghab, I have been to Farah, certainly to Herat and Kabul, but in those outposts I have seen the value of our military. A large outpost like this room, bombarded every day by mortars. Were they there because? I also ask myself this today, and I have given myself a reason: they were there to fight terrorism, even before they brought or introduced forms of democracy that the people did not want. They were there to testify to the will of the Italian people to be involved and protagonist of a peace action that cannot take place without adequate armed forces and supported, even economically, by governments that too often make ears as merchants. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u16	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Di Maio and Mr Guerini, who are holding this constant dialogue with Parliament, and I also thank all the Members who have spoken. I believe that what we are doing is a very important debate. I agree with what the Minister said to us today and he also told us in the hearings, in response to the question whether we could not remain without the Americans. No, such a complex mission, with that kind of organization, could not foresee distinctions at that time. The theme is not whether it was right or not to withdraw, because a mission must have a conclusion. It is correct that there is an end mission, the problem was the how and also the timing. I allow myself here to express my disagreement with the Doha Agreement; Mr Guerini has done so with great diplomacy, but I, as a Member of Parliament, can also be a little more direct. Do you really have to wonder why you are talking to the Taliban at that moment and not before, for example, when we had a very different position of strength, realizing that there was still a present force and it could be opened, for example after the killing of Osama Bin Laden? It is decided to do so at that time, when it is already said that we would withdraw, thus putting ourselves in a position of great weakness. Moreover, it is decided to dialogue with the Taliban, not inviting from the beginning the Afghan Government; I agree with all the negative judgments I have heard this morning and in the relations of the Ministers, some more delicate, others more direct, but until then it was the legitimate Government, even with all the weaknesses of the case. You couldn't sit at that table without that government, because that immediately legitimized the Taliban and delegitized that government, even if it was weak and corrupt and with everything you have already said. Returning to what happened, the Afghan army was also mentioned. It is true that he has not fought, certainly also because the government has not been able to create that cohesion and that motivation that must be there to fight. I remember the Kurdish peshmerga, trained by our forces, as they fought against ISIS. The Afghan people - Mr La Russa is right - are not made of cowards who run away: some say 66,000 have died, some even 80,000 in contrast to the Taliban. Evidently they were discovered and I believe that the open negotiation with the Taliban without the legitimate government was also an element that made them feel discovered. I join in thanking the diplomatic corps, our extraordinary armed forces and intelligence for what we have done for evacuation, not only for the numbers you have given today, but also for the modalities. I have heard of the testimonies of Italian journalists, who were impressed by how our military not only made people get on the planes, but how they made them sit in their seats, as they each gave their own lunch, that is, with attention and kindness that really struck the journalists who knew less the work of our Armed Forces. Now what to do? I agree with the agenda that Mr Di Maio has listed for us; it seems to me to be a good plan, both for the debate that has been held in Europe and for the national plan. The conditions laid down in Europe are positive, so let us distinguish: if we need to talk to the Taliban about humanitarian corridors, we must do so. But an account is a negotiation and a negotiation, and another account is a legitimization, which can only take place on the basis of the conditions that have been set out here. The G20 is also positive, because it is a forum that we are chairing and that can become an important occasion. I believe that, of all that we have said, Senator Casini has also touched on the central point: the issue of rights. I think it is pointless now to open the debate on how to build a democracy. There is no doubt that the efforts of our military and our fallen have also been made to reach that data which you, Minister Di Maio, have read. If in twenty years the girls have gone to school - in Herat, for example, until university - from scratch to, in some places, representing 40% and more, it means that something has been done and we cannot fail to recognize it. I agree that defeat was more political than military. There is bitterness for how it ended and I have also felt a lot of bitterness in the words of my fellow Members, but there is no doubt that we must give rise to a proposal from this bitterness. It has been said that it was the Americans who went with 5,000 soldiers to protect Kabul airport; as has also been mentioned in this House, we remember that young American soldiers died in the attack of ISIS. So let's not forget we're on the same side. There is no doubt that it is not now that the United States has said: on your quadrant, the Mediterranean and the Middle East, what do you think should be done? You do and we help you anyway. The investment in the fact that we must assume our responsibilities is not from now on, but after an event like this in Afghanistan we can no longer make "steps" we really have to make a breakthrough on the issue of European defence, which is not at odds with NATO. Then we will discuss whether NATO really is dead or not and what the strategic concept must be. But until now it represents a strategic alliance made up of values, so I would be careful to throw everything away. I think that NATO becomes stronger, more authoritative, more competent and more capable of intervening in the world if, in addition to the point of view of the United States (which is very strong), there is also a perspective that becomes strong if it is a European point of view and not just of the individual nations. [[Applause]] The construction of a European defence, as you said, is not a technical matter: technically it takes very little time to do it, that is not the problem; the problem is political and to choose Europe to move around the world with its own direction and foreign policy choices that make it clear what Europe wants to be in the world. I repeat, technically it is not difficult and it can be done. And I wonder, if not now, when? Now is the time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u18	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, knowing me, you know very well that I do not like to make politics with the rear viewer, looking back; I normally try to do it by looking ahead. On this occasion, however, there are two or three fundamental points that escape me and on which I would ask for clearer answers. I have read, reread and I know almost by heart the slim text of the so-called Doha agreement: four pages. I read it and reread it. I read that, on the one hand, there were the United States and its allies, generically speaking. I don't know who they're referring to, if NATO is us. However, on the one hand, there were Khalilzad and Pompey and, on the other, the Taliban. Is it a state secret to know who was there for the Taliban? Apart from Mr Baradar, who is recognizable, who represented Mr Baradar? The structure of Afghanistan, in fact, looks much like that of Libya, where, instead of calling them militias, we call them clans: all, however, deeply armed. I'm talking about Haqqani, I'm talking about Dostum, I'm talking about Hekmatyar, and I'm talking about the possibility that these gentlemen don't recognize each other in Baradar. In February 2020, returning to the United States and its allies, were you, Ministers who were in office even then, informed? I do not say consulted, because in the United States it no longer uses, but were you at least informed? NATO is not even mentioned in this text. However, we are well aware that we were in Afghanistan with a NATO mission called ISAF at the time, in which we participated, but with a green light from the Security Council. If I understand correctly, I understand that very well, NATO is not even mentioned. The Americans are quoted as "and its allies": I would like to know who they are referring to. The Taliban are mentioned, where the United States continues to say that it is not a government that they recognize. And thank goodness! If they recognized them, maybe they made an altar! Why is it important to know who was there and who represented who at this table? To find out if, in fact, the hypothesis of a civil war is excluded or not. The militias, like the clans, have rather fluctuating alliances. That was the first question. The second is the following. Always reading and rereading this agreement, the human rights of women or children are not even mentioned, not even evoked, not even out of hypocrisy. I'm not here. The only thing Pompey and Khalilzad ask the Taliban, generically speaking, is to break relations with the jihadist party. Excuse me, but a little bitter smile comes along. The jihadist part, in fact, they have it in the house. I must say that the failure of intelligence (NATO or USA, as you prefer) is amazing. Is it possible that, in a territory controlled by Western troops, we do not realize that this ISIS Khorasan was born, so aggressive and so structured that it is able, a few hours after the taking of Kabul airport, to carry out two attacks? I mean, maybe something's wrong with the failure of intelligence. I can't think of a lack. By the way, knowing Afghanistan a little bit, what the clans are, I know it by heart. I am glad that Europe has also put the stakes on human rights, but be careful because in the agreement we would like to monitor they are not mentioned even remotely. Finally, I guess now the question is: what to do? That is why there is a very important diplomatic frenzy: the Ministers for Defence, Foreign Affairs and so on are meeting and it is always better to talk than to shoot, I agree with that, but nothing is coming out. I hope that the extraordinary G20 on Afghanistan (and see how the call between Draghi and Xi Jinping will go today) will take place, because this is the only way to figure out if at least some tune to avoid civil war is still possible. Finally, I must say that I share, Minister Guerini and Minister Di Maio, what you have said about defence. If there is no foreign policy, we will do nothing about defence policy, except for the environmental emergency: if there is a flood, we will call our 5,000 military. But for all the other cases that have implications, without foreign policy we do not know what to do with defence. I think, however, that we must proceed very slowly with the recognition of the Taliban, who have already been successful, because they have gone from being entrepreneurial tagliagoles to being people with whom we should talk; and that's fine, but legitimizing is something else. I fear that it will be difficult to maintain this position, because it is clear that Russia, China, certainly Turkey and other Arab countries will recognise them. So this is not 1998. However, I would ask you to hold this position and to support in Geneva the establishment of an independent monitoring committee, so that this exit does not just mean disengagement. Leave a few eyes... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u21	Mr President, Ministers, fellow senators, let us immediately clarify one concept: the emergency is humanitarian, but the crisis is political. Reduce a gigantic, colossal political crisis to the humanitarian emergency, which also follows, is a sign of ignorance and is perhaps the most evident sign of the sunset of the West. We have come to this point not because of wrong policies, but because of a dramatic lack of politics, political sense. The countries of NATO, in general, and the United States in particular, lacked the political sense when they thought of organizing a change of regime not from below, not involving the different clans, the different ethnicities, the different tribes, not involving the countries of the area, but - as it had been done, wrong, in Iran before the revolution of Khomeini, in Iraq after the fall of Saddam, in Somalia at the end of the operation Restore hope - lowering power on a series of local lackeys that naturally, at the first difficulty, dissolved like snow in the sun. The problem has ancient roots in my opinion. After the massacre of World War I, on the basis of the idealism of the American presidency of Woodrow Wilson, with the Briand-Kellogg pact, the international community set itself an ambitious goal: to ban war. Since then a cultural process has begun that has crossed all Western societies and has led to the replacement, in fact, of political logic with humanitarian logic. The problem is that humanitarian logic does not justify the dead in battle. We are therefore witnessing a paradox, whereby the global power par excellence, the United States, no longer has the moral strength to regard death as a natural event on the horizon of those who freely choose the profession of weapons. [[Applause]] All the rest follows: we can also rename war, hypocritically, as we are used to doing, we can also contract war to private individuals, so as not to have the accounts of the dead, we can also - as we Italians do in the parade of June 2 - hide our armed forces, behind functions and figures more and more eminently civilized, but this does not enable us to face problems, when they fatally manifest themselves. Even having reduced the meaning of the war in Afghanistan to the question of human rights and democracy, just in the abstract, was an element of weakness. I consider democracy exportable, but not in the times that the international community had given itself. So we faced an announced failure and it was a shame, because it is true that Afghan society has not democratized in these twenty years, but it is equally true that it has evolved enormously, GDP has tripled, infant mortality has halved, literacy has increased by more than 50%. They are successes, considered as defeats, because we had given ourselves a wrong goal. Even reducing everything now to the humanitarian issue is dangerous and slippery: even if we succeed - and we will not succeed - in expatriating all the Afghans who want to leave their country, thereby demonstrating that there has been progress, we would not solve the problem of a totalitarian, fundamentalist and terrorist regime: that is the problem! [[Applause]] In order to tackle this problem we must free ourselves, alas - I say this game force - of humanitarian logic and adhere to a political logic. We must be political, with that political logic that the United States is demonstrating that it can no longer support and that we Italians and we Europeans have never had. Colleagues, let us be honest: we have never had a foreign policy and I say this with respect for Mr Di Maio and the many who preceded him, because it is not possible to have a foreign policy without a security policy. We have delegated our security policy to the United States and now that the United States - with Biden, but in line with Trump - withdraw from the world, we are alone, defenceless and incapable of politics. The problem is solved by a strong injection of realism and politics. The question of common European defence is the objective: we must start again from 1954, or from the infamous date, when the French Parliament rejected that project and re-implement it, but in order to do so we must get out of humanitarian logic and make political sense. Colleagues, it is not a possibility, but it is a necessity imposed by the American disarmament and the lack of great powers, such as Xi Jinping's China and, alas, Erdogan's Turkey. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u22	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u23	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, in the face of such a delicate, complex and important geopolitical crisis, which also affects our country, we expected this information to be of absolute priority in this House. Too bad for this inexplicable length of time and for this delay! One could say: better late than never, but I do not intend to argue, because I am not passionate and anyway it is not the time, nor the place. Excellent work, however, on the five proposals. We can only start from a fundamental point: the degeneration of the situation in Afghanistan shows that democracy is not exportable, where it is not supported by proper assumptions and where there are no other predominant interests. Thinking about changing or imposing the culture of others is unacceptable, especially when the objectives of such a policy are not clear, since every people has its own historical and cultural process. We must not be tempted by the desire to export democracy, but it would be better to focus on the protection of human rights at global level, which have no national borders. This must be done only through targeted action and diplomacy, together with a decisive fight against international terrorism. [[Applause]] This is the ideal time to prove it. Foreign policy is not based solely on the political ideology of the individual parties, but on multilateral diplomacy or on the interests of each individual action alone, since politics itself is not based on feelings or first impressions, but on realism and, that is, the ability to read and interpret the real situations by how they present themselves in order to arrive at a quality solution. It is this capacity for organizational cohesion that the European Union lacks today in a world that already shows the effects of globalisation even from a geopolitical point of view. We cannot risk Europe remaining on the margins of foreign policy or, worse still, being subject to the decisions of other world powers. We are now facing the consequences of the crisis. We will have to protect the real refugees, as also covered by the guidelines of our immigration policy, through a joint effort and shared by all the countries of the European Union, without forgetting that we must find a Community identity and vision in foreign policy and not only to combat terrorism and guarantee freedom and rights won. It is clear that Italy alone cannot accommodate hundreds of thousands of refugees either because of structural limitations or because of the necessary caution to avoid the imminent risks of terrorist infiltration. At the same time, Ministers, it is essential to implement action to counter the barbarism of human trafficking. [[Applause]] This is the time to act and no more useless words. The rapid disengagement of the West in Afghanistan and the simultaneous rise of the Taliban cannot blind us and indifferent to the scenes we have witnessed. In fact, it is intolerable to confine ourselves to witnessing manifest violations of human rights and the rule of law, together with tragic scenes of an imminent humanitarian crisis. All this can only be a source of unpredictable global risks linked to a situation of absolute instability and uncertainty, in addition to the Libyan, Syrian and Lebanese ones. Parliament must be the place for dialogue and debate as the home of democracy. This must take place both in the strategic and protection choices of true refugees and in the protection of the right of the Italian people to live safely from the risk of uncontrolled immigration and, above all, of potential terrorists. Never before do we need a clear vision of the actual evolution of the humanitarian and geopolitical crisis in order to achieve a sharing of responsibility between all the countries involved, covering two specific guidelines: the protection of human rights and the protection of international security. Finally, I would like to express my sincere thanks to our women and to our men who have been engaged in Afghanistan. I am thinking of soldiers, policemen and civilians who have done immense work in what has proved to be an extremely complicated scenario in the global chessboard. A moving thought goes to those who fell to serve our country [[Applause]] joined by a heartfelt hug to family members. Another important thanks goes also to the thousands of Afghans who worked side by side with the Italian contingent: it was comforting, in the image of the tragedy, to see the extraordinary work of our diplomatic network in evacuating those people. Knowing that our country can give a second life to those who have been next to us during these twenty years is a source of pride for all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u25	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before even as parliamentarians or members of the government, what is happening in Afghanistan calls us into question as women and men. The heartbreaking images of the refugees cannot leave us indifferent: these are his words, Minister Di Maio, and they are also mine. Minister Di Maio, this is exactly the first of my thoughts and our thoughts. In Kabul and Afghanistan there are still many of our collaborators and their families: women, men, children - many children - who are hiding or trying to escape through Pakistan. After the attacks at Kabul airport and the closure, they were left alone. There are reports of house-to-house rakings and surely they live in constant terror and for them every second scanned by the clock weighs like a boulder. We need to get them to safety. Similarly, journalists and activists are being arrested just as we are discussing. In these terrible days I have had the opportunity to speak with some of them, with Afghan personalities, intellectuals, citizens and activists sheltered abroad, but who have their families in Afghanistan, and have recognized to you, Minister, and to our country a force and a determination in evacuation operations that other countries have not demonstrated. [[Applause]] I can confirm this because I too have been in those tragic hours in very close contact with the Farnesina. Double is therefore the value of our country: the first is humanitarian, the second is to have acquired, during the recent Governments - thanks to the work of Prime Minister Conte, first, of Draghi who has collected the results and of his work, Minister Di Maio - a credibility in Europe and in international relations that is now evident to all. The testimony is his mission to Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Qatar and Pakistan; it is the relationship above all with his counterparts in France and Germany. First of all, we need the European Union to move together: an account is to assess and possibly act against diplomacy with the Taliban, as well as possible choices, in my opinion necessary, logistical and operational assistance, especially at Afghan airports, as a country of Italy; another account is to do so as a European Union. We would really be a power. This is possible today precisely because Europe, in its recent history, in this Afghan drama has awakened an individual and collective consciousness never before had. It's a historic moment when we really can work together. Secondly, with international dialogue within the G20, the European Union should also speak, or at least a very representative part of it. It is clear to everyone, even the most critical and the most reckless, that dialogue with China, Russia and Turkey is inevitable. They are the ones who can make a difference in crisis management. I am not talking about the United States, of course, including the United States, but which at the moment does not seem to have clear positions on this matter. Ministers, colleagues, President, this is a very great historic opportunity to show ourselves and the peoples of Europe that, in this international context, together we can be a strong and heavy subject on geopolitical balances. This is an opportunity for nemesis and catharsis throughout Europe. This is an opportunity to demonstrate and realize before the world that our country is diplomatically and strategically inescapable in international crises, especially towards China, Turkey and Russia. I quote President Mattarella, who has been clear on this issue, saying that what happened in the war in Syria has made clear the European Union's lack of ability to act unitedly, it is essential to ensure the real, effective and concrete instruments of common foreign and defence policy. These instruments exist and can be used by Europe in an international context. I am referring to the directive on temporary protection No 55 of 2001 of the European Community on group protection status, which could be applied precisely for the case of Afghanistan, creating visas for all and humanitarian corridors. It is an option to be taken internationally by the strength of Europe. It is an opportunity to save, gentlemen, hundreds or thousands of Afghans who have helped us, who have been our collaborators, translators, employees and who are persecuted and refugees because of us and NATO and we cannot fail. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u26	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for Information, who added a great deal to what they held in the Chamber and Senate Joint Commissions on 24 August. I have to say very clearly that as far as we are concerned, our first major concern at the moment is the dramatic situation that the civilian population is living in Afghanistan. I would like to mention, among other things, that already in the first six months of 2021, according to data from United Nations assistance mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), we had already had 1,600 civilians killed and 3,500 wounded. We know perfectly well that the situation can continue to be very dramatic. We are therefore extremely concerned about what Mr Di Maio rightly described as a humanitarian tragedy which is emerging for a set of causes, for what has happened and for the economic and food crisis. This puts a large part of the civilian population at risk. I would like to take up Mr Bonino's call here and express our concern about the human rights situation, particularly for women. That's our big concern. The Ministers have already raised a number of issues that we fully share. We are also asking the question of how to deal with the many refugees. This is not because we must fear who knows what escape, but we know perfectly well that we will have to be able to deal seriously with the issue of refugees and here I come to the point. How will the European Union move? My colleague, Mr Airola, has quite rightly called for, and I strongly support, the idea of the implementation of European Directive No 55 of 2001. We have the problem here. Italy is moving well, but there is the issue of really moving in a shared way as the European Union and I must say that the first meetings of the Ministers of the Interior of the European Union did not go in the right direction. That is the problem and we must know it because, in the aftermath of the tragedy, everyone talking about refugees, then things, in the debate at European level too, are different. These are the issues that we have before us and that are at our heart as a country. When Mr Casini said that we must understand the export of democracy - a concept on which I shall then dwell - as the fact that we are there to defend rights, we must always remember that. I agree, and this is something that we will also have to put firmly at the Conference on the future of Europe, on the construction of a true European foreign policy. This does, however, mean not only the question of the economic interests of the European Union or of the various countries, but also really begin to be guarantors of the defence of rights. We cannot continue to close our eyes, for example, in some countries, because that is what we do about Turkey, about what happens in Egypt. All the more so, I believe that today's issue is to put in place a very strong monitoring structure in Afghanistan, to understand what's going on. Unfortunately, the signs are all negative, they are not positive as regards respect for human rights, the protection and defence of women's rights, which are courageously opposing. Let us remember what is happening: so many women are coming to the streets, challenging the Taliban with their bodies and we cannot do as we did with the Kurdish women, who fought with us against the terrorists and then were left alone during the siege. That's the problem. All the more so today we must not only activate the independent monitoring committee, but also put in place all the tools to really get out of the mere words and make sure that the defence of women's rights and human rights in that country is a real fact. However, we can only do this if we strengthen a genuine capacity for sharing within the European Union, so that the European Union can move in an absolutely unified way. History will then tell what has happened in these twenty years and the things that have been done, but it is certain that we cannot think of ignoring the chain of errors, committed one after the other. Everyone then, twenty years ago, had some positions, I had some, others had others. Of course, we must say that a number of choices have led to this. I do not repeat here what was done with the Doha agreements, but even after the assassination of Bin Laden ten years ago it was perhaps possible to put in place serious initiatives for real consolidation of Afghan institutions, not putting puppets, as happened also in other countries, but building a real civil society. These are some of the issues on which perhaps we should be able not only to reflect, but to learn a lesson to the full. In this debate, it has become clear, beyond what will happen with regard to NATO, that there is absolutely no longer a real capacity to stand in the European Union's field, and not only in terms of defence, I would like to emphasise this forcefully. First of all, we need a European Union foreign policy, and then we need defence. Without the common foreign policy, this can never be achieved. In conclusion, I believe that the Government has done well to ask for the activation of the G20, because I believe that we can have with the other protagonists of that area the opportunity to act and to have a real role. I also call for all our consular structures to be activated, as far as refugee reception and asylum policies are concerned, because we can play an essential role already on the ground and in neighbouring countries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u28	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to make three basic points. The first is that the entire Assembly should have to President Draghi and the two Ministers representing the Government here, Di Maio and Guerini, an appreciation for how Italy behaved, for how the Italian Government behaved, both for having diligently and consistently governed repatriation, and for having offered willingness to welcome, and finally I would like to add, also for the pressing attempt to organize an extraordinary G20 quickly on the subject also subject of our considerations. My appreciation, Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, ends here. If we come to the issue of Europe, I make my own the considerations made, in a decidedly and naturally much more swamped way, by the Head of Government and the Head of State, but which today I have heard echoing also with interesting proposals from the Minister of Defence. I make them my own together with the Foreign Minister's remarks. We cannot be content with what we have seen. It takes a lot more than that. A Europe that is not a geopolitical subject in front of the hairpins of history when history is screwed is no longer absolutely tolerable. It is no longer tolerable because the consideration that lies ahead of this assessment is linked to the fact that the America gendarme of the world no longer exists. And it is a mistake to consider "the no longer exists" started only with President Trump, because already with the previous Presidency that line had been marked and strengthened by the President who preceded Biden and has been confirmed to date. We would make a mistake if we did not consider that we were in the middle of a nascent second cold war, where the challenge between the United States and China combined ambitions of regional powers that risk bringing multilateralism to a condition in which Europe risks being perfectly marginalized. It has already been said and I stress this: every defence policy at all times has always been the daughter of a foreign policy; it is foreign policy the mother, from which follows a defence policy. When the number one of European foreign policy, a dear friend, Josep Borrell, says that an emergency force must be formed quickly, he is right. However, if we do not advance the emergence of that force from a common foreign policy and from a direction that leads to a sort of United States of Europe, with a single fiscal policy and a single foreign policy, I fear that the forces of emergency intervention will not have the efficiency and effectiveness that each of us wants. Minister Di Maio, Minister Guerini, we must therefore ask ourselves a second preventive question, namely whether the European Union, not as we know it today, but in the dimensions we know today, can be considered the most effective answer, that is, whether the European Union of 27 has the characteristics to play a challenge that is different from that played in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. The third question, touched on in some speeches, but only in passing, concerns a historical question, i.e. whether democracy is exportable or not. I have read some answers that are neither in heaven nor on earth. Democracy has always been exportable, but not everywhere and not even at the same speed. We Italians know something about the exportability of democracy, as well as Indians, Japanese and South Koreans. And we're definitely not starting from scratch. We too often forget that the vast majority of the countries of the world signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. We forget that in September 2000 the United Nations signed almost unanimously a note saying, in fact, that democracy is a universal value, but there is no single model of democracy, as is evident. However, there is one point on which we all agree: the universality of fundamental rights is not a myth, it is a right of peoples. If 150 million girls are infiltrated or homosexuals hang themselves, the issue also concerns us and the exportability of democracy with economic aid and even with arms. Wars have also brought democracy and, for our history and culture, we cannot turn our heads elsewhere. If there is a role that Italy, with this Government, and Europe can play, I hope this can be too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group once again expresses its gratitude to our armed forces, diplomats and all those who, in various ways, have worked for the success of Operation Aquila Omnia. However, Brothers of Italy cannot fail to repeat and not stigmatize the delay recorded by the Government, already before the crisis, in organizing the evacuation of our interpreters and collaborators - we spoke about it in the Chamber just before the summer break and before everything went down - and, unfortunately, the delay in the hearings before the committees of competence, which could take place before 24 August, as well as the delay in today's same information, which could already be on 24 August. A further lack that Brothers of Italy intends to underline is also about the request, which we have made several times for President Draghi to come to the Chamber to hold communications with a vote by political direction, because that is precisely what we must do, that is to share a political direction on what to do in Afghanistan and on how to manage who has arrived, who has managed to escape and must build the future and how to manage the tragedy of the refugees who, according to us of Brothers of Italy, must be faced by supporting the countries bordering Afghanistan. When we said that we were almost ridiculed; today it seems to me that this has become a shared idea and we are delighted. Brothers of Italy, however, on this political point wants to be immediately clear, because there has been no clarity and I am also sorry to see a sense of softness and slowness of politics in relation to the speed and violence of the Afghan drama. Brothers of Italy does not intend to dialogue with the regime of Islamic fundamentalists, nor does it intend to confront those who want to establish an Islamic Emirates at our doorstep. These questions remain unanswered because there is no shared European foreign policy and this is demonstrated by the fact that Europe has not been able to reason in time on the consequences of the geopolitical earthquake which would obviously have caused the withdrawal from Afghanistan and it is very strange that all this has taken many by surprise, also because, unfortunately, there is no lack of negative precedent on the destabilisation and in the wake of the chaos left by the withdrawal of the troops, as well as unfortunately - because we must never have the short memory - that old spoilt of wanting to dominate the world. With respect to the fourth pillar mentioned by Mr Di Maio, that of human rights and women, I cut a lot of things I had written, but I would like to be clear in the minute I have left. No dialogue with the Islamic Emirate, therefore, with those who appeal to Sharia as a source of law, with those who want to marry the girls at eight and make them a mother at eleven, with those who do not want them in Parliament, with those who do not want them doctor or judge, nor do they want them to go out alone or travel. No dialogue is possible because, be it clear, it does not depend on what they will do and what they will say: they are enemies of women, they are enemies of children, they are enemies of fundamental human rights that we have signed together - almost all the countries of the world, except the United States - also in the UN conventions. So when we think about what has been done, we need to be clear. This year is zero: this year in Afghanistan is the zero year that cancels all the successes and achievements that have been achieved and, unfortunately, records and reveals the failure of Western politics. Unfortunately, I have to cut, but let me add one final consideration. Yesterday she was killed in front of her sons Banu Negar Masoomi, eight months pregnant, killed because she was a policewoman from the prison in Ghor province. After she was killed, her brain was removed from the cranial box, and you know why? Because that's what the Taliban hate, the brains of women and those who don't think like them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u32	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u33	Mr President, in thanking the Ministers for their information, for their work during this period, I would start from the exercise that has also been done by many commentators, perhaps in a hasty and superficial manner, calling a failure in Afghanistan for the last 20 years. I think that when we talk about these issues we should deepen, study, understand the complexity of that theater. I do not want to disturb the times of the great game, but both in the national dimension (the very concept of Afghanistan) and in the religious one of Islam, we know of faults that are certainly to be studied and deepened. Who has been on the spot knows that one feels tajik, feels Uzbek, feels pashtun, feels hazara, does not feel Afghan. Islam itself is interpreted within the Sunni world itself in a different way: the greatest enemies are Sunni fundamentalists, the clash is between the Taliban and ISIS-K. We have worked in that area and the awareness of Afghan society, of our rights, of the fact that we can live in a different way, have assumed it thanks to us, thanks to the international coalition, to the military present who have allowed Afghan society to sprout and grow, just as the non-governmental organizations themselves have been able to do their work. We are proud to be that country that at Herat allowed us to have the highest literacy rate for women and girls, who for the first time were able to go to school, study and grow in awareness of their rights and this cannot be cancelled. Similarly, the work of the intelligence forces, the diplomatic corps and the armed forces cannot be erased, for which I express the thanks of the Democratic Party, as was done by Minister Di Maio and Minister Guerini. I thank you as Minister Guerini did on behalf of everyone and of the whole Government when he was in Herat, so let's leave the controversy on the Folgore and let's join in the thanks and applause to our Armed Forces, who have been thankfully thanked and welcomed [[Applause]] Now there will probably be the extraordinary G20, which will not be easy. I think that is the place where Italy can play its part, having the presidency in turn. I consider the journey that the Minister made to be correct, thus working on the bilateral channel but also on the multilateral one, because the United Nations Security Council Resolution No 2593 which he mentioned risks being a dead letter if the necessary consensus with China, Russia and Turkey for the free passage is not found precisely within the G20. We, in fact, have taken away 5,000 people, we are proud of the work done, but many people remain there, many people are refugees, they are in the camps, they are already displaced people, they need to be supported and helped. The G20 can be the place where we find these agreements, using in a smart and balanced way the leverage of international aid and also of currency reserves. Clearly, an agreement must be reached with China and Russia. On the relationship with the United States, I do not think it should be pointed out (Mr Guerini has returned from a recent visit to the United States) that the relationship in the Atlantic Alliance is fundamental. I believe that NATO can have a future when it has a strong and credible European pillar. Europe's strategic autonomy cannot be a dossier that we open at alternate stages; it is an issue that exists, but if we want to tackle it seriously it cannot be that of interviews in which we announce a rapid intervention force with 5,000 people. This is a much more complex situation, as you said well in your speeches. We need a common political agenda, we need to understand whether our position is more towards the Mediterranean, the Sahel and the Balkans or towards Russia. Can we balance the needs of the different European countries and build a common political agenda? Can we build common military capabilities, a common defence industry? That's what's at stake. Can we do that with 27 countries? I am beginning to conclude with two reflections. Perhaps we must overcome Europe's taboo at twenty-seven, because the catwalk rules - we know - will not work, because unanimity is needed and reinforced cooperation is likely to serve to some extent. But if we really want to have a common European defence, give NATO more strength and play our part in international stability and security, we need a common foreign and defence policy. Perhaps we will do so with a core of protagonists and pioneers, as was at the beginning that of the founding fathers. This is a serious reflection that must be done if we are to play a role as Italy in the Conference on the future of Europe and in the main fora. A final consideration which also concerns our society and European societies: everyone has rightly mobilized in the Italian and European squares to defend Afghans for the protection of human rights, women's rights and children's rights. However, the European societies themselves and the European public opinion themselves must ask themselves a fundamental question: to what extent are we prepared to defend them, even to die for those values and for those principles? Because if we don't give ourselves this answer, we risk being willing, going down to the streets for rights without being subsequent, and within the international scenarios also counts the option of force, the military option. From this point of view we need an extra awareness from politicians who tell public opinion the truth: if we want to be protagonists in Libya, if we want to be protagonists in the eastern Mediterranean, if we want to be protagonists in international scenarios, if we believe in those values that led over seventy years ago to build the Atlantic Alliance, we must take care of a piece of international stability and security. This is our mission and if we want to be responsible we must speak the language of truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u34	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u35	Mr President, one could not have had an epilogue worse than this, after twenty years of NATO occupation, after twenty years of human rights imperialism, to say it like Tony Blair, of rhetoric about the humanitarian war and the export of democracy. It was asked whether democracy can be exported: not when the interests at stake are so high and so are others. Biden's words, at the end of this adventure, left no doubt as to what America's interests were and were certainly not those of fighting a war in someone else's house. What's left? What's all this wonder, ripping off your clothes? What did you expect? Did someone really believe that the agreement with the Taliban, signed by Trump in February 2020, but already thought by Obama - as has been said - and then executed by Biden (four shriveled pages, tell us), would guarantee rights and peace? It seems that there is no trace of those words in that document: an agreement of the American administration made with the Taliban, applauded by NATO and by all the countries that gravitate around Afghanistan and the interests of Afghanistan, without the Afghan Government, the one wanted by the USA, the one that is the result of the export of democracy. Why? How can you read all this if not as a failure and surrender? Yet the U.S. Undersecretary of State assures that the war goals have been achieved. What goals? What have we achieved with thousands of deaths and an expenditure of EUR 5,400 billion - other than EUR 120 million - that could have eradicated the world's most extreme poverty? But above all, what do we leave behind? We leave a country on the brink of civil war, where all the hopes and promises of smuggled emancipation have been disregarded and abandoned, where there are thousands of refugees and internal refugees and not now, where young people and not only young people are now devastated by cocaine addiction, whose production has quadrupled in recent years, as well as arms trafficking, and these are the foundations of that country's economy. Do we want to fight it today? We arrive after 20 years and fight this economy. How? What are we going to tell the Afghan farmers about this? What we are witnessing is not only the failure of intervention in Afghanistan, but the failure of a world of ideas, and it is at least curious - and it would be worth thinking about - that these twenty years coincide with the twenty years of the G8 in Genoa. Twenty years ago, hundreds of thousands had manifested their hindsight, to say it in the words of Andrea Segre: twenty years ago there were those who already heard clearly that in the narrow canyon that divided the world between pros and against Taliban, there was a more courageous path that highlighted the myopia and madness of that doctrine. They were accused of maximumism and irresponsible utopianism; in hindsight, however, they undoubtedly represented the hindsight of before. They should have never stopped even after Genoa, and maybe we should try to start from there. But now, in the emergency, humanity and presence need first and foremost. In addition to the humanitarian corridors, which cannot in any way be reserved only for those who have collaborated with us; in addition to the fact that we must take care of the reception, in order not to send back those we bring back, as Laura Marmorale says in Naples, we will also have to think about how to help those who are willing to stay there and to resist, as she asked Giovanna Cardarelli of the CISDA, also in Naples during the demonstration of August 30 in favor of Afghanistan. Welcome to the G20, Minister, but for the time being the European response has been neither unitary nor satisfactory. We also reiterate the need for full implementation of Directive No 55, in order to ensure immediate protection for Afghan citizens and to try to remedy this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u36	She's registered to speak Senator Craxi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Afghan crisis which broke out in August, certainly not without warning, has a political and humanitarian dimension, but what still seems to be missing from many are the medium- and long-term effects of the event: a watershed in Middle Eastern policy and international structures. It would be too easy to recriminate the mistakes of these years and those of these last months and days. I would point out only to those in this House who also look at foreign affairs in a demagogic and rhetorical way that the fidelistic and a priori exaltation of the multilateralist model of the new Biden administration has proved to be deceptive propaganda. Although Western and U.S. presence in particular seemed increasingly difficult to sustain in Afghanistan - and for these reasons agreements with the Taliban functional to regulate the American disengagement were already signed in Doha in February 2020 under the Trump presidency - we cannot fail to point out the mistake in the timing made by Biden. Having said that, it would be completely wrong to take advantage of this circumstance to give rise to a fashionable anti-Americanism, which does not belong to our foreign policy, but is more the result of Beijing's propaganda, which has nothing to envy to the Taliban when it comes to repression of freedom and the protection of women's human rights, and in fact it is no coincidence that it already announces an Afghan epilogue for Taiwan. America is our strategic ally and an indispensable reference of the Western world to which criticism can be made, but on whose relationship there can be no doubt or hesitation. Moreover, to those who, taking advantage of these vicissitudes, criticize tout court twenty years of Western presence in Afghanistan, I remind you that, despite everything, at least the situation of the point of view of rights had improved: school education (female species), lay courts, minority rights, art and culture, which will now be subject to the Taliban ax. Of course, we have not solved, perhaps because it is irresolvable, the problem of creating a real state entity, because the West has been so efficient in military intervention, but it has lured itself into the illusion that the model of liberal democracy could be imposed from above, without first making its germs grow and consolidate in civil society. Unable to imagine a possible future for that reality, we have so wasted resources, efforts and credibility, creating a kind of game of goose, which has brought us back, well that goes, to the starting box. We are, therefore, in the presence of a defeat and the defeats matter. No one can therefore think that it will be enough to deal with the Taliban, making respect for a little human rights and freedom conditional on the promise to include the new regime, in need of resources, in the business system. It won't be like that. This simplistic idea is perhaps functional to the construction of that great East-West oil pipeline that should pass right into Afghan territory. This minimalist approach will hardly prevent violence, summary stoning, the humiliation of women or the abuse of girls, sold in the name of false religious precepts, which represent an insult to Islam even before the fundamental principles that protect the person. We must, therefore, be aware that it will not be easy to put together a real intercourse with a nascent theocracy of drug trafficking and that no dialogue will be possible in the absence of real and concrete signs of openness, which go beyond the statements of these last days. No intercourse is possible if they prevent people who want to leave Afghanistan from doing so freely. We must be firm in demanding compliance with certain minimum conditions for dialogue, as listed by the same High Representative of the European Union, Josep Borrell. Let us make it clear that our relationship with the Taliban will not be easy, not least because it will be undermined by interference and third-party interests. It is evident to everyone how some new world powers, with their hegemonic designs, try to corner the West, demonstrating its cultural decline, even before economic, also in order to capture the exploitation of one of the world's largest rare earth deposits such as Afghanistan. The statements of the Taliban spokesman, Zabiullah Mujahid, who, while asking Italy to recognise the new Afghan Islamic State (a decision that, I stress, cannot be taken unilaterally by Italy), claims Kabul's strategic partnership with Beijing, testify to the extent of the stakes and the difficulties that lie ahead. The Afghan question therefore requires us to open a serious reflection in the Western community, especially within a Europe once again divided and lagging behind on the great challenges of our time. The events of Kabul risk creating a domino effect throughout the Middle East and giving rise to the many extremisms of the region, as well as revitalizing some power stations of terror such as Qaeda and giving space to new actors: let us think of the strengthening of Qatar, Pakistan and Turkey in the Muslim world and the rapprochement of Tehran with Kabul. These are situations that will have important repercussions and that, for example, can give China, not only the strength to subvert Asian balances in its favor, but to gain an advantage and new allies in the global chessboard. In Syria, for example, militias enlisted in the Idlib area applaud the Taliban recapture of Afghanistan and Hamas plans new attacks and a network of alliances. There are thus epochal challenges for the West on the horizon and there is much more to be recovered than the prestige, authority or urgency to cope with the arrival of the refugees. Our security and our freedoms are at stake today. Europe on all must make a leap forward and it is here that, as Italy, we can play a role, strong of the commendable commitment of our Armed Forces in the Middle Eastern and Mediterranean world and of the positive perception that the previous republican history, the much-vaunted First Republic still gives us in the area. President Mattarella is right: the rhetoric of welcome in Europe clashes with the reality of the facts. The next few months will be even more a litmus test, with statements coming from many chancellors, Berlin in the lead, aimed at rejecting the idea of establishing EU quotas for the reception of refugees. But at the same time we must know that the threat of a return to jihadist terrorism requires closer coordination between national police and intelligence in the European Union and that the possibility of a substantial flow of Afghan refugees fleeing the brutality of the Taliban requires common and shared rules to welcome and integrate. All this without forgetting that the issue of economic migrants remains open, on which our nation continues to pay a very heavy duty, despite the small progress achieved at the European summit last June by President Draghi. And not to mention the fact that we will soon have to portray as Europe the conditions of our agreements with Turkey, which regulates the tap of migratory flows from the Balkan route. In essence, although declined in several ways and on several dossiers, the theme is a single European security, which, however, requires prior European foreign policy and therefore the definition of what the European interest is. Having an integrated defence means being active actors on the world stage, having the ability to project and respond to events, knowing that this can only be achieved through a fully democratic reform of the Union. Only with more democracy and less Euroburocracy, with an approach that puts aside particular axes and interests, will there be the prerequisites for achieving the objective and then moving from unanimity to majority voting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u38	Senator Fusco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I would like to begin by thanking you for the timetable for this information. It is important for the Assembly to be informed of fundamental events of international politics, because the consequences of such serious crises, which appear far away and from the contours still unclear, have direct implications for our country and our world. History, even recent, has taught us this. That is why developing a healthy debate, which is at the heart of these issues, must be our priority. As a party, since the beginning of the escalation of the events that followed after the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, we have expressed the need to report to Parliament or to the Defence Commissions, as it has happened, to discuss the geopolitical crisis that is affecting the area and the geopolitical reflections that it will have in the international context, with particular attention to our country. What we have witnessed and which we are continuing to witness is a dramatic scenario, as dramatic is the collapse of the Afghan Government and its institutions, which with great commitment and effort, with huge economic resources, with diplomatic capacities and also with the loss of many lives of our military, we have helped build in the last twenty years. It is clear and undeniable that what happened in Afghanistan represents a defeat for the entire international community and now requires an analysis and serious reflection on the mistakes made by the West, first of all by the United States of America of Biden and, cascade, by the other countries engaged in Afghanistan, which had to face a retreat that allowed the sudden resumption of power by the Taliban. These events highlighted the great limitations of the Western powers, also in terms of forecasting capacity compared to what would happen in the aftermath of the withdrawal of the troops. What has happened in Afghanistan requires our country to think seriously about the role that Italy and other European states play within the Atlantic Alliance. It is an alliance of which we are convincedly part, but which perhaps, due to the retro-thought of a certain political part, we have always lived in an exaggeratedly passive way. Our interests are also represented within the Atlantic Alliance's borders: pursuing them, together with our strategic ally par excellence, the United States, must be an imperative for our foreign policy of the future. Precisely for this reason it is essential to work hard to bring our interests to this multilateral forum, which in contemporary history has seen Italy among the first countries for commitment, resources, men and lives sacrificed. It is necessary to rethink the Alliance, with the shared and now manifested desire to arrive at a new NATO strategic document, in the short term. This must be an opportunity, which we cannot let go. The world is changing rapidly and the great multilateral fora we are part of, the European Union in the first place, have a framework of rules that are stale and anachronistic. The same commitment that all of us - or at least a large part of this House - have expressed in our desire to rewrite the old economic rules of the European Union, which have been overcome by history, must also be shown in the desire to bring about a renewal of the strategic concept of the Atlantic Alliance. In this rewriting of rules and guidelines it is essential to have the courage to engage. Europe has so far been unable to manage the Afghan crisis and must now regain new credibility in managing the situation. Italy now has the opportunity to play a central role, starting from the next meeting of the G20, chaired by our President of the Council, Mario Draghi, to whom we ask to extend participation also to those countries not invited that can contribute to the serenity of the area. We cannot allow China to invest, as it would seem already have begun to do, in the Central Asian country, in its reconstruction and in the mining sector, perhaps recognizing the Taliban Government and the newly-constituted Islamic emirate, effectively sanctioning their control of the area. It certainly cannot be a solution that some politicians have proposed, so it can be considered a recognition of this Government by our country or the start of a dialogue with the Taliban, deceiving themselves that they can prove different from what they really are, forgetting the executions to which they have accustomed us, our fellow countrymen dead to fight them, the medieval conditions in which they would like to return to live the country and their consideration of women. In addition to the geopolitical question and the role that Italy intends to play in the international context and to those that will be the appropriate reflections also on the other missions in which we are involved, avoiding the possibility that what happened in Afghanistan can happen, we would like to know how it intends to move the country with reference to returns and entrances in Italy. We believe that those who have worked together over the years to make Afghanistan a democratic country must be put in absolute security and at the same time we hope that the international community will act quickly to prevent the escape from the Taliban from becoming an uncontrolled exodus, which would have dramatic consequences in terms of human lives. In fact, I remember that, before the last events, there were already over 700,000 internally displaced people and now there are 2.5 million, according to the latest estimates, those who intend to leave the country. Without serious planning and shared among all states, we risk that the leaks will turn into a messy exodus, with enormous prejudice to those who flee and to the countries of destination. We must also avoid the risk of terrorist infiltration through illegal immigration and on this the Services and intelligence will have to show a much greater attention and ability than those put in place in my Province, Viterbo, where we have not been able to prevent, intercept and prevent that more than 10,000 people, with thousands of cars and motorhomes coming from all over Europe, occupied a private ground, and for the development of a rave in which death, drugs and malaria have followed for more than six days. In one of the many speeches to the nation made during the tragic events in Afghanistan, Biden used a significant term with reference to the future trajectories of international terrorism. He literally said that terrorism has spread like a metastasis in the world. It is a correct vision: the fragmentation and fluidity of the great brands of terrorism from ISIS to Qaeda is a form of established reality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. FUSCO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm finishing, ma'am. At the same time, it is a danger. The boundaries of counter-terrorism fade, danger changes and we need to change our ability to respond. In conclusion, Mr President, I would remind you that the fight against terrorism, which began in 2001 in Afghanistan, has put the al Qaeda estate to the test, which has suffered the elimination of its main representatives and has weakened enormously. Now in the center of Asia we find a country in disarray, with power those same guerrillas who gave home, hospitality and resources to Qaeda allowing it to inflame the world. We need great attention and we must reiterate that the priority of the Italian and European political class in the coming years is to secure our country and our continent. History has taught us what it means to underestimate problems; we do not fall into the same mistake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u40	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u41	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the entire Movimento 5 Stars Group in the Senate, I would like to thank Mr Di Maio and Mr Guerini very sincerely and not on an occasion. [[Applause]] for the great work they have done to bring to safety in our country not only our fellow citizens, but also 5,000 Afghans. Thank you! No other European country has done so much for our Afghan friends, and in this regard a particular commendation must be addressed to the Italian diplomat Tommaso Claudi, who remained until the end in Kabul to rescue as many people as possible. [[Applause]] Farnesina and Defense, with the valuable contribution of our intelligence, have achieved the greatest possible result, finding themselves operating in the worst of situations, that heavy legacy that President Biden also found himself having to manage, caused by the wrong choices of the past US administrations that, instead of ending this war ten years ago, when Bin Laden was eliminated, decided to remain in excess and then leave the country to the Taliban, without agreeing with them an orderly and well-managed passage of power deliveries. Staying has meant unnecessarily prolonging a war that has inflicted incalculable suffering on the Afghan people and on the many Western soldiers who have lost their lives. A special memory goes to our 54 fallen and 700 wounded. [[Applause]] Since 2013 the Movimento 5 Stars has been calling for the end of the war in Afghanistan and the withdrawal of our troops from that country. It was our first parliamentary act, the first motion that we had just entered Parliament. We said then - and we have continued to say all these years - that this was a useless war because there was never a real reason to declare war on the Afghan Taliban, who not only had no responsibility in the attacks of September 11 - responsibility to be sought elsewhere from Saudi Arabia - but were also willing to hand over Bin Laden, an offer that was rejected by then President George Bush, the real leader of this war enterprise together with Tony Blair and their European partners, among which stood out the then Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause]] We said then that that war, as the late Gino Strada recalled in his last article, was never a mission of peace, but a war launched by the United States without any authorization from the UN Security Council and therefore outside the framework of international law and the universal right of peoples to self-determination. Our participation in this war was in fact a clear violation of Article 11 of our Constitution and this should be the responsibility of those who governed our country at the time. We said then that exporting democracy using military force is a contradiction of terms and has proved to be a total failure. We said that this war was only bringing further destruction, death and poverty to a population already devastated by decades of conflict. We also claimed that instead of countering opium production during the occupation, Afghanistan became a narco-state that flooded the world of heroin and we said then that trillions of dollars spent to destroy Afghanistan for the benefit of the military-industrial complex could be spent far better both there for the reconstruction and development of that country, and here for the well-being of our fellow citizens. Eight years ago, in fact, it was clear that the war was lost, because the Taliban already at that time actually controlled most of the Afghan territory. Unfortunately for years we have been unheard, indeed mocked and mocked like naive and ignorant poor. Today, after the facts have denied twenty years of propaganda by giving us reason, our positions are shared by everyone, we have heard it today too. I ask myself and ask you: will those who were ironic about our positions - I think of politicians, intellectuals, journalists - have the humility to honor the lucidity that the Movimento 5 Stars has always had on this sad affair? [[Applause]] Unfortunately, I'm afraid not. This is demonstrated by the ignoble attacks directed at Giuseppe Conte, only for having told the simple truth, namely that it is important to try to establish a dialogue with the Taliban. Attention, this is not the same as recognizing or legitimizing them, but those who are familiar at least with the alphabet of international relations know that it is a road that must be tempted. Giuseppe Conte has even been accused of being the Taliban's lawyer, but then the same accusation should also be made to the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi, the German Chancellor Angela Merkel and many others. The dialogue with the Taliban, initiated by the Americans themselves, is the only way to press them in order to obtain from them what interests us: today humanitarian corridors, tomorrow respect for human rights, especially those of women. It may be a de facto reality to us unwelcome, but it is the Taliban who have won the war and it is they who control the country, so it is with them that we must try to establish a dialogue if we really care to influence positively the fate of the Afghan people. Those who today say "never dialogue with the Taliban" are the same ones who until yesterday wanted to continue this war indefinitely, but isolating that regime will only be worse, not only for the Afghans, but also for us. If the West and Europe oppose dialogue, the regime will become dangerously radical, financing itself with anti-Western jihad and drug trafficking, or turning to other unreliable international actors who are waiting for nothing else. I conclude by saying that experience should teach all the supposed geopolitical masters that instead of attacking us it is perhaps better to listen to what the Movimento 5 Stars supports, making Italy and the European Union the protagonists of a real mission of peace, a strong diplomatic initiative aimed at starting a conditional negotiation with those who govern Afghanistan today. Aid in exchange for respect for human rights, for the sole purpose of alleviating the situation of the population of that country. This is the only way to make up for twenty years of mistakes, we owe it to the Afghan people who cannot be abandoned and to the many Italian and European children who have sacrificed their lives for Afghanistan. I welcome the pragmatic approach and the courageous diplomatic initiatives outlined by Minister Di Maio, the national action plan to support the Afghan people, the proposal for a G20 dedicated to Afghanistan, on which he will have our full support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u42	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Minister for Defence, whom I thank for his willingness. I am suspending the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders, which is convened now. (The sitting was suspended at 3.10 p.m. and resumed at 4.06 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u43	The Conference of Leaders established the timetable for work until 16 September. The continuation of the current week is reserved for the work of the Commissions. Next week's timetable provides, starting on Tuesday 14 September, at 16.30, for the discussion of Decree-Law No 105 on the Covid-19 emergency, which is being examined in the Chamber of Deputies, as well as for the draft law delegation on the reform of the criminal trial, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and for the civil trial, where concluded by the Commission. The Conference of Leaders will meet again at 3 p.m. on Tuesday 14 September. The sitting will now be suspended until 16.30 and will resume with the commemoration of the figure of the late Senator Saviane.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u44	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 16 September: [[Tuesday 7 September h. 12 - Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Minister for Defence on developments in Afghanistan]] The week from 7 to 10 September is mainly reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, September 14, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 105, Emergency COVID-19 and security social and economic activities (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on September 21) - Drawing of law n. 2353 - Delegation of criminal proceedings (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawings of law n. 1662 and connected - Delegation of civil trial (final vote with the presence of the legal number) (where concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 15 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 16 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 105, COVID-19 Emergency and Security Social and Economic Activities), n. 2353 (Delegate Criminal Procedure) and n. 1662 and related (Delegate Civil Process) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 105, COVID-19 emergency and safety social and economic activities) (Groups 3 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u47	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I only take the floor to announce that, after hearing the other group leaders, and even if this does not raise a problem for the Presidency, we have asked for the possibility that tomorrow, as the Commission meetings are scheduled, there will be no calls from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. to allow us to hold a small group meeting. If this of course does not create problems even at the organizational level, it would certainly be positive for us. As I have already mentioned, on my request I have heard all the other group leaders who have told me that there are no particular problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u48	Senator Romeo, because - as you say - all the group leaders agree, nothing prevents. The sitting is suspended and will resume at 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.08 a.m. and resumed at 16.32 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u49	[[The President stands up and with him the whole House.]] Senators, I wish to address a moving thought to Senator Paolo Saviane, a concrete, competent and passionate politician. Paolo Saviane was an authentic protagonist of the institutional life of Bellunese and its mountains, territories that he knew well and that in him had found a faithful interpreter and an important point of reference for the defense of their peculiarities and their requests. A spontaneous sensibility his, enriched also by many years of experience as an entrepreneur in the field of timber. A tireless attention to the many daily problems of mountain communities, which has marked every stage of its journey at the service of the citizens. A path that Paolo Saviane had begun in 2012 with the election to the City Council of Puos d'Alpago, city where he had grown up, and that after many years as secretary of the Northern League in the province of Belluno was continuing with commitment and dedication as senator in this legislature. I still remember one of your last speeches in this House, during the general discussion on the decree-law on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries: a sincere and heartfelt exhortation to ensure that the establishment of a Ministry for the ecological transition could really translate into new and better public policies to protect the environment, to enhance its wealth, to make it an opportunity for today's generations and future generations. The disease, with which he fought with tenacity for a long time, had never scratched his smile, the desire to do, the willingness to roll up his sleeves and that uncommon sense of responsibility towards the citizens, which has always been one of his strongest virtues. The news of his sudden disappearance was a cause of great pain for all. With Paolo Saviane we lose a loyal colleague, a beautiful person, always available to sincere, open and constructive confrontation, respecting the positions and thoughts of all. I therefore renew my condolences and my personal closeness to the pain of Senator Paolo Saviane's family, relatives and friends. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u52	STEFANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we would never have thought of coming to this day. Much could be said about Paul Saviane, perhaps because he spoke very little. He was a man born and lived in the mountains, in his mountain, that of Alpago, and of that territory was son, so much so that he had assumed its concreteness, sincerity and simplicity. He was not only a senator, a politician, a party leader, but also a good and serious entrepreneur. He was born into a large family and immediately followed in the footsteps of the family, working in his father's sawmill, which he then helped develop with his brothers. Often on train trips it reminded me of the early days when the old people went to cut plants in the woods, explained the name of the tools and how they used to be used. Paul spoke with passion, often with apprehension about the timber world; he knew its systems and had experienced even the most difficult periods of it directly. He thought even further about wood and reflected on the future of a sector that suffered a great crisis. Paul also helped to establish a consortium of companies and its brand, Legno Veneto, and of that Venetian wood in another way often talked about it after the terrible tornado Vaia that left much of that timber on the ground. He was proud of Veneto and was bound to his territory by an indissoluble feeling. He was City Councillor, Councillor of the mountain community and immediately interpreted his role not as an end, but as a means of promoting his land and giving it a future. It was also in some ways a precursor of projects that only years later became a topic of discussion. In the 1995 municipal election program he even spoke of a merger project of municipalities in order to unite the forces of those small mountain realities often suffering. Passion, innate prudence and balance then led him to play roles first within the League, as provincial secretary of Belluno, and then as senator. He came to this House with great humility and held this office with a true spirit of service and a sense of respect. The mountain has never forgotten it, and all its parliamentary action focused on the issue of skiing facilities, on the post tornado initiatives Vaia or on the recognition of ZES in mountain areas. We knew him this way: a mediator of nature, a calming and helpful man, a man so well that he apologized even when he was right. His kindness and kindness never made him come at all less than the determination and stubbornness he showed in his work. It was really a few words, but also a lot of facts. Also for these reasons, myself, when I was Minister of Regional Affairs and Self-Government, in 2018 I gave him the mandate to delegate to the Committee of Funds of Border Municipalities: an assignment that he carried out with loyalty and balance, with continuous dialogue with the mayors, in a confrontation with and between entities and territories that, never more than today, is essential in political action. He was truly proud of that mandate, but only because he allowed him to work and give concrete results to that mountain that was his root, his beginning, but also his end. Paul, he betrayed your heart, the heart that was your strength. [[Applause]] For the affection of all of you, fellow senators, I would like to thank you, on our behalf and on behalf of the family, for all the messages you have sent us. The wealth, energy and will of a man, however, survive also to himself. We colleagues will always take him with us. You are and will remain forever a loyal man, a sincere friend, a servant of ideas and not of men and a good legist. Hello, brother. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u55	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, following Mr Stefani's words, I sincerely do not know what to add more to stress the pain at this time. Two brief words also from me, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomouss, to associate myself with the pain for the disappearance of my dear friend, Senator Paolo Saviane, and to offer our deepest condolences to the family and the League Group. Very briefly, he, like us in the Autonomous Group, was a mountain man, a proud representative of the Belluno Alps. We often discussed the problems and needs of our territories. He was a very competent member of the 13th Commission. I have to say that arguing with him was easy, because we always agreed, also because he was a calm, polite and above all very competent person. His way of being was that of a reserved man and a park of words, but, when he spoke, always wise, passionate, frank, with a misguided love for his land and always with the goal of the good of his people. He left on his toes, after a long illness that surprised, I believe, not just me, but almost everyone in this House. He left with the confidentiality of the mountaineers. First, when there was the memory of the President, I did not participate in the applause, as we do, mountain people, when we greet the solemnity of death with silence and reflection. Hello Paolo, now rest in peace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u58	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, it is difficult to speak after the words of Minister Stefani. Remembering my colleague Paolo Saviane is really difficult at the moment, because he was for all of us a really helpful person, with whom you immediately became friends, even if it was a few words. Unfortunately, he disappeared too soon because of a long illness. As has been mentioned, it was part of the Commission territory, environment, environmental assets of the Senate and had always been close and spokesperson of the needs of the mountain realities, sometimes forgotten, of Veneto and not only, enhancing its own needs and peculiarities. With his policy he had brought added value to the territory. He is very sorry, not only because he would have had his whole life ahead of him to develop the projects he has been working on for years, but also because of the great esteem we all nurtured and continue to feed for him. We have really lost a kind, helpful colleague, a point of reference, first of all for the reality from which he came, the Belluno one. With Paolo Saviane goes a politician capable, close to the territory, who has always had a great passion for politics and his land, who has tried to enhance, not only at local level, but also at national level, as a senator. He has always made himself available to local authorities and the territory, with that spirit of service that he continued to demonstrate even when he arrived in the Senate; always available to dialogue, to confront himself. I remember that sometimes we met on the train, together with Minister Stefani, to dialogue precisely those topics that were most dear to him, starting from the Veneto Region. I want to remember him as well, as a good person, who has definitely left an important imprint. I extend my deepest condolences to the family, to all those who have been close to him and to my colleagues and colleagues of the League. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u61	Drago (FdI). Mr President, I go over most of what I should have done, because a great deal has already been said. Paul has already been introduced. We have been colleagues in the Committee on Finance and Treasury and we have dealt here with a proposal for a Sicilian regional law (still in progress) on mountain free zones. I must say that Paolo, together with other colleagues, has shown a lot of attention, but above all respect for this proposal of the Region of Sicily, respect that I have not noticed absolutely in the part of the hemicycle in which I first sat. Paul's political work was peculiar. It was the political doing of the one who did not want to emerge. In the collective imagination politicians are those who appear on television networks and at communicative level; well, he was, as others have already said, a concrete, in fact, discreet person. I think that this, at political level, should serve everyone as an example. The example must be that of a fundamental value system, that goes beyond party divisions and that sees as its objective the common good and the res publica, the parties not as an end, but as a means. In fact, he had total respect for the person. In politics, when there is an opposition of opinions, this must not include a confrontation and a lack of personal and mutual respect. When a politician comes to attack and attack verbally, even on a personal level, another colleague, it means that he is devoid of content. The comparison for Paolo Saviane was always on the content: it was an authentic comparison. I conclude by telling you that the day that the news of Paolo Saviane's death arrived I found myself having to manage a happy day, a birthday, and so I found myself reflecting on the particularity of life and on this alternation between life and death. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u64	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, in his speech and in the words of Minister Stefani, the experience of life and the political commitment of my colleague Paolo Saviane, an entrepreneur of wood and therefore a person who is extremely concrete and attentive to the needs of those who work, have been summed up. Chairman of Consorzio Legno veneto, Councillor of the Mountain Union, City Councillor of Puos d'Alpago, Secretary of the League. As has been well mentioned, I believe that all these experiences translate the two distinguishing figures of his existence and his life: territory and politics. These are two words, a binomial, which should never be divided for those who, like us, take care of public affairs. He did it with a style, as everyone has remembered, really particular. Everyone has recognized his education and his approach always correct, kind and helpful to comparison. I met Paolo Saviane first in the Finance and Treasure Commission and then became colleagues in the Land, Environment and Environmental Commission and I was able to really appreciate his approach and the way in which he dealt with the various measures we have examined. This aspect of his political commitment, linked to the territory, has always emerged in the various measures that have been dealt with. The President mentioned his last speech here in this House, in which he had dealt with a specific issue, but I could recall when the Finance and Treasury Committee discussed the amendments to the law on cooperative banks, local banks, or measures in the Commission on land, environment, environmental goods, which had to do with the issues of mountain or timber. A person, therefore, who really dedicated his whole existence to what was dear to him: his own land, his own territory and his own people. I think it is a beautiful example and, as unfortunately often happens when some colleagues leave us, we are all called to reflect on these aspects and on these facts: if when we are operational, in life, people really understand and appreciate what we do and the style we use. Recognizing it when we are no longer there is certainly a beautiful and important thing, but I would like this to be recognized even as each of us operates. Paolo Saviane - we have all said this - managed to shine these qualities and his abilities. Therefore, on behalf of the Democratic Party Group, I renew, also on our part, the closeness to the family members, to the League Group and to all the people who loved him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u67	BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, on behalf of LEU-Ecosolidali and all the members of the Mixed Group, I would also like to express my deepest sympathy and sincere closeness to the family, friends and colleagues of the League for the disappearance of the late Senator Paolo Saviane. Those who were lucky enough to know him, like myself and the previous colleague, having been a colleague of the Commission first in the Finance Committee and then in the Environment Commission, could not fail to appreciate his human qualities, already mentioned several times. This is a clear sign of the universality of the judgment that each one of us had of Paul, who still has and will retain in remembrance, availability, correctness, education, confrontation and competence. Paul probably represents one of the ideal models of parliamentarians, of those who represent the nation and at the same time passionately and competently defended his land, his Veneto, his Bellunese, his mountain, which made him almost love even those who, like me, southern man, have little confidence with those territories. Paul will remain an indelible memory in all of us and we will remember him every time the political passion, the confrontation and the dialectical confrontation risk making us lose a little 'control, go over the lines. Paul was of a calmness equal to his availability and intelligence. Paul will truly be with us and we will all remember him as a competent and passionate colleague, especially from the human point of view for those who have had the opportunity to know him in the short time of frequentation of this assembly. Rest in peace. I renew my condolences and closeness to all those whom Paul loved and from whom they received love. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u70	PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked my Group President to speak on behalf of Forza Italia because I was deeply impressed by his sudden departure. I do not know all your life that you, Mr President, summed up earlier. The fact of not knowing our lives and our experiences is a limit of all of us among us because, if we knew our lives, perhaps relations and stories would be different. Three years of friendship is important. We were telling each other the facts, experiences and expectations of being here in Parliament as senators. He was a real man and I speak of man in the all-inclusive sense of man and woman. He was polite and discreet; of a few words, but those few were wise and effective, summing up and explanatory of society, its needs, its feelings and hopes. I was - I think - among the last to talk to him before he was unable to attend because he was not well and he had to make some visits. He shone fear from his eyes, but also hope. He said: we will find each other again for festive moments. Many times he laughed with me and others of the medicines he was forced to take, because this is the situation of those who have diseases that have a long course. They always say the best are gone. In this case, it's true. This House loses something impalpable, moving and constructive. We will therefore have a strong memory, a hope, a certainty, a commitment to his family, to the college, all the people he represented once he was elected and to the League Group. For those who want, we also pray.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u73	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I have met Paul in the Finance Committee in this parliamentary term. He immediately approached with shyness, but with the desire to do and interact for his territory, for politics. He was a mild man; sometimes he looked at you, smiled at you and smiled at his whole face. He welcomed you and welcomed you to this House and to the Commissions where - as has often been said - you come to the confrontation. Well, he gave us an example of how politics can be done by listening, comparing and working together. We carried out the bill on Chioggia all together, and he was an active part with everyone else in defining a matter that had been going on for several years. When I heard the news, I tried to talk to my colleagues at the League because it seemed unlikely that anyone could leave any day and leave such a big gap. I renew my deepest condolences to your family, friends, all of you. Let us never forget this, because it has given us a great example of politics and humanity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u74	I thank everyone for this moment of great participation and emotion for our missing colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u77	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, last September 2nd was celebrated the centenary of the death of Napoleon Colayanni, a very young 15-year-old Garibaldi, a university professor, sociologist and essayist from Enne, whose political activity, begun in 1872, saw him as city councilman in his Castrogiovanni (the present-day Enna), provincial councillor until 1890, when he became a member of the House of the Kingdom, re-elected subsequently for ten legislatures, until his death. Guide of the Republicans in Parliament, he was close to the movement of the Sicilian Workers' Fasci movement, marrying the social cause of the urban proletariat, of agricultural workers, miners and workers, mediating with the Crispi Government to avoid its repression. He promoted important parliamentary initiatives such as the inquiry into Eritrea, but Napoleon Colayanni will be remembered as the one who broke out the scandal of the Roman Bank, denouncing in Parliament the perverse interweaving of the evil between politicians and bankers. Thanks to its moral and ethical conception of politics, Italy as a whole, on 20 December 1892, was able to discover the millionaires of a bank ready to feed entrepreneurs, politicians and even the highest offices of the State. His complaint led, a month later, to the arrest of the Governor of the Roman Bank and subsequently to the resignation of Giolitti as President of the Council. As a doctor and criminologist, he admonished the Lombrosian theories, stating that criminals originated from environmental and socio-economic factors and centered their studies on them. In 1898 he published a pamphlet entitled "For the cursed race" with which he intended to refute the racist conception of Cesare Lombroso. The cause of the workers of the Sicilian hardwood and the carusis, the young workers of the sulfur mines, proposed the diffusion of culture and the political awareness of the masses as an instrument for the moral and civil redemption of the island and the south. Extraordinary figure, not sufficiently studied, Napoleon Colajanni concluded his essay on the Mafia with these words: The kingdom of the Mafia in Sicily will cease only on the day when with a true establishment ab imis the Sicilians will acquire the true freedom, the right and the means to punish the bullies, to put the thieves to the pillage and to ensure justice for all. President, on the resumption of the Assembly's work, I feel the moral and civic duty to remember a fellow citizen of mine who was so enlightened and acute, a man of the institutions who fought in favour of the masses and against the evils that plagued the country. Even today, those plagues denounced loudly by Colajanni create the political and social distortions in which illegality and evil flourish, often with the silence of the State, in a scenario - let's be honest - not different from the past. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u80	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I take this opportunity, at such a sad time for the Senate, to recall that this night in our city there was the premature disappearance of Luciano Lapenna, former mayor, former regional councillor, a person always attentive to the needs of others. I also take the opportunity to express in the Senate Chamber the condolences of all the citizens of our city and of the Abruzzo Corregionals. I would now like to focus on a business crisis in order to express solidarity and support for the concerns expressed by the trade unions and mayors of Sangro, Aventino and the Frentana area, in order to address the issue of Sevel Stellantis. These concerns have also been formalized to the ministers Giorgetti and Orlando by the trade union organizations that urge Stellantis to raise the veil on their intentions before they are put on white in the new business plan, also in order to limit the working impacts caused by the lack of supply of semiconductors produced in Malaysia. I don't think it's just a microchip thing. At the beginning 2022 will be presented the first industrial plan of Stellantis and it is legitimate, given the current situation, to assume an intervention on the workforce, on the factories, in order to be able to center the targets of the fusion, while the productive sites of the individual Countries of the FCA and PSA empire are competing carrying out each one of their own claims. We also know that the automotive industry is dealing with the ecological transition of the four-wheel market, the conversion of entire sectors of the industry and an ongoing merger between FCA and PSA, which already had some problems, overlaps, production overcapacity, with a total cost exceeding those of the Spanish and French factories. In Val di Sangro, where the Ducato is assembled as a top vehicle, the most sold vehicle in Europe, a site where we also worked for the competition with Peugeot and Citroen, the production of 300,000 vans risks being shared and calibrated below market demands; a reduction that could impact on the direct employment and industrial input of the components. The production situation of Sevel is characterized by great uncertainty for all workers starting from temporary and leasing staff. It has never happened in the history of FCA and FIAT that the level of employment of internal staff was so low compared to the number of workers administered, which instead are in very high numbers and for such a long period. In recent months the company has been urged to hire them; it is assumed a loss of about 700 jobs. We also know that the plant in Val di Sangro is suffering from the competition of the Polish site of Gliwice where Opel Astra was produced, where Stellantis decided to anticipate the production of the Duchy in February, which will be about 100,000 units. It seems that already in 2022 about 50,000 units will be produced. From Sevel's slab department they are leaving for Gliwice - the unions denounce - entire sides of the van to be assembled across borders and some companies of the Abruzzo pipeline are already producing for the Polish plant, opening new factories on site also to exploit the Warsaw decision to extend in the area the tax incentives of the ZES, the high infrastructure of a strategic area to serve the whole European market. The Polish ZES provides for a lot of facilitations and also derogations from the regulations on employment contracts, reduction of social security contributions and wages. It is not difficult to imagine, therefore, a migration. I think that we should take immediate action, including with the instrument of the institutional development contract (CIS) of sustainable industry. We must intervene, because I remember that 700 jobs are at risk. Let's all work, beyond the political color, for these companies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u83	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to request the answer to Question 4-05720 to the Minister for the Environmental Transition. This question concerns the reopening of the Roncigliano landfill in Albano Lazio, already identified by Minister Cingolani as a solution several months ago and then reopened by an order counted and urgent by the mayor Raggi first and then by an order of President Zingaretti. Well, that dump had long been closed because in 2016 the TMB plant had caught fire and the environmental damage it had caused had been declared. It was long closed because in the area below the landfill the incidence of tumors is much higher than in other areas and compared to the national average, heavy metals and pollutants have been detected above the limits of the water for human use, the inhabitants of the area below do not even have running water, but have only the wells. It is an agricultural area of great value. On the landfill there was an anti-mafia ban that would have advised not to reopen it as such, but before checking whether the reasons that had led to the ban had lapsed, there is an environmental impact authorisation expired since 2009, renovated in a surreptitious and inappropriate way by an executive of the Lazio Region, which has long been at home precisely because of the accusations of concussion and corruption regarding another landfill. ARPA data on spilled waste shows that 50% of the waste arrived at that landfill is not up to standard. The citizens have been in permanent garrison since August and no one has gone to express their solidarity and no one responds to these illices. Irregularity and illegality cannot be the answer to the emergency of Rome's waste. I ask the Minister to respond immediately, because there will be a big demonstration on Friday and there are citizens who have been protesting since August. The mayors of the area and myself have been there to see the mess that happens in those places. I would also like, in accordance with the commitment that we have all made in the PNRR for the ecological transition, to at least the Minister come to answer a question about his work and the work of the local authorities on this landfill. Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to speak even though I was not registered.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-357.ana.u85	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 14 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.15 p.m.
