ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 22 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Gentle President, I inform your Ladyship that by decree of the President of the Republic today, adopted on my proposal, subject to approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 10 (3) of Law No. 400 of 23 August 1988, of the delegation of functions conferred by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, has been assigned the title of Deputy Minister to the State Secretary to the same Dicastery on. Laura CASTELLI F.to Mario Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders, which met on Thursday 22 April, decided that the joint debate on motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 2 will take place tomorrow. 341, 342 and 343 of individual distrust of the Minister of Health, at first signature respectively of Senators Ciriani, Paragone and Crucioli. For the illustration of each individual motion five minutes are expected. Each group will have ten minutes for the joint debate and ten minutes for explanations of vote. Three calls will be given to the vote on the motions. I would also like to say that at 3 p.m. on Thursday 29 April the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Labour and Social Policy will be present. The other topics already foreseen in the current week's calendar remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u6	The next item is: "Communication from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the transmission to the European Commission of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would all be wrong to think that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, despite its historic importance, is just a set of projects that are both necessary and ambitious, a set of numbers, objectives and deadlines. I would suggest that you read it in another way: put in the lives of Italians, ours but above all those of young people, women, citizens who will come, the expectations of those who have suffered most from the devastating effects of the pandemic, the aspirations of families worried about the education and the future of their children, the right demands of those who have not or have lost a job, the concerns of those who have had to close their activities to allow us all to curb the contagion, the anxiety of the disadvantaged territories to free themselves from hardships and poverty, the awareness of every community that the environment must protect and protect. In all the programmes that I am presenting to your attention today, however, there is also and above all the fate of the country, the measure of what will be its role in the international community, its credibility and its reputation as founder of the European Union and protagonist of the Western world. It is therefore not only a question of income, work, well-being but also of civil values, of feelings of our national community that no number, no table can ever represent. I say this because it is clear that, in carrying out the projects, delays, inefficiencies and short-sighted visions of the part before the common good will weigh directly on our lives (especially on those of the weakest citizens and our children and grandchildren) and perhaps there will be no more time to remedy them. In presenting this document to which our future is closely linked, I would like to take up, especially in the aftermath of the celebration of the anniversary of the liberation of Italy, the testimony of one of the Fathers of our Republic. Alcide De Gasperi wrote in 1943: "It is true that the functioning of economic democracy requires disinterest, as that of political democracy presupposes the virtue of character. The work of renewal will fail if in all categories and centers men will not rise up - we would say people today - disinterested, ready to struggle and sacrifice for the common good. [[Applause]] We have the burden and the honour of preparing tomorrow's Italy in the best way. Before I concentrate on the description of the Plan, I would like to thank you for your valuable intercourse with Parliament's institutions and social partners. The success of the Plan requires a choral effort by the various institutions involved and an open and constructive dialogue. Parliament has done a great deal - I am aware of this - to sum up the comments and requests of many institutional bodies, trade associations and experts, which has contributed to the final phase of the Plan. This work of synthesis has been accompanied by the intense collaboration between the various ministries in various ways involved in the preparation of the Plan. This work has benefited greatly from the action already taken by the previous Government. I also thank the Regions, the Provinces and the Municipalities, whose role - as we know and will see - goes far beyond the consultations. Local and regional authorities are crucial to the implementation and success of the Plan. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan has three main objectives. The first, with a short time horizon, lies in repairing the economic and social damage of the pandemic crisis. The pandemic has hit us more than our European neighbours: we have reached the number of nearly 120,000 deaths for Covid-19, plus the many never recorded; GDP has fallen by 8.9% in 2020 and employment by 2.8%, but the fall in hours worked has been 11% and this is the measure of the severity of the crisis. Young people and women have suffered a much higher than average fall in employment, particularly in the case of young people in the 15 to 24 age group. The measures to support employment and workers' incomes have greatly cushioned the social impact of the pandemic, which, however, has been felt especially among the weakest sections of the population. Between 2005 and 2019 (i.e. until the pandemic) the number of people below the absolute poverty line rose from 3.3 to 7.7 percent (i.e. we come from a history of growing absolute poverty) and then increased to almost 9.5 percent in 2020. Once again, women and young people were affected and, once again, especially in the Mezzogiorno. With a more medium- and long-term perspective, the Plan addresses some weaknesses that have plagued our economy and society for decades: persistent territorial gaps, gender inequalities, weak productivity growth and low investment in human and physical capital. Finally, the resources of the Plan help to boost a complete ecological transition. The Plan is divided into investment projects and reforms. The emphasis on reforms is crucial. These not only allow effective and rapid implementation of the same investments (without these reforms, I hope to spend all this money: in short, it is very difficult already now), but also to overcome the structural weaknesses that have, for a long time, slowed down growth and certain unsatisfactory employment levels, especially for young people and women. Reforms and investments are accompanied by quantitative targets and intermediate targets and are organised into six missions. The projects of each mission aim to address three structural nodes of our country, which constitute the horizontal objectives of the entire Plan. The aim is to bridge regional disparities between the Mezzogiorno and the Centre-North, gender inequalities and generational disparities. The resources provided through the European Union's recovery and resilience mechanism are 191 and a half billion. The Government has decided to allocate an additional €30.6 billion for the financing of a complementary National Plan to be supported by the European Facility. This Complementary Plan finances projects consistent with the PNRR strategies, which, however, exceeded the European resource ceiling. PNRR and the National Complementary Plan have been designed in an integrated way. The projects of the second, i.e. the Complementary Plan, will also have the same implementing instruments. In addition, by 2032, a further 26 billion was allocated to the realization of specific works. These include the high-speed railway line Salerno-Reggio Calabria, which will become a real high speed: therefore, no slower than the existing one. In addition, there will be the crossing of Vicenza, related to the Milan-Venice high-speed line. It also provides for the reinstatement of the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund used under the European Facility for the enhancement of projects planned for 15 and a half billion. Overall, in short, we will have about EUR 248 billion. In addition to these resources, there are also those made available by the React-EU programme, which, as provided for in EU legislation, is spent in the years 2021-2023. These are other funds for an additional 13 billion. If only the Resilience Plan and the Complementary Fund are taken into account, the share of green projects is 40% of the total; the share of digital projects is 27%. The Plan allocates 82 billion to the Mezzogiorno, out of 206 billion, for a quota therefore of about 40%. There is a strong focus on gender inclusion and support for young people. This Plan, if implemented well, has significant effects on all major economic variables. In 2026 gross domestic product will be around 3.6 percentage points higher than a baseline scenario that does not take account of the implementation of the Plan. Employment will also benefit, which will be 3,2 percentage points higher than the baseline scenario in the three-year period 2024-2026. These estimates suggest a high efficiency of public investment, but do not quantify the further impetus that may arise from the reforms foreseen in the Plan and, as regards female and youth employment, does not take into account the cross-compliance clause across the Plan. The acceleration of growth may be greater than reported in the PNRR if we succeed in implementing effective reforms aimed at improving the competitiveness of our economy. The governance of the Plan is structured on different levels. The implementation of initiatives and reforms, as well as the management of financial resources, are the responsibility of the Ministries and local authorities, who are called upon to make an extraordinary commitment in terms of organisation, programming and management. Monitoring, control, reporting and contact with the European Commission shall be entrusted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. There is also a directing booth at the Presidency of the Council with the task, among other things, of interacting with the responsible administrations in case of identified criticalities in the implementation of the Plan. I would like to stress the important role played by regions and local authorities in the implementation of the Plan. They are, in fact, responsible for the realisation of almost 90 billion investment, about 40% of the total, in particular with regard to ecological transition, inclusion, social cohesion and health. The first mission concerns digitisation, innovation, competitiveness and culture. Overall, the resources allocated to this mission are almost 50 billion, of which 41 are financed by the European Facility and 8.5 by the National Complementary Plan, equivalent to 27% of the total resources of the Plan. The main objective is to promote and support the digital transformation and innovation of the country's production system. We have chosen to invest in the dimensional growth of our companies and in high-tech chains. A special attention goes to tourism and culture, but let's take a step back from these numbers and reflect that it is easy, when talking about digital, to talk about fiber, cloud, 5G, digital identity, telemedicine and the many other technologies on which we propose to invest. In fact, we have to ask ourselves what digital transformation is essential for our country. We want our girls and boys to have access to the best educational experiences from 2027 wherever they are in Italy. [[Applause]] We want our entrepreneurs, both small and large, to launch and grow their business quickly and efficiently. We want to allow women entrepreneurs to carry out their projects; we want workers and workers to continue to acquire skills for the professions of today and tomorrow. We want the most lonely and vulnerable people to be assisted by health workers, volunteers and their family members in the best and most timely way possible. We want public administrations and their services to be accessible without obstacles, without costs and without unnecessary waste of time. In short, we want to accelerate the adoption of technology in the public, private and households to give equal opportunities to all, in particular to young people and women and, above all, to those living in less connected territories at the end of the five-year period 2021-2026. [[Applause]] For the revival of culture and tourism, two key sectors for Italy also for their identity significance, a first line of action concerns interventions to enhance historical and cultural sites, aimed at improving the attractiveness, security and accessibility of the places. The interventions are dedicated not only to the so-called great attractors, but also to the protection and enhancement of the minor sites. There are also measures for environmentally sustainable redevelopment of tourist facilities and services, which also rely on new technologies. The Plan does not overlook the fact that the strengthening of digitisation and the drive for innovation must be achieved in a synergistic manner between sectors and areas of intervention. Many of the measures I will say further about other missions, such as education and research or health, complement the government's strategy in this area. The second mission, called the Green Revolution and the ecological transition, deals with the major issues of sustainable agriculture, the circular economy, energy transition, sustainable mobility, energy efficiency of buildings, water resources and pollution. It is particularly important for Italy because - partly because of the orography, partly because of the delicacy of environmental sites but also because of the abuses it has been subjected to - it is more exposed to climate risks than in other countries. The mission improves the sustainability of the economic system and ensures a fair and inclusive transition to a zero environmental impact society. The overall budget for this mission is the largest of the six proposals (almost 70 billion, of which 60 were financed by the European Facility). There are also investments to support the ecological transition in other missions. This includes measures to improve waste management and the circular economy; strengthens separate collection infrastructure, modernises or develops new waste treatment facilities. In order to achieve progressive decarbonisation, action is envisaged to significantly increase the use of renewable energy sources, to strengthen networks and more sustainable mobility. There is a significant effort to promote the energy efficiency of public and private buildings. For the 110% superbonus, more than 18 billion of the same resources allocated by the previous government are foreseen between PNRR and the supplementary fund. There's no cut. The measure is financed until the end of 2022, with extension to June 2023 only for public homes. It is an important measure for the construction sector and for the environment. For the future, the Government undertakes to include in the draft budget law 2022 an extension of the ecobonus for 2023, taking into account the data relating to its application this year, with regard to the financial effects, the nature of the interventions carried out, the achievement of the objectives of energy saving and safety of buildings. Furthermore, in the mission, the issues of territorial security were not neglected, with measures to prevent and restore against significant hydrogeological risks, the protection of green areas and biodiversity, and those related to the elimination of pollution of water and soil and the availability of water resources. Mission 3 has a number of investments aimed at developing a network of modern, digital, sustainable and interconnected transport infrastructure. More than 31 billion euros are allocated for this purpose. Most of the resources are intended for the modernisation and upgrading of the railway network. The main high-speed and high-capacity rail axes are expected to be completed, with expenditure estimated at EUR 13.2 billion, integration between these and the regional rail network and the safety of the entire network. There are then interventions for the digitization of the system of the logistics, in order to improve the safety of bridges and viaducts and measures in order to increase competitiveness, ability and productivity of the Italian ports. Mission 4, Education and Research, has an impact on essential factors for a knowledge-based economy. In addition to their beneficial effects on growth, these factors are also crucial for inclusion and equity. The proposed projects aim to strengthen the education system throughout the education process, support research and promote its integration with the production system. The main actions concern the qualitative improvement and quantitative expansion of education services, starting with the strengthening of the provision of kindergartens, nursery schools and early childhood education and care services, the development and strengthening of vocational education, the recruitment and training of teachers, the strengthening and modernisation of school infrastructure, for example with the internal wiring of about 40,000 school buildings, the reform and extension of doctorates, the strengthening of research and the dissemination of innovative models for basic and applied research, carried out in synergy between universities and enterprises, support for innovation and technology transfer processes. Almost €32 billion is allocated to this mission, of which €1 billion is financed from national resources, through the supplementary fund, and €31 billion from the European Facility. The fifth mission is aimed at active labour and training policies, social inclusion and territorial cohesion. The funds allocated to these objectives overall exceed EUR 22 billion and a further EUR 7.3 billion of assistance will benefit from the resources of the React-EU Fund. Investment in training and retraining of workers is planned, integrated organic reform of active policies and training is planned, as well as specific measures to promote youth employment. Measures are introduced to support women's entrepreneurship and a gender equality certification system that accompanies and encourages companies to adopt appropriate policies to reduce gender gaps. [[Applause]] It was then decided to devote important resources to the social infrastructures functional to the implementation of policies in support of families, children, people with serious disabilities and the elderly not self-sufficient. [[Applause]] Alongside these measures are measures for the redevelopment of the most vulnerable urban tissues, in particular the outskirts and the inner areas of the country, and interventions to strengthen public housing and temporary and social housing. I apologize again, but these are the words that have entered into the various programmes. Mission 6 concerns health, a critical area, which has faced historic challenges over the past year. The Covid-19 pandemic confirmed the universal value of health, its nature of fundamental public good and the macro-economic importance of public health services. The reforms and investments proposed with the Plan in this area have two main objectives: to strengthen prevention and health services on the ground and to modernise and digitise the health system, in order to ensure fair access to effective care. The total budget for this mission is 18.5 billion, of which 15.6 billion is for funding under the European Facility and 2.9 billion for national resources. Particular attention has been paid in this mission to home care. The volume of home care benefits will increase significantly, up to take charge, by 2026, 10 percent of those over sixty-five years of age, especially with chronic or non-self-sufficient pathologies. The improvement of services provided on the territory is pursued through the strengthening and creation of territorial structures and garrisons (such as community homes and community hospitals), the strengthening of home care, the development of telemedicine and more effective integration with all social and health services. These measures are complemented by projects for the renewal and modernisation of existing technological and digital structures; for the completion and dissemination of the electronic health file; for better delivery and monitoring of essential levels of assistance. Important resources are also devoted to scientific research, to promoting technology transfer, to strengthening the skills and human capital of the National Health Service. In the more general social and health field, an important reform for non-self-sufficiency is introduced, with the primary objective of providing answers to the problems of the elderly. This measure addresses in a coordinated manner the different needs arising from the consequences of ageing. We want our elders to be able to maintain or regain the maximum possible autonomy, in a context as deinstitutionalised as possible. [[Applause]] After the suffering and fears of these months of pandemics, I think it's the least we can do. Let us now see the impact of the Plan on women, young people and the South. Removing obstacles to women's participation in the labour market is crucial for the recovery of our country. The Plan intervenes on the multiple dimensions of the gender gap and fits into the reform path initiated with the Family Act (this is the name of the law). The Government intends to launch the National Strategy for Gender Equality 2021-2026 by the first half of 2021. The PNRR develops the priorities of this National Strategy and articulates them in a broad programme: 4.6 billion are destined to build new kindergartens, nursery schools and early childhood education and care services; almost a billion goes to finance the extension of full time in primary schools to allow families - and mothers, in particular - to better reconcile their working and working lives. The Plan provides for €400 million to promote female entrepreneurship, and provides more than a billion for the promotion of technical and scientific skills, especially for students. Finally, thanks to the action of this Parliament, the single cheque will become the central and all-inclusive instrument for supporting families with children, in place of the fragmented measures currently in force. It is a reform that represents a change of paradigm in family policies and in support of birth. A plan that looks to the next generations must recognize our demographic reality. We are one of the countries with the lowest fertility in Europe, less than 1.3 children for each woman against almost 1.6 of the European average. To put our young people in a position to form a family we have to respond to three of their demands: a proper welfare, a safe home and a safe job. [[Applause]] In addition to the nursery plan, which I have already mentioned, young people benefit from measures for social infrastructure and housing. In a next decree-law there are other resources to help young people contract a mortgage to buy a house and in particular, in addition to significant tax concessions, to reduce the advance thanks to the introduction of a state guarantee. [[Applause]] Just under €2 billion (€1.8 billion) is increasing the competitiveness of tourism businesses, of which an important part is intended to encourage the creation of new businesses for those under thirty-five years old. We strengthen universal civil service for young people between the ages of eighteen and twenty-eight, to which we allocate 650 million for the period 2021-2023. It is a form of active citizenship which, at the same time, is an instrument of training and an engine of inclusion and social cohesion. Young people can orient themselves with respect to the development of their professional life and, at the same time, render a noble service to their community and to Italy. We also invest 600 million for young people to strengthen the dual system and make education and training systems more in line with the labour market. [[Applause]] This intervention facilitates youth employment and, at the same time, meets the needs of enterprises in terms of skills. Among other educational measures, we reaffirm the centrality of sport in the training course of boys and girls. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u8	Senator La Russa, you're a vice president, so I would ask you to keep...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u9	[[Applause. Comments]] Senator, I invite you to sit down. I didn't give her the floor. Sit down. Don't let it happen. I'll run the Chamber. Please, I'll run the Chamber. Stop. Please, President Draghi, continue. Draghi, President of the Council of Ministers. We got to sports. The Plan devotes 1 billion to sports facilities for young people, partly dedicated to new gyms and sports equipment in schools, partly to strengthening the role of sport as an instrument of social inclusion and contrast to marginalization. More generally, young people will be among the main beneficiaries of the whole plan. Investments and reforms on the ecological transition will mainly create youth employment. The creation of opportunities for young people in the world of work will also be the natural effect of the interventions of digitalization, which among other things, as I said before, will allow to complete connectivity between schools. The Plan also provides specific attention for people with disabilities, as part of interventions to reduce territorial gaps in second grade secondary school. Measures for mobility, local public transport and railway lines promote the improvement and accessibility of infrastructure and services for all citizens. There is an extraordinary investment in social infrastructure as well as community and home social and health services. The improvement of these health services on the ground promotes truly universal access to public health. Finally, it is envisaged to introduce the Disability Framework Law to simplify access to services and verification mechanisms. During the implementation of the Plan, the National Observatory on the Status of Persons with Disabilities will monitor that the proposed reforms are adequately inclusive. The growth of the Mezzogiorno is the other priority aspect across the Plan. The potential of the South in terms of development, competitiveness and employment is as large as its gap from the rest of the country. It is not a question of bell towers: if the South grows, Italy grows. More than 50% of the total investment in infrastructure - especially the High Railway Speed and the Port System - is directed to the South. The interventions on circular economy, ecological transition, sustainable mobility and protection of the territory and water resources allocate 23 billion to the Mezzogiorno. These investments are accompanied by the reform of the special economic zones and a robust financing of their infrastructure, amounting to more than 600 million. We estimate that the overall increase in the gross domestic product of the Mezzogiorno in the years 2021-2026 will be almost 1.5 times the increase in national GDP. The aim is to make the Mezzogiorno a place of attraction for private capital and innovative enterprises. As I said, the PNRR is not only an investment plan, but also and above all a reform plan. The reform of justice addresses the structural issues of the civil and criminal process. Despite progress in recent years, excessive delays remain. On average, it takes more than 500 days to conclude civil proceedings at first instance, compared with about 200 in Germany. The Plan reviews the organization of the judicial offices and creates the office of the trial, a structure in support of the magistrate in the "knowledge" phase of the case. In the field of civil justice, the procedural rite at first instance and on appeal is simplified and the telematic process is finally implemented, as requested by the Senate in recent months. The Government intends to reduce the unacceptable backwardness present in the courtrooms and create the conditions to prevent it from forming again. This is one of the most important and explicit commitments we have made to the European Union. The final objective we are aiming for is ambitious: to reduce the time frame of processes by 40% for the civil sector and at least 25% for criminals. We all want a structurally more efficient judicial system. We all want to raise the quality of the system's response. The second system reform concerns public administration, whose ability to respond efficiently and effectively affects a number of factors. Among these are: regulatory stratification, limited and unequal digitisation, low investment in the human capital of employees, lack of generational replacement and updating of skills. The reform takes place in four main areas: recruitment and competition, by rationalising recruitment procedures and planning of staff aimed at providing efficient services to businesses and citizens; good administration, through simplification of the regulatory and procedural framework; strengthening skills, through a review of career paths, continuous training of staff and professional development; digitisation, with investments in technology, the creation of units dedicated to the simplification of processes and the reorganisation of offices. In addition, by May, we will present a decree that intervenes with measures of a predominantly structural nature aimed at facilitating the implementation of the PNRR and the Complementary Plan. In addition to important simplifications in the implementation and evaluation of infrastructure investments, the rules on public procurement and concessions are simplified. The Plan also wants to commit Government and Parliament to a continuous and systematic work of repealing and amending the rules that hinder competition, create rents of position and adversely affect the well-being of citizens. These principles are essential for the success of the Plan. We must prevent the funds that we are going to invest from ending up with monopolists alone. To this end, the annual competition law, foreseen in the national law since 2009, but implemented only once, in 2017, plays a crucial role. We intend to introduce rules to facilitate business activity in strategic sectors, such as digital networks and energy. Some of these rules are already identified in the Plan, such as the completion of tendering obligations for grantor schemes or the simplification of authorisations for the construction of waste management facilities. The Government is committed to mitigating the negative effects that some of these measures could have by strengthening regulatory mechanisms and social protection. In conclusion, I should like to thank this Parliament for the political impetus that drives the whole Plan: attention to the environment, young people, women and the Mezzogiorno, which informs us of any intervention, is first and foremost the result of your action. [[Applause]] I am sure that we will be able to implement this Plan. I am sure that honesty, intelligence and the taste of the future will prevail over corruption, stupidity and established interests. [[Applause]] This certainty is not reckless optimism, but confidence in the Italians, in my people, in our ability to work together when the emergency calls us to solidarity, responsibility. It is with confidence that this appeal to the Republican spirit will be heard and will result in the construction of our future that I present this Plan today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u10	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, fellow senators, I have been participating in the work of this Parliament for eight years and never as I am today and we are taking part in the vote on a measure of such great importance for the future of this country. I spoke in this House on 31 March about the report on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan then available, the result of the work of the Count 2 Government; a report that the Senate was about to dismiss at the address of the government that you chaired to take advantage of it in view of the text that you are presenting to us today. In that speech I dealt mainly with three topics, related to research policies, appreciating some initiatives and warning his Government of the strong criticalness of others. I want here to retrace those points and those critical points in the light of the new text, so that this House can continue to draw up an open and public discussion. The first point I would like to draw your attention to is research resources. I know that scholars and researchers outside of here would have liked to see many more funds allocated to research and to see recognized the necessary investment especially in basic research, the free investment of the many small research groups and laboratories, of the scholars obsessed with a question, guided by a vision, driven by perseverance, who are left to work on their ability to transform curiosity for a fact into pieces of knowledge for everyone. See that our development is born in this way, in these small laboratories and groups of which the country is scattered, it is born in those obsessed scholars. In short, it comes from basic, humanistic and scientific research, without which no new technology can be developed and therefore no technology transfer can be possible. As a person who has always made the scientific method his compass, it is sometimes difficult to accept that the decisions taken in these classrooms are the result of many compromises, instead of being clear, clear and unique. It should therefore be stressed that the PNRR plans are important but extraordinary research investment plans. I expect the country that prepares itself - using the words of President Draghi - for modernization to recognize the need to have as the structural voice of the state budget specific funds for basic research, for studies in all humanistic, artistic and scientific fields [[Applause]] ; a budget item of an order of magnitude never seen in the past, allocated only and exclusively in a competitive and transparent way, with certain amounts and timings. We ask the ordinary in addition to the overtime. Today the resources that have been chosen to invest are not able to compensate for the deprivation suffered in the last twenty years from the sector, but they undoubtedly represent an important basis of the revival of Italian research and through research, activities by definition more oriented to the future, the economic, social and cultural revival of the country, starting from the historically most disadvantaged areas. I am also referring to your statement this morning, Mr Draghi, that 46 percent of the funds earmarked for the PNRR education and research mission will go to the South. The hope is that the trend of the last twenty years will be reversed in which systematic under-financing of public research has severely limited the potential of universities, particularly those located in disadvantaged areas of the country, to exercise the role (which would be their own) of a development engine and a social elevator. In those territories the number of students has decreased to a greater extent than the national average and certainly this decrease has not occurred in a uniform manner between the social classes. That is why the second point in my speech is the measures for young people. I appreciated the emphasis that the Plan places on the PhD, a path that must be full of research and study. With the increase of 3,600 doctorates comes the signal expected for years that has been understood as a new and numerically substantial generation of young people, out of this path of high formation, can fertilize, with the mentality and approach of the researcher, all sectors of society. However, it will be necessary to simplify the current scientific-disciplinary sectors, which very often become obsolete cages and useless compared to interdisciplinary training which is now indispensable, but where, by interdisciplinary means, there must be no renunciation of the deepening of the subjects addressed. On the other hand, I have doubts as to the extent to which it introduces substantial resources for the so-called 5,000 innovative doctorates that meet the needs of companies. I simply believe that these should not be counted as research resources, because they are outside the scope of research. Europe is asking us to invest in young people and, in addition to doctorates, an investment, at least of the same magnitude, should be directed to that important Programme for Young Researchers, as provided for in the Plan, for which resources should at least be doubled. Those for young researchers are in fact funds to turn on new research laboratories, new groups led by young scholars, who will have won the resources to study and research for at least the next five years. Free, autonomous, independent. I trust in the continued commitment of Minister Maria Cristina Mass and the Ministry of University and Research (MUR) to the introduction of rules that truly guide this programme in the right direction, that of the independence of young researchers. It would be a dramatic failure if this program were to bend to enlarge the ranks of some academic or non-academic hegemony. However, it would be wonderful - and I take advantage of this for the presence of the Minister for the South and territorial cohesion - to see here, on the Programme for Young Researchers, a strengthening and widening of the Programme, the result of the commitment in government also of the Minister to provide for two measures - which I would call special - of cohesion and inclusion, dedicated to disadvantaged areas. In particular, top-up actions that allow a substantial increase in funding won by the young scholar, even up to 30-50 percent, if the project is carried out in bodies in the South or in internal areas. This is to encourage virtuous processes of contrasting geographical inequalities, but also special measures of gender equality and support to the family in order to allow the scholar or scholar, who takes parental leave, to appoint a substitute of trust that makes him the manager for the entire period of absence, guaranteeing continuity to the projects. I now come to the third and final point. In my speech last March 31 I highlighted the risk that the proposed seven research centers and the probable 20 territorial samples of research and development mentioned in the draft of the Plan, some already identified with name and surname, would become cathedrals in the desert, new golden fiefdoms, presumably financed by cascade, without evaluation, nor measure of merit, as happens for some bodies even now, untied from the territories and the rest of the world of research. Today I would like to congratulate the MUR for having walled up against these attempts because with the National Recovery and Resilience Programme (PNRR) that presents us today has chosen to turn the page and it has been done in the best possible way and it has been done - I want to acknowledge it - until the last correcting preparatory versions that told much more and much worse. That is to say a solid principle, Mr Draghi, which I really ask you to defend in every place, and then you have declined it: the cornerstone on which to build research promotion measures is to have identified for all measures promoted selection procedures on a competitive basis. In the final plan there is still talk of research centers, territorial champions, innovation ecosystems, but it is however clarified and reiterated on several occasions a call to those open and competitive selections to determine which projects will best enhance and bring out the excellence of research already existing throughout Italy, often only unknown to politics and citizens. In addition, the coordination of the MUR measures will include the creation of a dedicated supervisory board. The effectiveness and effectiveness of the work of this body depends on the effectiveness and effectiveness of so much of the measures we read today. I am confident that in implementing these solutions we will also follow the many times reaffirmed by the Minister Mass, i.e. not bricks, but invest in banning major coordination projects, on the established themes or to be established, to which many will compete, realizing in competition with each other, with networking of structures, talents, professionalism, knowledge and skills already present and spread throughout the country. I am thinking of the entire research ecosystem, which includes more than 135 research bodies in the various sectors. Well, the PNRR that presents us today - it is clear to me - is no exception to the necessary political compromise between different needs and resources that, although never seen before, are scarce when compared with the most disparate expectations. In this sense, the external constraint, the relationship with a provider such as the European Commission, which has demanded and will demand specific costs of finalization and competition, transparency and reporting of interventions, is healthy. The trust of scholars in Italian science policies, President Draghi, has been lost in the past years, after years of assignments of funds without competitions, in the name of excellences never verified to projects, researches, centres born and imposed ope laws, without even studying and understanding if they were necessary, if that was the best way to study and do research. Trust, however, can be regained precisely with the involvement of all, with procedures as open and transparent as possible; following them, respecting them and implementing them where necessary would be as simple as revolutionary and would bring a virtuous effect of external credibility towards the Europe that invests in our revival, as well as internal by scholars towards a policy that has not listened to them for years and has ignored their needs. The effort to which we are called is to make resources... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]] Mr President, I would ask you to attach the final period of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u12	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u13	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u14	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to start again, to innovate and to grow: this National Recovery and Resilience Plan puts us in a position to do it, offers us tools to overcome the health and economic difficulties and to go further, so that the crisis caused by Covid can become that opportunity that the country has long needed, an opportunity to create a future of development and progress and to overcome many unresolved problems, from bureaucracy to low productivity, from youth unemployment to the level difference between North and South of the country. We can now do this, because thanks to Europe we have huge resources. We in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats strongly wanted a change from the previous Commission, because we realized that we were going too slowly and that the government could not put in place adequate answers to the gravity of the pandemic, nor to the spending plan for the years to come, so a plan that in the current version marks a turning point. It is a good hope that its presentation coincides with the first reopenings of these days. It is a text that is no longer the copy-paste of dated projects, but it is a real strategic vision for the country, which puts us in a position to live up to the challenges of the future. The new text is in tune with the requests that Italy Viva has been carrying out for a long time. First of all the part dedicated to the infrastructural plan: there are over 25 billions of euros previewed in order to upgrade the High speed, above all to the South, and to construct intermodal networks of connection that involve also the peripheral areas. We are convinced that massive investments in public infrastructure are a breath of oxygen in favour of economic recovery. Connecting rural areas to urban areas, linking some areas that are still too isolated more quickly is not only an act of equity, but also a practical way to push the economy, also thanks to a strong intervention of digitalization on railway networks, the logistic chain of transfer of goods and on port systems, all very appropriate choices, because we cannot accept that the future of many of our territories is prevented by the number of rails that are still missing today. Also because transferring traffic from road vehicles to rail has a further implication, i.e. significantly limiting greenhouse gas emissions. This, however, means pursuing another of the important objectives that we intend to achieve, namely the reduction of climate warming. We also appreciate the whole package on reconciling family and career life and supporting equal opportunities and parenting. It is good to envisage the creation of more than 220,000 new nursery places and more than 1,000 full-time school canteens, because they are a boost to female employment. Women's work, if it were equal to men's, would increase our gross domestic product by 88 billion euros. The issue of equal opportunities has to do with the progress of society as a whole, and this PNRR takes due account of this, starting with the implementation of the Family Act and the need to create opportunities for young people. This is good because the task of politics today cannot be allocated resources for assistanceism, instead having to intervene on training so that it becomes more and more of excellence and that there are sufficient jobs capable of guaranteeing the personal realization of young people within their country, without being forced to go elsewhere. We must also try to make our country take giant steps in the field of connectivity, in an attempt to recover the accumulated delays and to succeed in not losing the challenge of that innovation economy, destined to mark the post-pandemic recovery. For this reason, investments dedicated to the world of knowledge, digitisation, training and research are strategic. Aiming more than 20% of the total resources on these areas means promoting the economic growth of the country, first of all through the modernisation of public administration, with the aim of making it more competent, simple, connected, at the service of citizens and able to evolve at its best. At the same time, it also means providing for an ambitious allocation through which to modernise production industries and the world of tourism and culture. Investment in research is also strategic, starting from the medical and health field. The Covid emergency has shown us how urgent and profitable it is to invest in research, telemedicine and modernisation of hospital facilities. The pandemic has taught us above all that allocating resources for health is not a cost, but an investment that benefits the country's own economy. It would therefore certainly be useful to do everything possible to further increase the budget for health and research. Meanwhile we welcome the increase in the number of scholarships for PhD students and graduate students, as well as the strengthening of dual and continuous training, because they are all measures that aim to expand the competences of human capital, which is the most important resource in the civilization of knowledge. We are proud that this PNRR is a real green revolution, as it first allocates tens of billions of euros for interventions against hydrogeological failure and for the protection and enhancement of the territory: all interventions that make the ecological turning point become an extraordinary engine of growth and well-being. In essence, these are a series of measures aimed at the economic and social progress of the country. Simple, inclusive and green: this is the Italy of the future that we can achieve with the resources of this National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which creates the basis for tomorrow and helps the country to recover and build a dynamic Italy that, with a blow of kidneys, brings us into a digital, ecological and prosperous future; an Italy, Mr President, in which everyone can have a chance again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u15	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u16	Illustrious Presidents, kind colleagues, with respect to the Government Count the corpus of the PNRR has remained substantially unchanged and this will condition and undue the Italians for almost forty years. In the PNRR, Parliament had residual powers and was mentioned only once within it. We of Brothers of Italy believe that the collaboration between Government and Parliament is fundamental, but, like the previous Government, we do not respect the space that would be reserved for political forces. Therefore, a democratic balance should be restored as soon as possible, giving voice to the people. We have been allowed by Europe, but the representatives of the people have not even had time to discuss its content fully. No one is aware of the impact this programme will have on future generations. You can't go wrong anymore. The funds allocated to the South must be invested with knowledge of the facts. In the South we must restore dignity to people, to teachers, to families, to births that have always been a strength but that over the years, due to the economic recession, has gone away getting worse, especially for the weakest. We are witnessing the implementation of some measures, for which, on the contrary, we start from the arrival rather than from the beginning. I am referring here to the school and the recruitment plan for teachers. This is a unique moment to be able to achieve what has been said in the school for years: transforming the Chairs of Law into Chairs of fact; the Chairs of fact into Chairs of Law; the Chairs as a derogation into Chairs of Law. But let us come to the point that primarily concerns women, our teachers, the world of school. Where are the equal opportunities so praised by the PNRR and the Government of National Unity? In this way, a whole series of rights guaranteed as well as at national level also to the European one (such as the rights to have a family, a fair wage, a permanent residence, and the right to a physical integrity) are all put at risk in the continuation of years of out-of-office service; statutory years of obligation. In fact, the service they provided was largely duplicated, tripled, quadrupled. If we continue on this trail, where will we go? Perhaps it is more useful to ensure the recklessness of the quarrel? Who could benefit from this? Or are we already on the election campaign, so 10,000-12,000 teachers are less attractive than 68,000 or 500,000? From 2008 to the present, we have seen a gradual reduction in the rights of the out-of-office employee and the pandemic situation has aggravated its effects. We must act now, not tomorrow. President Draghi, Ministers (I addressed the Ministers of Orlando, Bianchi and Brunetta, but none of the three are present), ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of simplification. Further and obvious criticalities would be based in the methods of processing the retirement practices of the teaching staff. The flow of information, which should take place between SIDI (the MIUR computerised system) and the Inps according to a priority order and taking into account the effective availability of places for mobility, takes place not respecting a logical and consequential chronology, so that the Inps should be able to communicate to the MIUR the data relating to the retirements of the teaching staff in advance of the expiry of the submission of applications for mobility and, consequently, before the SIDI is closed. This would allow teachers to become aware in good time of the places actually available for mobility. This is not the case, as retirement practices are to be worked after applications are submitted on the move. We will still have to simplify, but this government prefers not to deal with this issue. How can this reform of epochal importance be implemented if there is little attention to these issues? Therefore, it would seem that nothing has changed compared to the Count Government. To this end, the construction of school canteens in the South was not taken into account in order to guarantee and ensure equal opportunities. To provide a service to the family, it is not just kindergartens. School canteens would allow full time at school, assisted study, personalized after-school teaching, increased female employment, better organization of family work times. As far as infrastructure is concerned, the bridge over the Strait has been completely forgotten. I'd suggest a name: Penelope. Penelope weaves and unravels the canvas, just as it was for the bridge over the Strait. The woven canvas was 3,300 metres, but the Monti Government has unpacked the canvas. It could now be corrected and this definitive weaving could be allowed again. So, the Penelope Strait Bridge is busy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u18	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Government, colleagues and colleagues, someone said that the excellent is an enemy of good and that is what I have been repeating for a few hours after reading the latest draft of the PNRR. Mr President, there is no bell tower, no interest in bias or spoiled gaze as I am going to say. My judgment, in fact, arises from a challenging confrontation, strengthened by the considerations emerged with the hearing of more than 300 subjects who otherwise operate in the country. I wanted to make a strong contribution to these players in the Commission in the various stages accompanying the drafting of this PNRR, considered as an opportunity, perhaps the only one, to start a re-starting path that allows us to overcome ancient fragility that the pandemic has highlighted, but also new weaknesses. Having said that, I am aware that it is a significant drop point to read black on blank on page 11 of this document that about 40% of the territorializable resources of the Plan are destined to the Mezzogiorno, thus "shrinking" the percentage of 34% linked to the mere resident population. However, I do not think it is enough because the parameters adopted by the EU to give us 25% of the total budget, as everyone knows, were and remain three: resident population, per capita GDP and employment rate. On these three parameters the South, with its historical criticalities, unfortunately drew in negative the balance of the valuation, making us assign this quota so important. That of 40% is not, therefore, a victory, let alone a goal; if anything, it is the incipit - for this reason I sincerely thank Minister Carfagna - of a new and rediscovered awareness in having to proceed to a real reversal of course in order to put the South back not only in connection with the North, but with the whole Old Continent. Mr President, this is why it is not a victory and not even a goal because personally the problem is reflected in the difficulty or, almost, in the impossibility of seeing that commitment declined even in the next 300 pages, starting precisely from the mission that territorially is the most significant, that is, that of infrastructure. Well, in this mission, the High Speed Mission for the South is allocated a budget equal to half of the funds allocated to the North, with the radical exclusion, among other things, of the Adriatic backbone from this growth accelerator. I knew from the outset - and I said so in all the sauces in this House - that the concept of strict cantierability that the European Union introduced to us risked turning the Mezzogiorno into a kind of mockery, but obviously it was not enough. It is not enough, Mr President, for the PNRR upgrade to the High Speed in the Mezzogiorno to translate into the planned 100 kilometers per hour for Palermo-Catania or, again, in the three hours necessary to cover the 300 kilometers that separate Naples and Taranto. That's the distance. It will take three hours to travel 300 kilometers. Mr President, as you can see, this is not a matter of bell tower because the numbers are objective elements and make it clear that the wording on investment 1.2, i.e. - I quote - high-speed lines in the North linking Europe, emphasizes a sidereal distance and therefore perhaps unbridgeable from the South. The figures for the first one indicate an appropriation of 8.57 billion, while for the South of 4.64 billion. Numbers, where it has been possible to detect them, which cannot fail to arouse the concerns of an entire Mezzogiorno which looks at this passage as a historic occasion: 550 mayors have appealed to us. [[Applause]] If, then, we add to these figures some folds - pass me the term - then the concern to live up to this responsibility and expectations risks falling into resignation. I am referring specifically to investment 1.6 in favour of regional railway lines, particularly in the Mezzogiorno, but then go to page 212 and read, from the same budget, the financing of the canavesana line, the Turin-Ceres railway, the Sansepolcro-Terni: routes that no one can ever convince me belong to that South Italy that continues to suffer more than other delays and deficits of infrastructure and services. Similarly, no one can ever convince me of the goodness of a choice - also this policy - confirmed in this Plan, as in the previous one, that in the framework of the ports delivery only to Genoa and Trieste the centrality of robust and strategic investments, discriminating the harbour system of South Italy, that instead should see us all together in the geostrategic investment that the platform of the triangle Naples-Taranto-Gioia Tauro naturally delivers us, and delivery to the Country, not to the Mezzogiorno. [[Applause.]] So let me be clear, President - and I want to repeat this again - my demands are not bell tower claims, but the call to a political duty to which we must all feel committed, if we really want to "sew" a country folded in half. To be at another obvious example, I personally believe that high speed must be a universal right, both in the South and in the North; that reaching Rome from Lecce must have the same value, therefore the same accessibility, as doing it from Florence or Milan. It is no longer tolerable to have two countries in one. [[Applause.]] That is why, President, in this place, with the responsibility that I feel in continuing to support this Government in significant steps, I have a duty to ask you without filters a clear commitment to open a set of parachutes for our Mezzogiorno right now. I will repeat this until I risk looking obsessive: the requirement of cantierability cannot be the alibi to betray a commitment that Europe has also asked us to do. [[Applause]] Another great concern assails me: if the identification of the investments for the infrastructures has been strongly conditioned by the criterion of the immediate cantierabilità, so the first ones will continue to be first, I would not want, in a perverse logic of prize to those who are more ready, to those who are more equipped, to those who have more organization, also the resources destined to the other missions and the other strategic objectives are absorbed - let's say - with greater speed and consistency from the larger and more equipped administrations. Here there is a whole theme that invests, for example, the intermediate cities, which are an important piece of the country, that cannot remain in a sort of limbo, narrow between the metropolitan cities and the internal areas. The test of the nine will have it with the ban on the kindergartens nest: it expires on 21 May without it has been indicated any quota reserved to the South, where there is the greater deficiency, presenting, on the contrary, modalities that, in my opinion, favor those who are later, those who have a more structured administrative organization. That is why, then, Mr President, I would like to ask you for some commitments, and I shall conclude. The first is to reprogram immediately the resources deriving from the replacement of the financing of the infrastructural works with the funds referred to in the PNRR according to the respect of the original territorial constraint or at least with the aim to continue to reduce the infrastructural imbalances between the various areas of the Country. An example of all, the Napoli-Bari and the financing of the European Investment Bank (EIB) which must be kept in its original destination. [[Applause.]] I would ask you again, Mr President, to include within the next three months the projects set out in the Plan in terms of the criteria of time and cantierability, such as the extension of high speed throughout the Adriatic ridge, the programming of the Development and Cohesion Fund and its funding lines, and to review immediately the programme contract with RFI for the part of investments, in order to bring the High Speed across the country into line. Believe me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. It is a matter of civilization and common sense. I trust you and Minister Carfagna, in whom I place great esteem, but I will never stop fighting this battle. I owe it to my land, and I owe it a little to my children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u19	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if I were to list the reasons why I fully appreciate the PNRR you have presented, the four minutes I have would not be enough. Then I will speak not of the body of the Plan, but of its soul, the reforms, on which it said important words. A few days ago, with a small group of 15, I was talking about the PNRR and explaining to them that this is a plan that Europe and Italy are making for them. One of them asked me, "Comments? Well, I understand. But what does the reforms have to do with it? I have explained myself this way and I do not know if you, Mr President, will agree. Firstly, the reforms are those repairs to the engine of the Italian economy and society, necessary to transform European money into growth, work and reduction of inequality and imbalances. Secondly, if those repairs are not done, European money will not come. Thirdly, even without European money, those reforms should actually be done if we are to move forward as a country. The reforms in Italy must make them Italians and there is no shortcut: the Government, Parliament, citizens and businesses. However, every reform is uncomfortable, it costs sacrifices to someone, especially those linked to competition and costs votes. It takes a push. It is not enough to believe, if one believes, that the future will be better for all - more growth and more equity - once reforms are made, but a boost is needed. It can come from within, or the slow evolution of political, economic and civil mentality and culture, or it can come from outside, in particular from Europe and the markets. Italy, if we look back, has usually made reforms in connection with Europe: in 1996-1997 with a big mirage, namely the entry into the euro, and in 2011-2012 with a great pressure from Europe and the markets. For the past few years, I have been referring to before the pandemic, but Europe has been accommodating in the control of the public finances of the countries and in monetary policy. In Europe, not only in Italy, reforms have been firm for some years, they have not been done and counter-reforms have begun. We have also witnessed this in this House in recent years. That is, compared to a modern social market economy, steps have been taken backwards and today, even under the impact of the pandemic - I have almost concluded, Madam President - we are increasingly hiding in the concepts of state daddy and Europa mom. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in my view, you have done very well to make a distinction between deficits and debts. However, I would like to recommend them, since at the moment we must avoid backward thinking and culture and, if possible, move forward... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u21	Thank you, Senator Monti. You can hand over the text of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u22	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u23	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you, Mr Draghi, have just said that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is only a very important part of a broader and ambitious strategy for modernising our country, which will be complete, if we can combine design capacity and concreteness with imagination and creativity. I would add that it will be complete, if we will also be able to give back with generosity and sense of belonging to the Italian community what we have taken away unduly from those who had no fault, if not to have been born in an unfortunate period. We should in some way favour, without a strong competition that does not help, the hybridization between North and South - they are two clearly different cultures - between urban areas and internal areas, between scientific skills and artistic and literary skills, between young and less young and - I say also - between those who have more merits, because with effort and sacrifices he managed to gain skills, perhaps not so specialist, and those who have more vertical and specialist skills, but less merits, because he has found himself in a condition more favorable to the tapes of departure, belonging to families definitely better from an economic and cultural point of view. In short, Mr President, we must start again to tell some history of ransom with great pride, that Italian pride that has made our country great, especially if we think of the twenty years of the great economic growth, that from the fifties to 1973. I say this because we must give many those chances that they no longer have: I am referring to those people who, without perhaps having any desire to leave their land of origin, had to move from the South to the North and in some cases had to leave Italy and go abroad. I would like to make a second quick comment on measures to remove restrictions on competition in order to promote economic growth and equity. Anything that favors competitive play can only be welcomed. What is quite different, however, President Draghi, is the declination of these measures on other sectors, those that I consider to be a little less strategic, even if they are very important for the GDP of our country. Ports, logistics, energy and digital networks are strategic - yes - and there is absolutely no need to prevent measures that favour competition and therefore remove those abuses of dominant positions. However, on areas such as tourism and trade, for example, which have been deeply affected by this pandemic - but, let me say, they were sectors that did not express their potential even before the pandemic - I think there is absolutely a need to reflect, because technologies, digitisation and everything we are observing will require a profound restructuring and, as you say, also the set-up of supply chains. I liked this term very much instead of that of companies, because only through the creation of supply chains and that buffer that constitutes for the enterprises that are a little smaller the ecosystem of protection, we can express... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u24	Senator, if you think so, may deliver the full text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u25	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u26	A few minutes of intervention, kind President Draghi, who to me are an honor and a possibility more unique than rare. I have always followed you because those who, like you, have held institutional roles of great importance for personal merits and labors have a vision that is certainly deeper and free from the impoverishment of simple political logic. I will quote four of his statements that seem to have been issued recently, so much are current with respect to the context that we are unfortunately living and that instead are ten years old and painfully testify to the immobilism that surrounds Italy. The first statement is in an interview with the 2012 Wall Street Journal, in which it states that in our institutional establishment the levels of debt-to-GDP ratio are excessive. There are no alternatives to fiscal consolidation, which we must not deny have a recessive effect in the short term, but in the future, through the so-called trust channel, economic growth will be reactivated. And again: A good austerity is when taxes are reduced, and public spending focuses on infrastructure and other investments. The second concerns a letter from the ECB to the Italian Government in 2011: A comprehensive, radical and credible reform strategy, including full liberalisation of local public services and professional services, is needed. The third statement is among the Final Considerations as Governor of the Bank of Italy of 2011: Italy lags behind in its infrastructure allocation compared to other major European countries, albeit with public expenditure which has been higher in relation to GDP since the 1980s. The last statement is also contained in the Final Considerations by Governor of the Bank of Italy: The lack of women's participation in the labour market is a crucial factor in the weakness of the labour market system. And again: The time of care of the house and the family for women remains much longer in Italy than in other countries. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if they have asked for your authoritative help in order to keep the bar straight - as they say from my side - of a drifting Italy, it seems to me now more than obvious. This Italy, Mr President, has been firm for a long time and needs everything and more; and the PNRR instrument can be recognized as a flywheel of recovery and not just of further indebtedness. But it is good to remind us, with regard to the reforms that are now necessary to activate the complex PNRR system, that the play of the political diatribe clearing house must not be rekindled at all. Reforms - and I quote those that are most adhered to, i.e. public administration, taxation, justice, simplified procedure for public works - must not be on the endless tables of the Commissions, with a number of priority, admissible, super-marked amendments, without technical report, text 2, text 3, text 4 and so on. The principle of sharing with Parliament, a principle of democratic representativeness, must certainly not be lost, but in this difficult situation it would be important to introduce a more innovative, simpler and streamlined approach to legislative methodology. Making reforms at the same time as we have been used to for decades is now unthinkable. The leap of pride, of genuine and convinced recovery, to which the Italians want to firmly believe, must find in this Parliament and in this Government a prince ally, a pillar on which to rest safely the choices that will be made. In default, the process of transformation required of us from several parts and always postponed would stop. A country like ours, exhausted, wouldn't hold up anymore. His words to Europe a few days ago - I guarantee - echo in the minds of all of us: there is all his authoritative firmness, but also his concern, to which I humbly associate my staff as a woman, mother and also as a senator of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group. I would like to quote another phrase from the Rimini 2020 meeting: depriving a young man of the future is one of the most serious forms of inequality. This is the real challenge we must not lose. We have the strength, we have the tools, we have the courage and extraordinary ability to reinvent ourselves even after we have fallen; we make good use of these precious abilities and opportunities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u27	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u28	Mr President, illustrious members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with great interest I have listened to President Draghi's communications on a Plan - the one we are discussing today - which is also the result of the previous Conte government's commitment, thanks to which Italy is the first to benefit in absolute value - we must remember - from the funds of the Next Generation EU programme. Today, thanks to you, we must implement our projects in order to relaunch Italy. The PNRR must be the instrument through which inequalities, poverty and social exclusion are reduced, all factors, unfortunately, that are endemic in our society. It must be the instrument that will allow the country to be accompanied in that plan of structural reforms that we have been waiting for for some time. More rights for young people and those living in the most disadvantaged areas of the country. With regard to the South, the 40% share of resources in the PNRR, which amounts to around 83 billion for the South, is certainly a first step. I share the fact that, as you said, the React EU has been excluded from this figure, an autonomous instrument which allocates 8.4 billion to the South, as well as the Development and Cohesion Fund, which together do not help to determine that 40%. But more needs to be done. Today 500 mayors of the South have demanded equalization. I want, as a woman in the South, a South connected with the rest of the country, which attracts investments, which enhances the beauties of our territory and our seas, providing waste water purification plants. I would like to see an intensification of transport. The South has a number of potentials: let us exploit them and seize this opportunity, overcome the differences, involve all the actors in society and provide for this revival. I trust that you will be sensitive to the particular attention paid to women and to women's entrepreneurship, ensuring greater investment, but also greater services, precisely because women must not be faced with the choice of work or family. As far as public administration is concerned, we have always heard of the ageing of public administration. I want to remind you that I am a prison director and the last contest - I repeat to myself - was completed in 1997. You spoke of young people, but I see that in the Brunetta reform we are still talking about pre-selections for titles and experience, but will these young people have the opportunity to work? We reserve the titles and experience to those competitions where certain competences are required. Then we talk about justice and the need to speed up processes, precisely so that Italy becomes more competitive even from an economic point of view and can attract European investors. The office for the trial and the recruitment program is fine, and I hope, even here, for young people. It is also right to implement the ordinary judiciary, precisely because without human resources we are not going anywhere. I hope that there will be the digitalisation and innovation expected, which, in the simplest way, can be achieved by young people, who in this way will make life even easier for citizens. I have heard very enthusiastically about the electronic file, already provided for in some regulations. I hope that it can be extended to all sectors, to ASLs and hospitals, so that the health protection of each individual is not just something random, but can become a concrete issue, so that, at any time, using the electronic file, one can understand the patient's situation. I'm also very glad you mentioned sports... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u29	Thank you, Senator. He may deliver the text of his statement to the effect that it is annexed to the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u30	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u31	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the Ministers. My dear colleague, Mr Stefano, I do not want to argue with you, nor with other colleagues, but, apart from formal errors (which I share), it is also necessary for the administrators of the South to learn how to use resources. [[Applause]] Just read the report of the Court of Auditors of 2019. The use of these resources will be a gigantic effort and one of the shortcomings of the South lies in not being able to use the resources; the Court of Auditors says, I do not say this out of controversy, which I do not have. Mr President, after so much talk and so much praise the potential of women's contribution, I would have expected something more. I hope three things: firstly, that the issue of women is an integral part of the Youth Guarantee Programme, because there are also "young people," with the mortgage, the home and everything else; secondly, that women are also present in the issues relating to the 2030 South Plan, where the situation is even more dramatic from this point of view; and finally, that perhaps we can still intervene with the supplementary programme. Mr President, there are those who would demand money without reforms and those who, like me, think that reforms would be necessary even without money, even if there weren't, and for a long time, a long time. Finally, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have spoken a lot about justice, health, attention to the disabled, and I am very pleased that Mrs Cartabia is here with you today. Do you know this gentleman? (Senator Bonino shows an image.) Today there was a trial in Arezzo that has of the grotesque. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator, but you're out of time. BONINO (Misto-+Eu-Az). There's one more minute left. Walter De Benedetto has rheumatoid arthritis; the only thing that gives him relief is cannabinoids, which are legal in our country. He has a recipe, but you can make rag paper, because the cannabinoids aren't there. We produce too few and import them from Holland with the dropper, so we submit "the Walters" of our country to useless and inhuman torture. Today he was acquitted, but his friend who helped him cultivate was instead blamed. He understands the mobilization of the police, judges, lawyers, all the ambaradan possible and imaginable for a grotesque trial. Poor guy, he can't even move and, in order not to yell at the pain, he needs cannabinoids, which I didn't find either. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u32	I'm very sorry, but the time at your disposal is really over.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u33	Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u34	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council Draghi, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are debating today is so important that it makes it unnecessary to stress it; on the other hand, however, it is probably not going to be enough, in the light of the efforts that the Italians will be asking for in the coming years to repay the debt. The President-in-Office of the Council is right when he says that this Plan contains the lives of Italians, our own, but above all those of young people, women and the citizens who will come; there are in it the feelings of our national community, which no number or table can ever represent. Unfortunately, our country has been suffering since before the outbreak, as is apparent from the data also mentioned by the President of the Council. Now is the time to recognise the potential, to seize the opportunities linked to developments in different sectors, especially in the digital world. The President-in-Office of the Council said that technology is a way of guaranteeing fair opportunities for all and it is essential to adopt it by making the best use of it at all levels. The management and processing of big data - just to give an example - is one of the tools needed to deal with any event and the pandemic, unfortunately, has taught us this. I was pleased to read about South Italy in the pages of the Plan. 40% of the resources are allocated to the redevelopment and re-starting of the regions of the South. The pillar of social inclusion must be a real mission, to use all our energies, will and political vision. Let us start again, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but with a very clear fundamental concept: if the South wins, the whole of Italy wins. It is a limit to continue to think of the regions of the Mezzogiorno as a problem to be dealt with. The South is agriculture, historical and cultural heritage, tourism, environmental sustainability. The South is in the eyes that transmit tenacity and in the broad and strong shoulders of the many women and men who do not give up. The South, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is a resource to be exploited and promoted to the best of our capabilities, and that is the paradigm that we should adopt. We must reverse the trend for which we must leave the regions of the Mezzogiorno in order to find employment opportunities. The time to change the paradigm of action is now. We must try to hold young people back by creating development. It is therefore necessary to invest in infrastructure, links for people and trade in goods. In this regard, the completion of the A2 motorway and the extension of the High Speed Salerno-Reggio Calabria - already mentioned by my colleagues - are strategic works whose first lots are included in the PNRR. Citizens expect high speed across the Salerno-Reggio Calabria line. I therefore hope to accelerate the whole project, because it is proved by numbers that where the high speed passes there is a physiological growth of GDP. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is time to unite Italy. By ensuring speedy transport, it would make it easier to strengthen strategic sectors, including agriculture. We must put in place concrete actions, understand that recovery and resilience are linked to European money. In order to realise the restart, it is essential to defend and protect our strategic sectors. I am thinking of Made in Italy, seriously threatened by systems like the nouri-score. The PNRR is just one of the many opportunities that will come in the near future. But be careful: we do not have time, and we remember that today, with the current procedures, infrastructure works with a cost of more than 100 million have a time of realization of approximately sixteen years; in doing so we will manage to spend only 48 percent of the resources of the PNRR. In light of this, I would ask you for a path of sburocratization, a real simplification. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Recovery and Resilience Plan, designed to heal the deep wounds inflicted by the pandemic tsunami, is an integrated programme of interventions to improve the current socio-economic framework, investing in structural reforms and a clear and timely project for the future. Now it will be necessary to give him a vibrant heart, to inject lifeblood into the nerve nodes: health, environment, culture, solidarity, security of the territory, young people, women and the South. Now we have to implement it, enhancing all the scientific, technical and professional skills of our country. It is also the epochal moment of courageously rethinking economic development, passing from obsolete models dominated by a distorted concept of GDP to an eco-sustainable future. Bob Kennedy over half a century ago said that GDP measures everything except what makes life truly worth living. I think the time has come to implement a change of socio-economic paradigm and set out on the path of authentic progress, guaranteeing to every single Italian that the investments for recovery and resilience, which we are going to achieve, will tend to the quality of life, intergenerational social equity and eco-sustainability. I am thinking of the need to give back hope to young people, further reduced by the pandemic; to facilitate women's work, shattered by the pandemic crisis; to guarantee the right of all - including our brothers and sisters not yet existing - to enjoy a beautiful and livable environment. In this plan, as regards the protection of the territory, I stress the transposition of the observations made by the Senate to the previous one, both on the need to create an efficient governance for the ecological transition, and on the system of knowledge and environmental protection. The new investments planned for monitoring and forecasting the effects of climate change, the renaturalisation of Po areas, the reclamation of polluted orphan sites, the restoration and protection of seabeds and marine habitats, the digitisation of natural parks are very valuable. However, I must note that the Senate's opinion on the need to increase funding for the prevention of natural risks has been disregarded; indeed, in contrast to the hydrogeological failure there is a reduction: only 2.5 billion will be invested, the equivalent of the damage expected in a single year. By doing so, we will accumulate environmental debt and tragedies. [[Applause]] Reducing, mitigating and preventing the high natural risks of a geologically fragile country is not an unnecessary burden; 22 million Italians live in areas with high seismic risk and 8 million are exposed to hydrogeological risk. The last three post-sysm reconstructions cost 40 billion, the equivalent of the seismic adjustment of all Italian public buildings. Reconstruction costs ten times more than prevention, as well as social disasters. The hydrogeological failure causes damage on average for 2.5 billion a year; preventing it costs five times less and avoiding catastrophes. I hope that in the very near future the Gordian node of the security of the territory can be dissolved, a foundation for the tranquility of a people and for the sustainable and sustainable development of the nation. In conclusion, I think that even the concept of protection, protection and protection of the environment must now be surpassed. We must fly to the future, reclaiming, renaturalizing and improving the environment and the landscape. With the National Recovery and Resilience Plan we must open the door to the future, making life truly worth living. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u37	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u38	Mr President, the most interesting part of this Plan is in the premise, which seems to be written by someone else, because we start by saying that the pandemic has caught our country in a phase of economic and social fragility, with a drop in investment that has lasted for decades, as if the letters arrived from Brussels had not been signed by President Draghi and written by the current Minister Franco; As if the Monti cure had not been prescribed for us, because it was not wanted. That is why our country has arrived at a stage of so great fragility to face the pandemic. But the soul of this Plan should be precisely tax reform, which is the key. You write that it is the one on which the revival of our country rests, but there are only a few lines dedicated to it in the text, because in fact you can do nothing and President Draghi himself told the House: a strong political will would need. Yet, I would have liked to know if the bill of delegation will start from the intentions of the expert Brunetta or the competent Garavaglia, who had coverage for 270 billion for flat tax or with the maximization of the progressiveness required by her. Would it be interesting for Parliament to know where you want to go to cut, whether direct or indirect taxes, or do you really think that you want us to believe that you want to fight tax evasion with Berlusconi, with a convicted tax fraud? It'd be funny if there wasn't something to cry about. Another issue I want to address is the one in the South, because you gloatly said that you have allocated 40% of the resources to the South. Well, there are few of them and the government of the best should have observed the criteria of the European Union, which say much more, namely that, if those criteria had been met only for the North, our country would have taken 70% less. It is clear that the 34 percent clause is now old and obsolete, it is a criterion that no longer takes into account the conditions of real degradation that exist in the South. As long as you go through Jonica and you still want to cross the Napoli-Bari, which was already fully funded, between national funds and European funds. I would like to know if you are replacing the funds once again for the South, because that is what we are talking about. You have already started with agriculture, snooping part of the European funds. I would also like to talk to you about the boldness this Government should have, because the great opportunity of European funds could solve the great issue of the former Ilva. We have the great Ministry of the ecological transition, but we have a Health Minister who is not concerned with the health of that territory; we have a Minister who is already talking about compromises. I want to know how many deaths are the reasoned risk to keep the steel mill still; how many paediatric cancer patients are still the reasoned risk for Taranto, who is still moving in a bubble with criminal impunity. These are the answers that you should finally give to the country and not the lectures with the historical excursus, which goes from 1950 to 1973, forgetting that after arrived the Berlusconi, the Craxi, the D'Alema and the Prodi and in the ruling class, dear President Draghi, of those years in which the investments decreased, there was just her. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u40	Mr President, I see that in essence this country remains the same, does not take that step forward that it should take and is still firm in the rhetoric of justice, of which someone is unable to get rid of. This is why in recent days the Government has had to work in a non-tribal way and reassure Europe on the so-called horizontal or context reforms, of which justice is a central point. Not surprisingly, we have been stuck all these years because we have not been able to make those reforms on justice. I say this because the matter of justice has become central because we are a country that spends more than all others on the maintenance of the accusation and where - according to the report of the President of the Court of Cassation - 50% of the trials that arrive to debate are resolved in acquiescences (even 70% in the case of criminal decree). There are therefore obvious anomalies. Here is the Minister of Justice, whom I also thank for the beautiful speech he gave on Sunday in his interview with the press, citing the particular moment we are living. If not now, when are we going to reform? With what I said earlier I wanted to mean that this country must remedy the excessive length of trials (eight years for the civil trial and four years for the criminal trial). Furthermore, the European Commission has not asked us what it should have asked us, namely a Commission of Inquiry into the political use of justice in this country. [[Applause]] We would have gladly accepted such a proposal that Europe could rightly have imposed on us. I now come to another purely local issue, coming from Friuli-Venezia Giulia, a Region with a special statute of the North-East of Italy. I have seen that the port of Trieste is inserted in the centrality of the development of the portualità (I refer to Trieste and Genoa and to the relationship between North and South of the Country). There is, however, a fundamental problem. If Christ stopped in Eboli, in the case of the High Railway Speed instead stopped in Bologna, because from there he does not go any further. [[Applause]] Dear President-in-Office of the Council, let us start by thinking that this is a central problem. We need to get those territories closer. I also address the friends of Veneto, to whom I say that the special autonomy differentiated that they are rightly asking can take place not in contradiction, but in cooperation with a neighbouring region and contermines like Friuli-Venezia Giulia, that it will live not only of port, but also of the ability to be connected with the rest of Europe. The countries of Visegrád are uniting in high speed, while we remain outside. Watch out for this... [[The Microphone is automatically turned off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u41	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u42	Madam President, senators and senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today is a very important day for Italy because we are discussing the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is an instrument that will allow our country to get out of the sandbanks of an unprecedented economic crisis following the pandemic and will allow us to overcome the distortions and gaps of our system that we have been dragging behind for decades. It is an important day and we would have liked very much that to illustrate the PNRR had been Giuseppe Conte, because the birth of the National Plan is ascribed to him and to the majority that supported him throughout 2020 and in which the Movimento 5 Stars played a decisive role. Everything was born from the letter written by Count on March 25, 2020, able to gather around himself and Italy the Governments of 8 other countries and to produce a upheaval in European austerity policies, which you well know, President Draghi. In March 2020 Europe still thought it could counter the dramatic consequences of the pandemic by using MES or EIB. Colleagues, I am really smiling about not crying when I think about who, in this House, used to sell a short-sighted instrument for salvation and in fact condemned as ineffective by the history of recent financial crises. [[Applause]] In that letter Conte and the other eight European leaders called for more resources financed by the common European debt. Since 25 March, a debate has started in Europe which, at the end of July 2020, has finally led to the emergence of the 750 billion recovery fund. The National Plan, therefore, is a result achieved by the Government Count 2, confirmed by the current Executive at 100% in its missions and structure. Other than discontinuity; among other things, it could not have been otherwise. The Plan and the effort made by the Government Count 2 to make it digest to the so-called frugal countries will also be appreciated for their political, cultural and economic heritage, because there is no doubt that, even today, the path to the change of the European Union is far from complete. However, it is also indisputable that something epochal and irreversible has happened: the issuance of common debt securities, the suspension of the Stability Pact, the expansionary monetary stimulus of the ECB are a real revolution. Around these changes, a debate is developing in Europe, which rightly calls for the pandemic to expand its post of change. In my opinion, if economists such as Blanchard and Pisani-Ferry come back these days to demand the dismantling of anachronistic parameters and without any scientific basis, such as 3% of the deficit-GDP ratio or 60% of the debt-Pil ratio, if all this is happening, it means that we of the Movimento 5 Stars have made the soil of change fertile and its fruits will sprout and grow more and more, because these ideas will walk on our legs. [[Applause]] We would have liked to discuss and analyze the National Plan in more appropriate times, while realizing the vastness and complexity of the operation. For this reason, we have asked and will expect to be constantly informed of the progress of the projects and of the achievement of the objectives. The responsibility of these tight times is ascribed to the unscrupulous political operations carried out by the representative Matteo Renzi and the governmental crisis that he triggered. He said he wanted the ESM at all costs and now it is no longer necessary; he said he wanted more time to examine and write the National Plan and, instead, he got the opposite result: really congratulations! I would add that in this National Recovery and Resilience Plan, 40% of the territorializable resources are assigned to the South and this is only the first step of a truly necessary paradigm shift. So, we hope that this 40% as soon as possible will increase precisely to fill that gap that exists between North and South. If the South starts again, the whole of Italy starts again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u43	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u44	Mr President, you said that mission 2, green revolution and ecological transition, is particularly important, because Italy is more exposed to climate risks than other countries. He is right, because Italy is a peninsula with 8500 kilometers of extremely fragile coasts and has the highest European biodiversity, unfortunately compromised, as well as an advanced hydrogeological failure due to a highly humanized natural environment. The resolution approved by the Senate on the previous version of the Plan contained a series of proposals for terrestrial and marine biodiversity, with an estimated commitment of about 4 billion euros, or less than 2% of the recovery budget. Yet, the government has failed to fulfil its commitments. We are also reminded of this today by Lipu, who has started an intercourse with the European Commission on the partial revision of the Plan, in order to include what Parliament has asked for. Ours is not an ecological transition, but rather an energy transition or, better, the strengthening of a lobby status that are struggling to change paradigms, as ENI has reminded us today in audition. In addition, the Plan finances energy production by burning agricultural waste and food waste, which are resources. There is no mention of agroecology for the conservation of ecosystem services of agricultural soil or the sustainability of animal husbandry. On the contrary, we support the development of biomethane obtained from energy recovery of organic residues with an amount of 2 billion euros: a debt that will be spread over the next generations together with the increase in temperature. It finances the realization of imposing infrastructural works, of communication and transports, of energy, also renewable (both at sea and on land), without a planning, but with a decree simplification that will weaken the assessment of environmental impact (VIA). We want progress, but we no longer want to invest our children's future in indiscriminate land use and energy sources that still use combustion. In the latest version of the recovery there is an important novelty and I am happy about this. The sea now has its own space in the Plan with an investment of 400 million euros in favour of marine biodiversity, the restoration of degraded ecosystems and their large-scale protection, foreordained - hopefully - also to the creation of marine protected areas. The trend towards ecosystem degradation needs to be reversed, enhancing resilience to climate change and promoting the maintenance and sustainability of key activities not only for coastal areas, but also for other marine production sectors. I am pleased that it is also intended to strengthen the Italian marine research system, the endowment of oceanographic ships managed by the State through a national agency, but in general this Plan fails... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u45	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u46	Mr President, President Draghi, members of the Government, colleagues, until a few months ago I feared that the opportunity represented by recovery would be wasted because it was managed with a vision of a country that I did not share, focused on assistantism and statism, that much damage could have brought to our economy. I'm definitely more optimistic today. President Draghi, I appreciated your ability to impose yourself in Europe and your willingness to make the country more competitive by projecting it towards the future. Within this text there are also the proposals of Forza Italia, on which we have been confronted in the last months of parliamentary work. We have always believed in the need to start a great season of reforms in order to restart the country. Simplifying the procedures for implementing infrastructure, ageing public administration, setting up a faster and fairer justice system, reforming the tax system by easing the burden on families, workers and businesses will be the essential prerequisite for full enjoyment of Europe's opportunity. Many are the objectives of the Plan, but there is one that is particularly close to my heart, namely the revival of the South. The investments put in place must serve to affirm a simple principle, but sacrosanct: every Italian citizen must have the same possibilities, be able to claim the same rights and take advantage of the same services from Pantelleria to Bolzano. Overall, the South will be able to count on an unprecedented amount of resources. Mr President, as you said, a choral work will be carried out. Therefore, the comparison with local administrations will have to be constant. There's a lot to do in the South. Those who know the problems of the territory are a valuable source of suggestions. Listening carefully to individual realities can really make a difference. It will also be important to ensure that the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund can finally be used promptly and effectively. Only in this way, in fact, will the general authorisation of spending of large sums on this fund come out of the dykes of immobilism and the resources will be put for real into the economy. Until then, this Fund will be virtual and not real. For the South we can - for example - immediately recover so many good projects that have been set aside and have more courage and ambition. We also asked loudly for the bridge over the Strait to be included in the Plan. [[Applause]] We were told that it was not possible to insert it among the works that could be achieved by 2026. We have taken note of this, but we are convinced otherwise, partly because the project has been ready for some time and could start immediately. That is why we fear that, in reality, there is a lack of willingness to carry it forward. We consider it a mistake because we have skills, skills and resources to do so. We therefore trust that the project can be carried out with the Development and Cohesion Fund. The bridge over the Strait is a strategic work for Italy and Europe, in addition to the fact that it would give a response to the crisis of a region that represents the South in the South. Mr President, I am referring to Sicily, where we are asking for true high speed, as you say. Finally, you are well aware that the first tranche of aid from Europe will not come before the summer; in the meantime, it is necessary to act immediately to save so many honest workers who, through their sacrifice, have helped to limit the spread of contagions. The virus will not spread faster if restaurants close an hour later; it will not be that time to change things. Our economy must be supported by... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u47	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u48	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of trust in this Government and you, Mr President, have so far not betrayed expectations, including in foreign policy. Today, a vital game is played around the division of PNRR resources. It is very true that this is not a question of bell tower, as you said: if you recover the South, the whole country grows; it is very true. But Europe has established some criteria for sharing among the various nations (GDP per capita, population and unemployment). The Mezzogiorno, on the basis of those criteria, has significantly increased the share of European funds allocated to Italy. Yet, as the communities we represent complain, the criteria for allocating the resources adopted by the European Union do not correspond to those received by Italy. In this way, our country runs the risk of not closing that infrastructural and socio-economic gap that has been going on for too long. Also in the post-war period almost all the aid of the Marshall Plan ended up in the industrial triangle of Piedmont, Lombardy and Liguria, freezing every possibility of development of the Mezzogiorno, as evidenced also by the illustrious southernist Pasquale Saraceno. What happened with the Marshall Plan is likely to happen again today with the PNRR. After decades of intervention, the delay in the Mezzogiorno in relation to the Centre-North, in terms of GDP per capita, is now greater than in the 1970s. The inequalities and the incidence of poverty are large, infrastructure provision and the quality of public services required are unsatisfactory. It would be enough to think only of the state railways and the economic quantification of the net costs of the system for the State and, in contrast, of the condition of the national and local transports of the South. In Matera, a city from which I come, the European capital of culture, trains still travel on a narrow gauge; there is no state railroad, but on the other hand we have the station. The resources of the recovery plan are therefore the last opportunity for the Mezzogiorno, to see removed those blocks that the country has been carrying for over a century and a half. It is no coincidence that a network of mayors - gathered in the South Recovery acronym - believes that the Plan is not respectful of the Community guidelines. On the basis of these criteria, the figure for the Mezzogiorno is not 40%, but is between 66 and 68%. The statement made by Minister Carfagna is not a rash calculation. The truth is that the territorial constraints suggested by the committees, especially on the effect of economic interdependence, have not been respected. It is known, in fact, that, for every 100 euro invested in the South, more than 40 bounce in terms of supplies in the rest of the country: if of the 209 billion were destined to the South over 145 and 63 in the North, through the effect of economic interdependence, in the Mezzogiorno 89 billion would remain: 42 would be a percentage... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u49	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u50	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u51	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have long wanted to be able to speak with you, and today's opportunity is most favourable. Italy is deciding important investments for its future, but on the other hand it is legitimate to ask the following questions: who are we doing all this for? Who will benefit from these works and reforms? Who are we in debt for? It is news of these days that, in the balance between births and deaths, we have lost about 400,000 inhabitants: a city as big as Florence. As it may be, the tragic reality of the demographic winter risks irreversibly erasing the future of our country. Who are we gonna leave this to? To neighbouring countries, such as Turkey, which has more than double birth rates than our own? Paraphrasing the famous sentence attributed to Massimo D'Azeglio, after having redone Italy, we risk having no more Italians to leave it to. Mr President, forgive me if I say an apparent banality, but human life, which we all care about and which we need to support and support in order to restart the birth, to grow and develop in the best conditions, needs the family. Here, in order to seriously attack the demographic decline and with it the economic and social decline of Italy, it is necessary to return to invest on the family. I used the term "invest" and not "spend," because every euro invested in the family makes infinitely, both economically and on that of the human and social growth of the country. The single check is a first step, but it is not enough. We invest only 0.9% of GDP for the family, while the experience of neighbouring countries shows us that, in order to reverse the trend, we need to invest at least 5% of GDP. It is necessary to courageously put in place structural reforms that guarantee a humus in which over 20 million Italian families and almost 10 million young people can thrive. Family policies - as Professor Pierpaolo Donati teaches - must above all be specific, distinct from the useful social policies and the fight against poverty, and aimed at promoting the family unit and not its individual components. In this sense, the investment policies, referred to in mission 6 of the PNRR, which he has just explained to us, both with regard to motherhood, and with regard to the reconciliation of home-work times, but paying attention not to forgetting that it is also necessary to promote paternity and guarantee to children a balanced and correct relationship both with mother and with father. Mr President, kindergartens are fine, but even allowing more time with Mom and Dad is absolutely essential. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, investment in the family home, which you announced today, is also good, and we are very happy with that, because so many young couples can crown their dream, rooting on the ground and holding back the temptation to nomadism. There is, however, another aspect that we are paying attention to: tax fairness. I am speaking not of privileges, Mr President, but of simple equity, because it is absurd and contrary to Article 53 of the Constitution to pay taxes on income and expenditure intended to fulfil the duty, constitutionally imposed on parents, to maintain, educate and educate the offspring. It is desirable that a further incentive be put in place for all those small and medium-sized family enterprises that, with the work of mother, father, grandparents and children, make our country great every day. There are many other family policies, Mr President, which we would like to tell you and we hope to do so soon, with a little more calm. However, the problem of birth is not just an economic issue. It is not a mystery that the natural family, as recognized by the Constitution, is under heavy ideological attack and are also put to the examination of this Assembly divisive and ideological laws, which are obsessively pushed at a time when Parliament and the country would need maximum unity and maximum cohesion to overcome this emergency. Para-family social models or, worse, pseudo-family models are continually and obsessively proposed to the younger generations. Mr President, everything risks becoming a family and, consequently, nothing will be a family anymore. It is clear that this gigantic experiment of social engineering, very dear to some Italian and European realities, is already largely realized in the so-called advanced countries and the results are there to see: the individual takes the place of the person and loneliness becomes the demographic figure of the social fabric. In Sweden already today 50 percent of the inhabitants live alone. Without a family, people are born, grow, live and die alone. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in order to reverse the demographic trend, the social trend and, ultimately, the cultural trend, it is necessary to give back to family policies the place they deserve in the public budget, but also to have the cultural paradigm to which we want to report our action. [[Applause]] To do all this... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u52	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u53	You didn't convince us, President Draghi. We will not join the choir that applauds the epochal and historical event of this Assembly and of the media scene, colonized by corporations and oligarchies that limit the debate and discordant thought. Outside the bubble, we're not alone. On Sunday, in Piazza del Plebiscito, in Naples, there was the movement of the 500 mayors protesting against the unfair distribution of funds and yesterday, in Piazza Montecitorio, there was the Society of the cure: over 1,400 national networks, organizations, movements and the parties of the left who protested. You are not the new one, but an old system that is overcome by facts that does not want to give way. She represents an imposed restoration, a model of the sixteenth century that is not suitable to face the future, which instead demands social and ecological justice, out of the endless growth in a finite world, out of the unbridled competitiveness and the myth of the privatization of services - whose magnificences she celebrates and relaunches again - that have shown the nerves discovered of failure since the crisis of 2008, here by us with the collapse of the Morandi bridge, with its deaths, and worldwide with this pandemic. Yet, it does not change step, but accelerates. The PNRR confirms that. The first voice that weighs is that of business money for 14 percent and at high speed for 13 percent, which are worth more than a quarter of the Plan. Territorial health is expected to be 3.7% in six years; 1.69 billion is for air quality (0.9%); 0.5 billion is for the so-called forecast of climate change (0.2%). Bricioli then for culture, a sector devastated by the pandemic, with 1.1 billion, 0.6 percent, for cultural heritage and 0.16 billion, or nothing, for the cultural industry. Skip the legal minimum wage, which was there too. A plan written by McKinsey under the mandate of Confindustria Nord, then. To pave the way for investment, the Plan sets out the old ideas: freeing economic initiative from controls. The responsibility for erarial damage is still limited and anti-mafia checks are simplified until 2023, despite the dry rejection of the National Anti-corruption Authority and in this regard I refer to what the former President said. I shall conclude, Mr President. To the south 500 mayors in the square, why? To the south 70 percent of the funds had to go; instead, it is estimated to be 40 percent celebrated as a victory, while it is a subtraction of 60 billion. Europe has used precise criteria to allocate funds for territorial disparities; it has assessed the inverse of GDP, unemployment and population, and Italy has been allocated the resources envisaged to reduce the territorial disparity between North and South due to the chronic economic and social backwardness of the eight southern regions. It does not count the expected forecast of growth; the gap will not be filled by the index that is expected to rise from 22 to 24% of GDP in the South. [[Applause]] for a population that represents as many as 34... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u54	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u55	Mr President, fellow senators, members of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan contains both numbers, deadlines and projects, but it is a strategy of the future, which will change Italy: it is the direction in which change will take place and we cannot fail. When I talk about change, I mean the real one, which is what will see the weak and the needs of the citizens first. But will this happen? It's up to us. It will happen when the words "sustainability," "ecological transition," "resilience," "equality," "territorial cohesion," and concepts such as "filling the gap between the North and the South" are not slogans, but will be heard and accompanied by clear actions. It is a race against time - we know this - and we recognize the great work that has been done; we also remember that it was started by President Giuseppe Conte. Yes, it is a race, but Parliament wants and must be there. We worked on the Plan with a report which contained many observations, but I must say with regret that many proposals in the Plan have not been found, especially those concerning the protection of our ecosystem, biodiversity and water resources. I would like to hope that the Plan, which has a general character, will later have clear lines in its plans to follow; projects which - I repeat, even as a Member of Parliament - have not yet been known. It is a technical plan to which we must add a piece of heart. You too, President Draghi, at the beginning of your speech said that there are faces and lives in that plan. But it is not enough to increase gross domestic product, it is not enough to increase employment; to create prosperity is another thing: it means that everything must travel together with the care of the ecosystem, the reduction of pollution and the health of citizens. In that plan, there must be protection of the life of the planet in the first place; it is not something to be taken under the ambush. 37 percent is the green part: we did the homework, but actually I would expect something more than a homework, because we can't talk about percentages when we're shipwrecking. We had to dare more and not just say it in Parliament, but our boys in the squares told us every Friday. President Draghi, I have read with pleasure a statement from you: the Government is committed to presenting a law on land use. This is very important. The 5 Star Movement, in the Environment Commission, has been working for a law on soil consumption for a year. At last we have incardinated a bill on urban regeneration, that will foresee an endowment pairs to 500 million euros annual from 2021 until 2040: therefore a plan of approximately 10 billion. We hope that this measure will go ahead; I say this because 1,500 amendments have been tabled by a political force. We must thank that it is not 250,000, as happened in another case, but I want to draw attention to this: if we do not cooperate together on everything we do in Parliament, clearly with the help of the Plan that we are discussing today, how can we say that we will really give our children a future? I would also like to conclude by recalling the Government's commitment to introducing simplification measures for the superbonus; in fact, we need not only simplification measures: we need to finance them, and the horizon of 2023 must be clear in order to be able to continue a well-established work. [[Applause]] The beauty of our country must be protected because it is unique in the world, like Venice which has its fragile lagoon, like the centuries-old olive trees in Puglia, like our beautiful coasts (along which oil must not be extracted), like our watercourses and cultural heritage. But then there is another important beauty, which is the smile on every face that is now covered by those who have been our mistakes: the Covid-19 is in fact a mistake that comes from a wrong economic model and this transition is necessary for a model that is economic and ecological, with a human face. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u56	Senator Magorno is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u57	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, fellow Senators, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan once again penalises the South, allocating only 40% of its resources to it. It is true that important public works will be financed and there will be interventions that will certainly benefit and develop in the Mezzogiorno. However, despite the great progress made by the current Government compared to the previous one and the admirable work of the minister for the South and territorial cohesion, Mara Carfagna, the Mezzogiorno continues to be the weakest part of the country. The recovery plan represents the last real opportunity of redemption for the Mezzogiorno, which does not demand more, but only claims what is due to it according to the criteria of distribution of the funds indicated by Europe. As Mayor of Calabria and Senator of the Republic, who brings to this House the voice of the southern directors and mayors of the Southern Recovery, as I have done on other occasions, precisely to protect the rights of all citizens, I will not vote for the recovery plan, but I continue to have confidence, believing that this is still an extraordinary opportunity given to the South. I hope that the funds can reach the municipalities directly, so that the mayors, especially those of the South, will find a way not to return the funds, but to spend them on their communities. I conclude by thanking the Group to which I belong for the contribution it has made, through its Ministers and its Subsecretaries. I thank them and at this moment for me there are no political colors, except the green, white and red of the Italian flag and the tricolor band that the mayors wear every day. That tricolor that encloses itself and expresses the ideals, values and principles of unity, an undisputed symbol of the Unity of Italy, which from North to South has the duty to guarantee equal human, social and economic dignity to all Italian citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u59	Mr President, Professor Draghi, the issue of justice is crucial for recovery and you have done well to extend the relevant paragraph significantly in your Plan, compared to the two narrow pages of the initial draft. The delays in the judicial system cost Italy 2.5% of GDP, 130,000 jobs, 1,000 euros per capita. That is why the resources devoted to justice from the recovery fund are insufficient, I would say almost ridiculous. There is no reform of the procedural or substantive rules that can work without adequate resources. We need a strong investment in the organizational and administrative staff, but above all in the staff of the magistrates. Just to give an extreme example, those who think of solving problems by means of the formula of the appeal instead of the act of summons to introduce the judgment or is an illusory one, or have never been in a court of law. My time is short and I go for flash: on the civil trial, it is okay to implement the office for the trial, as long as it does not become an instrument to circumvent the judicial function of the judge. No to the instruction delegated to those who are not judges; no to have the sentences written by those who, even if they are members of the court office, are not a judge. And again: no to the single judge of appeal; collegiality is a value and we cannot forget it. Again: yes to incentives for alternative dispute resolution tools (mediation, negotiation and arbitration), but no to mandatory; it is necessary to safeguard the right of every citizen to a judgment on his or her rights. I'm moving on. You have been guilty of ignoring the honorary judiciary in your plan. He totally ignored her. They are the riders of Italian justice: they work with self-denial and a sense of sacrifice, without any social and welfare protection and with an almost ridiculous piecework fee. Without them, Italian justice would collapse. It is necessary to recognize their great professionalism, their sense of the state and must therefore be stabilized on the basis of the same law that established the honorary vice-priests in 1974. On the criminal trial, the trial is often the real penalty that affects innocent and guilty indifferently. Only in 2020, the state had to spend €46 million to compensate for legal errors and unjust detention. There is a serious problem of abuse of preventive imprisonment, which you and your government must finally have the courage to face. You think that only the so-called Pinto law costs the Italian State almost 200 million euros a year: it is a shame. In addition, as regards the prescription, the Bonafede reform, which abolishes the prescription after the judgment at first instance even for those who have been acquitted, must be suspended, Professor Draghi, pending the reform, in vain promise, of the institute, so much announced but never implemented. No to the defendants for life. And, again, on life imprisonment (listen to me, professor, please), it is useless for you to boast in your report state-of-the-art legislation in the fight against organised crime, if you release even the mobsters who dissolve children in acid. [[Applause]] We pose a challenge: we change the Constitution, if necessary, but mafia criminals must remain in prison, they must not be released. I'm going to conclude. You say that we must reform the MSM; we say to you: enough with the current degeneration and with the goods of the highest offices of the judiciary! You have to be radical, you have to adopt the temperate draw system. And, again, no to the revolving doors between the judiciary and politics: the magistrate who stands, elected or not, must not go back to carrying out judicial functions. [[Applause]] And, again, the civil responsibility of the magistrates needs to be reformed. No to a medieval privilege: in democracy those who fail pay. Do this, Professor Draghi, and you will have us at your side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u60	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u61	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I listened carefully to your speech on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and thank you, because you made an illustration of the objectives, projects and resources a vision, which is the red thread that unites the entire development of the Plan. At the center is Italy, its future; at the center are the people that Italy inhabits and, as you said, the lives of Italians, young people, women, the elderly, those who had to keep their activities closed in order to protect the health of all and the disadvantaged territories. It has reminded us - and we are all aware of it - the structural gaps of our country, in particular the indispensable need to reform justice and public administration. Let's think about how the state's project offices were essential for restarting and rebuilding in the post-war period. It is therefore essential, in order to give support to everything, to quickly graft fresh and qualified resources into public offices. He reminded us of the reforms. Colleagues, on the reforms we will also look like our nobility, because we need the effort of everyone, but of Parliament first and foremost, to make the necessary reforms, as Senator Zanda reminded us in a very applauded speech last week. Parliament's central role, but in order to do so it is necessary - and here I quote it again - not to have myopic visions of the part before the common good. Mr President, you have highlighted the cross-cutting guidelines which make up the Plan: the cross-compliance clause on young people and women, as you know very strongly requested by the Democratic Party, so that all measures have an impact on this, and the bet on the development of the South for the growth of Italy as a whole. There are not only lists and statistics in his speech, but the profile of a community. This was also clear from the examples he made to talk about digital transformation, so that all boys and girls can choose the best educational opportunities, because with telemedicine not only the elderly, but anyone who needs it can be better assisted. The digital transformation must then come to this. It is precisely from the people that you have started and it is on these that I too wish to concentrate on a few points. The figures on absolute poverty are alarming: growth from 2015 to 2019 from 3.3 to 7.7 percent, even almost 10 percent in 2020, we all have confidence. We are all looking at the ranks in our cities in front of the parish canteens or in front of the voluntary associations that give the food package. The effects of this impoverishment also on the middle class will not disappear shortly. Material satisfaction is the first necessary response, but it is not enough. The reduction of transfers to local authorities in the past had already weakened our social networks, the pandemic has given them a heinous blow. To get out of this crisis, social infrastructure is just as important as material infrastructure (she talked about it). We need support designed not to disperse the nerves of the culture of solidarity. Those who have suffered the most need material aid, but not only: the reconstruction of sociality, the strengthening of volunteering and the third sector will make our community stronger. Another emphasis is on strengthening the whole educational path. The kindergartens are allocated 4.6 billion, the same resources that had been thought of in the previous government project. For some years now there has been no mention of social services for kindergartens, but of educational services, because that is what they are. It is an important choice that can be implemented, not forgetting that the deficiency is mainly in the South. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have very important experiences, formidable competences developed over the years in our municipalities. A few years ago I was city council member at the school and educational services in Genoa and I had the opportunity to visit the then 34 kindergartens municipal nests. I still have in my eyes the extraordinaryness of those services, the teachers of the nests and of the schools of the childhood. So, in fact, they wanted to be called, because they said that the term "mother's school" refers to the fact that children are mothers, instead those were childhood schools because children make them mothers and dads. They had extraordinary experiences: I saw workshops with important artists make the children of kindergartens work, I saw music workshops where they played all the instruments of the world. In Reggio Emilia there was a school, as far as childhood education is concerned, which has set an example in the world. Parents do not just want their children to be cared for; they care for the quality of their time in the most important years of life. Therefore, together with the constructions we think about this project. The civil service project is a project that I very much believe in. When I had the responsibility of the Ministry of Defense I was sometimes stopped and wondered why we did not restore the mandatory lever; I explained that it is antihistorical compared to what the Armed Forces must do today, but I would have been very much in agreement with a mandatory civil service, for the bonds of our community and because it is a powerful, strong value message for our young people. On this I also presented a bill. The proposal is not a mandatory civil service, but to implement universal civil service, which would already be a very important signal and will be important in the restart. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that with the experience of Covid we have all said that we must not allow this experience to change us. The National Health Service has been essential to react but... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u62	Senator, you may submit the text of your speech to the proceedings of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u63	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u64	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Italy chooses to violate EU criteria in order to steal money from the South. Today we are about to vote on an important document; it should have been a solemn moment, but it is not for my part and, no, it cannot be because the South has not once again been made the protagonist of that protagonism to which Europe had nominated it. Italy wins, if it wins the South, it is said; once again it will not happen. This is why there have been criticisms and statements by the presidents of the South Regions and 500 mayors who have gathered in the square to highlight the rift that has once again been carried out to the detriment of the South. Despite the words made by Minister Carfagna to the square, the perplexities remain all. The Minister referred to the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno, the EU Funds and the Fund for Development and Cohesion (FSC). I would like to point out that the funds of the old Cassa per il Mezzogiorno amounted to EUR 140 billion and that the funds of the Fund for Development and Cohesion, as well as the Structural Funds 2021-2027 and React-EU are already due to the South, regardless. I don't think it's right to present something that is already yours as a generously granted gift. I am sure that the Minister wanted to point out that, at last, for once, the funds allocated will not for a large part be diverted to the North Centre - I hope - after more than twenty years of this established practice, both regular and illegal. I would also like to point out that the expenditure on the Cassa was around 5% of GDP, equal to the annual figure guaranteed by Italy to the Third World countries, when in the North, at the same time, public investment amounted to 35% of GDP. The real point of the question that led the 500 mayors to raise their voices against the plan is, however, that what is being made through extraordinary concession offered to the Mezzogiorno, assigning to it 40% just of the money of Next generation EU is actually an illegitimate hijacking of the Funds prepared by Europe specifically for South Italy in order to approach the two parts of the country. Italy was the nation that benefited from the largest part of the funds, 28% more. This was because of the difficult situation in the Mezzogiorno. The South has helped to activate as many as 135 billion, of the 209 allocated to Italy by the European Union. Therefore, 65% of funding should have been allocated to the South, but that was not the case. Europe had dictated very precise stakes, which have been disregarded. There is an aggravating factor if it is true that in the North the pandemic has reaped so many more lives, in the South it has brought so much poverty. Therefore, referring to the letter written on October 7, 2009, where Europe called Italy the cut where it did not respect those stakes that had been well placed, there would be cuts. I wonder what happens now and ask President Draghi to put a few more points in favour of the South. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u65	I suspend the session for 45 minutes so that we can proceed to sanitization. (The sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u66	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u67	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to a number of ideas and ideas and I would like to avoid repeating some of the concepts that have been put forward in this debate. Therefore, Mr President, I have tried to try to put myself in the shoes of the ordinary citizen, to understand what he has understood of this National Resilience Recovery Plan. Well, I think that the Italian citizen has understood that, first of all, Europe is there, Europe has changed its pace, Europe is finally showing solidarity and it is a process that has been initiated with quantitative easing, of which President Draghi himself was the author. This process of solidarity is, unfortunately, perfecting itself at this pandemic stage, but we finally have the Europe that we all imagine and dream of. Of course, we must make it very clear, Mr President, that we are not going back. You can't go back. We must, however, say with equal clarity that all this depends solely on us, on our seriousness and on our reliability. If we give in to the natural instinct for consensus, we will hardly implement this ambitious plan. If, instead, we have as compass the general interests of the country, we are convinced that this Plan can be completed. The other element that reassures the Italian citizen is the fact that money is, in various forms: lost funds, loans, unimaginable funds. All this reassures him, because he knows that he is no longer alone and, above all, that he can have hope: and without hope he cannot build his future. Then, there are the doubts and concerns of Italian citizens, which I wanted to summarize with a question: but are we able to spend all this money? Above all, are we able to spend them well? The answer, which unfortunately is not in this Plan, is called reforms. The reforms have been postponed. Therefore, there will be a chance for Parliament to get involved in these reforms. The real challenge, however, will be the reforms that will implement the National Plan. There it will prove the courage of this ruling class: whether it is a ruling class aware of the difficulties of the country or if it is a ruling class all locked up in itself. The Italian citizen, President Draghi, is aware of the Babele normative that has gripped him for too many years. Moreover, to this Babel is added the narcissist Babel of scientists who, in recent times, have set aside science and have exalted the influencer. He is an Italian citizen, I dare say, disappointed by the Babel of the competences, the conflicts of competences between the Regions and the central State. Our job is to take down all these Babels. We are aware that there are no more excuses, which depend only and exclusively on us, on this ruling class. President Draghi, you mentioned Schumpeter on the day of your inauguration: replace old parts with new parts. The old parts are the obsolete ones, those that block the free initiative, those that do not give dignity to the person. We hope, Mr President, that in this Plan there will be a genuine transition and not an association, because transition means putting aside the old parts to build the new parts. President, as you well know, this is a government which is the result of the generosity and responsibility of all the different political forces. Now, however, it is necessary to create a compromise on reforms, which means the noble meeting of different ideas for the good of Italy. He mentioned De Gasperi. Let me remind you of one of his words before the departure for Cleveland: I am convinced that, in one of the most distressing moments and despite all the usual defeatists that revolve around us, Italy will prove to be ready and worthy among the free and civil countries. Mr President, that is our wish. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u68	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u69	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Government, I confess a real emotion also because its authority and competence are intimidating. It is not the first speech I make in this House, but probably the narcissism of those who preceded it did not arouse any awe. Mr President, I would like to extend my greetings to you. Mr President, by quoting our head of department, Mr Bitonci, the Plan only works if reforms are dealt with, starting with cutting red tape, for example. With 400 billion less turnover, a decline in GDP of around 9%, simplification and cutting red tape are key to recovery. Mr President, an average of 15 years' waiting for works above EUR 100 million cannot be tolerated. [[Applause]] The Genoa model works: it has been demonstrated. There are also satisfactions on the Plan. We appreciate the commitment to tax, justice and public administration reforms. Mr President, it is very good when you talk about trust in Italians. We have always put trust in Italians, especially when we talk about reopenings. We agree when he talks about relaunching tourism and when Minister Garavaglia finally unlocks 350 million euros for the tour operator sector, travel agencies and fairs. [[Applause]] Curfew at 10 p.m. is not acceptable. I think it's clear to everyone now. The risk we have run - I hope I can speak in the past - is that 50% of the air routes to Italy with this curfew will be diverted elsewhere for obvious reasons. Having to go home at 22, while in other countries you can still enjoy the summer, it doesn't help us. If the fear of gathering after 10 p.m. for bars and restaurants is a problem and gives cause for concern, let me tell you something: Mr President, today I did Genoa-Rome in a full airplane without space. [[Applause]] To the proposal of someone who wants to launch the fashion of sunbathing with the mask, I answer provocatively: we jogging with the ski suit. Speaking of the superbonus, everyone calls for an extension to 2023. At the same time, we are very concerned about conditionality in order to achieve this extension. Mr President, you yourself said that with the combination of the extension with cross-compliance and the absence of simplifications, which we have asked for and had included in the recovery, there is a risk that the sector will be blocked. The effectiveness of this measure is what we play on simplification. It doesn't rain. The grounding of this measure goes through simplification and, of course, in 2023 we risk blocking investment from this point of view. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to a subject that is dear to me, which we wanted to put across. I do not know if there is Senator Croatti - I put on the glasses so I see him - that with me he did a battle for the tourist guides, who finally and fortunately ask for a reform of their situation, also because they are, perhaps, those who have suffered the most difficult moment resulting from this pandemic in the tourism sector. If you want to meet this challenge with Mr Garavaglia, Mr President, we will be there. I will finish because there is not much time. The recovery plan obviously cannot be the solution to all the problems, especially if it is not accompanied by the reforms that everyone expects. But it is certainly an extraordinary opportunity. In the reform that Europe is asking us about gender equality, social rights and sustainability, Europe and above all you, Mr President, defend us from those countries that compete with our continent, that these rules do not respect them. Do it and we'll be with you, whatever it takes, Mr. President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Turco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u71	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be aimed at providing some technical and constructive suggestions arising from government investment experience and personal academic experience in economic matters. The present document confirms the strategic vision of the Government Count 2; it deviates from it for otherwise aggregated amounts and for a different geographical distribution of investments. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan, in continuity with the one approved by the Government Count 2 - to which it is necessary to address a heartfelt thanks - represents an unrepeatable opportunity to promote public investment, introduce reforms, support development and realize the social issue of the Country. However, we cannot forget, President, that our country has received more European funds for the socio-economic backwardness of South Italy, which has become one of the poorest and most underdeveloped areas in Europe. For this reason, Southern Italy expected more investment than expected if the same EU criteria were applied when allocating resources to individual Member States. Other than 40% stated in the Plan: the application of the three parameters (average per capita GDP, number of inhabitants and unemployment rate) could have guaranteed to South Italy 65% of the resources allocated. [[Applause.]] The application of these same criteria to the individual regions of the Mezzogiorno, Mr President, would have produced such a result: Abruzzo 4.2 billion, Molise 1.4, Campania 43, Puglia 26,7, Basilicata 2.2, Calabria 16,8, Sicily 41,1, Sardinia 8.9. Mr President, for the umpteenth time, the South is sacrificed for the more general interest of the country. We can only consider this a good starting point. In order to achieve the ambitious objectives of the Plan, a number of reforms have been confirmed: public administration, taxation, justice, simplification and competition. However, Mr President, I believe that other reforms are also needed, such as the conflict of interest, the abuse of office, the reform of the banking system (especially cooperative credit), the fight against corruption, the mafia infiltration, the destructive financial speculation of the real economy, the latter reform to be supported, if possible, at European and international level. Moreover, the reforms on the essential levels of performance (LEP) have already been mentioned and I also add the structural reform of public debt, which defines how debt is to be repaid and promotes an internal self-financing plan, President, aimed at promoting expansionary fiscal policies without necessarily resorting to the financial markets, extending the principle of transferability of tax credits also to public administration credits and providing for a special investment institution that will have to channel the savings of Italians in a fruitful way towards profitable investments. All the reform measures, Mr President, will have to intertwine and address the difficult and complex issue of investment policy for public works. In Italy, Mr President, the average temple for a work of over EUR 100 billion is over fifteen years, against the ten years of Germany and France. Then we consider the spending capacity, especially for the southern regions, with reference to the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund (FSC) 2014-2020, of which, compared with 68 billion euros available, we managed to plan only 48 billion euros and to have, in six years, an expenditure of only 3 billion euros. The danger of not achieving the desired objectives and targets is therefore very high. The new reform in the field of public procurement will have to give certainty to the regulatory framework, reduce the different stages of investment, introduce new management monitoring tools, solve the long-standing problem of appeals and litigation, provide for a certificate of quality of the entrusted companies, which demonstrates their economic and financial sustainability, in order to avoid ongoing business crises, review the tasks of the sole party responsible for the procedure (RUP) and, moreover, introduce an accountability to citizens on the state of progress of public works. It would also be important for South Italy to include the so-called economic inclusion clause. Mr President, I want to highlight some critical issues, on which I believe that the Government must commit itself officially in this House, on the sure ways of reintegrating the anticipation of 15.5 billion euros for the FSC funds, on the realization of research centers and stations of supply of hydrogen also in the South Italy, on the strengthening of the expenditure for the modernization of the railway lines internal to the South, with particular reference to the infrastructures of proximity (in the House have already been mentioned the Taranto-Bari and Taranto-Naples routes: three hours for 300 kilometers) and on the possibility, also for the South, of intercepting the intercontinental marine traffics. In the realization of the energy transition will then be important the decisions on the steel plant of Taranto, where the only permissible transition will have to foresee the abandonment of coal, no longer sustainable, experimenting new innovative production processes, the assessment of special environmental impact (VIAS) and also a program agreement, aimed at managing the production lines destined for the closure. Mr President, I should like to end by reminding you that the success of the recovery plan can only depend on the growth of South Italy. The pandemic leaves us with a country with greater inequalities, which we cannot ignore. Europe has made the provision of funds conditional on reducing these inequalities: we cannot risk losing these resources. The funds allocated to the South are considered insufficient and we will continue to support the need to revise these resources for the South. At the same time, we know that today the most important game to win is to spend these resources in the best possible way. [[Applause]] I would ask you, Mr President, to attach the text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u72	The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u73	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how many times in these fourteen months of pandemics have we said to ourselves: We see the light at the end of the tunnel. Today, with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, there is not only a light that we can see, but a series of lights on, that all together can illuminate the destiny of our country. They are also brightened by the intercourse work that Parliament has done, that it will have to continue and that you, Mr Draghi, duly recall. They are lit lights, which must remain brighter and brighter, thanks to the concrete implementation of the PNRR. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u75	Excuse me, Senator Parente.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u76	Colleagues, the volume of your conversations prevents you from listening to Senator Parente's speech and I address myself above all to one side of the hemicycle, asking you for the courtesy to lower the tone of your voice. Parent (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President. The crisis is health and from there we must start again, in order to illuminate our journey, out of respect for our 120,000 deaths: let us never forget that we are in debt to their families and to the social and health personnel, who have worked and who in many cases still work in crazy conditions. The reforms that we must face must start from the unsolved structural nodes of our country system, which may be the last opportunity to dissolve, he is right, President Draghi. Never more clogged hospitals, not abandoned Covid patients, delays in home care. Never more differences between regions even in the choice of priorities among the people to be vaccinated - I believe that we have touched the climax - that, thanks to its government, has been defined and ordered, vaccination first of all the elderly and the fragile, with its personal moral warning, as well as with the commitment of the General Son, not to override the priorities. Never blow the virus tracking again, not invest in research, artificial intelligence, telemedicine and personalized care. Never again have the RSAs as we have known them, endless bureaucratic practices and our young disheartened resident doctors. Therefore, technologically renewed health care and, at the same time, human health is the best protection factor for the economy and for the effects on employment. Health, with justice and work, is one of the fundamental pillars of the social state. Well, then, the NRP 20 billion to spend on prevention, territorial medicine, digital health and home care. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Republican spirit that the President of the Council rightly evokes and which arouses emotion in me must cancel all the ruling classes, but above all politics and science, in an ethical revival for the staff, for all the professions, for the administrative frameworks of our country. It is felt in his speech, President Draghi, a different and bright destiny of the PNRR because it is aimed at involving the whole nation, to be one with citizenship. A citizenship that suffered so much, even before the epidemic, for a health that has not always arrived effectively at the doors of people, especially in the most remote villages of our country. Citizens and citizens informed and cohesive in a far-sighted national community. A citizenship that in these fourteen months, for great numbers, has shown courage and endurance and for which we must be proud and of whose well-being and dignity we must be responsible at the same time. So the PNRR must not and cannot be a loose set of projects, which you have rightly pointed out, but must have a courageous and effective vision, which can no longer tolerate rents of position: a true will, therefore, for innovation and modernisation through two paths, in my opinion. First of all, the practical implementation of a territorial medicine, but included in a project and a model of national reform, supported by bureaucratic simplifications and digitisation, operations closely connected with each other. We must launch a major training plan for social and health professionals and public administration staff, with a very close socio-health synergy. Without human value - we discovered it even during the epidemic - there is no reform that holds. The sense of teamwork, in the sharing of ambitious and concrete projects, for a care continuum without holes between home and hospital and vice versa, with truly efficient intermediate structures, conceiving the basic doctor as a territorial primary together with multi-professional groups, so that no one can feel abandoned in case of need. Secondly, incentives for research into vaccines, monoclonal antibodies and the entire industrial health chain are organized immediately, in the same way as the defence of a country. The creation of a centre of excellence for continuous surveillance and prevention of other epidemics. In this regard, I welcome the call of scientific excellence on the rising phenomenon of resistance to bacteria and, therefore, the commitment to this in order to prepare for other problems. I conclude with the feeling that the PNRR is already a lively and concrete look, but it must be compared immediately with the current situation. Health as a major investment in the safety and care of citizens without discrimination. It is very likely that the PNRR will be supported and protected and will need additional resources. Italy Viva has launched for this a 2030 health plan, with a great itinerary to listen to operators and territories. Let's get out of a dramatic moment. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, mentioned by Mr De Gasperi, and I would like to remind you of Mr Tina Anselmi, the mother of the National Health Service, who remembered how over the years Forty there was the conviction that dialogue allows a country to progress. Although the phrase that has remained in my heart is: the conquests are never forever. We interpret this historical phase, colleagues and colleagues, in an immense spirit of service and preparation for a continuous dialogue: conditions that, alone, can determine the destiny of Italy starting from the practical implementation of the National Plan. There are protagonists who have managed to move on to history because they have left us as a legacy extraordinary conquests. We are in front of a real post-war period and it is up to us all, from the Palace to the squares, to be able to concentrate so great meanings in actual realizations. We will be judged and remembered; better if we have transformed what appears to be a dream - Shakespeare said that we too are made of the same substance as dreams - making Italy, compared to Europe, a model of reconstruction. Not a indebted country, but an example of ideas, projects and innovation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u77	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u78	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I honestly have some doubts about this PNRR. Above all, I have the doubt that it was a negotiation between you and the European Commission: in fact, when I hear 'I guarantee', I have the doubt that perhaps Europe does not trust Italy or does not trust the Italians. It seems impossible for us to expel this Parliament, which is the only place where the representatives of the people sit, and we are hiding behind the date of 30 April. We all know that the date of 30 April is not a peremptory date and that a few more days could have been taken if one had taken to heart the place where the representatives of the people sit. But I also doubt that perhaps the reasons for this haste are others. Maybe she wanted to compress the times, didn't want to give space to all of us in order to read the hundreds of pages of a document so full-bodied and important. Perhaps because you fear most of all your majority; perhaps you thought that your majority could divide. We have this suspicion very, very strong. There is another reason why, in our opinion, you, Mr Draghi, should have had more respect for Parliament. When his government was to be formed, Brothers of Italy asked for elections, because it said: Let us give, as is written in our Constitution, the word to the Italian people, who will surely be able to choose for the best even in such a difficult phase. But we were told no: we are a parliamentary Republic, so if the President-in-Office of the Council has a majority in Parliament, the Constitution is respected. Well, Mr Draghi, you are the fruit: you are sitting in that chair precisely because there has been an interpretation of the Parliamentary Republic. Instead, we see that Parliament is annoying to you. We understand, it is a rite that must do; today he came here and read us his interpretation, his vision of what must be Italy of the future, but he refused to give time to all of us to be able to deepen. We have an even more difficult role, if you will allow me, because we represent the opposition in this Parliament, and being opposed is a very difficult task that makes us assume even more responsibility. How could we give our vote as if we signed a blank bill of exchange? The reality is that we can't in twenty-four hours; for goodness' sake, everyone will sit here more insightful and faster than us, who have been able to read very well and in detail all the pages of his PNRR. It's not like that for us. However, we must also debunk another myth, also because we must not give all these hopes to the Italians, saying that now the money from Europe and the recovery fund will come and all the enormous damage that caused the pandemic to our nation will be fixed. Well, I don't know if that will be the case, because to date your government, together with the previous one, has managed to spend almost 200 billion. Today we are talking about 130 billion debt, but those 200 billion were spent not bad, terrible, because they certainly did not serve to keep the economy up, they did not serve to safeguard jobs and they did not help the last. They were thrown into the basket, because you spent those 200 billions with an ideological vision, which is to please a little 'all parties of the majority. And we found the holiday bonus, which certainly doesn't seem a tool to help tourism; we found the wheelchairs, which were devastating, because we see how school is still today, and it doesn't seem certain that it opened in safety. You have given tips; we have called them not decrees support and refreshment, but alms. You will remember that with the last check - and not everyone has yet received it - you have given support from the data, with a contribution of 1.7 to 5% of the lost turnover. Well, it takes a lot of courage to call it support decree. Therefore, the myth that must be broken is not to show up to the Italians by saying that Europe's money is now coming. Moreover, many of these are a debt that will weigh on our future generations. If you'll allow us, we would have wanted time to analyze it. (Garnero Santanchae followed). But then I'd like to ask you another question. Compared to the titles that you have listed us today, who can disagree? We all agree on the titles, but I compare them: when we read articles in the newspapers, very often the title catches our attention. Then, alas, when we go to read the contents of the article, we see that it is very far from the title of the newspaper. Here is a bit the same thing: who does not agree on tax reform? We all agree that tax reform is necessary; we all agree that taxes are too high in this country, but you, Mr President, seem to me to be getting your jacket pulled by the Party of "more taxes," the Democratic Party. In fact, you say - and it says in your PNRR (I hope it is yours and it has not been written by the European Commission) - that cadastral values must be revised and re-evaluated. For us this is called masked asset in a new and different dress, but always to increase taxes it is. And I tell you that you are in good company, because many of your predecessors used to lick their mustache when they thought they could get their hands - as they did then - on those who own real estate. And let's not talk about the rich ones, President, but let's talk about the majority of Italians who, after a life of sacrifice and sweat of the forehead, managed to buy a house. So, he understands that the title can be misleading. But we have another concern. We have seen how your majority has divided over an extra hour of curfew, while you know that we believe that it was not precisely in your power to put a curfew, because we believe that a government's task is to study protocols, controls and sanctions and not to continue, after fourteen months, to limit the freedom of Italians. Then how will you do it, President? I understand that you are "super Mario," but how will you achieve the reforms with a majority that is rightly and lawfully opposed to the vision of Italy and the nation? Then what will be his reform of justice? That of the Movimento 5 Stars, who wants everyone in jail, or that of a part of the parties that support his majority, who asks, as we ask, that the trial also speed up, since today there is never an end to the trial? Are you gonna be with anyone who wants to take off the prison, or are you gonna be with that part of the majority who wants the certainty of the sentence? I already told you about the IRS. What worries us is that you too, in this document, tell us that first we need to reform and then invest. Mr President, I understand that it is not political, but history should be. It would suffice for you to study what has happened in recent years, when a lot of money has not been spent because it went to break itself against the wall of bureaucracy. You take the responsibility in front of the Italians to do in two years... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u79	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u80	Mr President, after more than fourteen months of nightmare, I think today is a good day, a day of hope for all Italians. The Next generation EU makes us take a step towards a Union of solidarity and responsibility; a Union that is stronger than the sum of the parties, as the President of the European Commission said on 28 November last, inaugurating the academic year of Bocconi University. Solidarity and responsibility are the two key words around which this whole project revolves. The pandemic led to a leap forward from the European Union, unimaginable until recently. The Next generation EU is not only an unprecedented instrument; it is financed with common debt securities, will be partly repaid with Community taxes and distributed according to solidarity criteria. It was not assumed that Italy would become the first beneficiary of this programme. [[Applause]] Having achieved this result is a great victory for those who, in Rome and Brussels, have always worked for the Europe of solidarity and responsibility. On the contrary, it is a setback, indeed a defeat, of those in Europe who have been rowing against and in Italy who, even in this House, said that it was better to get out of Europe; and today it has finally changed its mind. [[Applause]] Mr President, the plan we are voting on today is not just an act of solidarity; it is our responsibility, because what will happen in Italy from today to 2026, i.e. whether or not we will be able to make the best use of this opportunity, will be a decisive factor. It will be crucial to consolidate this political turning point. It will be decisive to permanently archive the season of austerity. It will be crucial to make the Next generation EU permanent. Let us not forget that with this programme we borrow money from future generations. It is for this reason that we must put this money to the ground in the best possible way. The plans of the Plan that we are discussing today can change the face of Italy in the coming years, because the money for digitization can bring ultra fast Internet everywhere and this will change the way in which public services will work, the way in which you will study and work. The money for the ecological transition will increase the production of clean energy, help us improve the water network, waste management, local public transport. The superbonus, on which this Plan allocates €14 billion, will help tens of thousands of families to save energy and will start building. It is good that President Draghi has undertaken to extend it to 2023. The money for infrastructure will finally bring high speed to the Mezzogiorno and will allow us to secure bridges and viaducts. We will be able, with these resources, to increase the number of places in kindergartens, in children's schools, in high schools and we will be able to wire 40,000 schools. We will finance training and retraining projects, help female entrepreneurship and change the national health system, because those nearly 19 billion of the Plan will help us strengthen our presence on the ground and invest massively in technology and digitisation. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, behind all these projects is the new vision of the economy that Giuliano Amato spoke about today. It is a vision in which we fully recognize ourselves: a sustainable economy on the social and environmental side, in which capitalism is again tempered by ethical principles; an economy in which public and private return to integration. Reforms, as you said today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are a decisive component of the Plan not only to implement it, but above all to overcome the structural weaknesses that explain twenty years of stagnation in our country. The reform programme and the time schedule contained in the Plan are challenging, they are very ambitious (public administration, justice, simplification, competition, tax) and I think we are all aware of that. On these issues the starting points between the forces that support the Government are far away and in some cases in the past have also been opposed. But it is not an impossible mission to carry out those reforms; we will do them if we have the political capacity to overcome vetoes and to build points of encounter between very different forces and interests. [[Applause]] This, in fact, is the strength of reformism when it becomes political action. We will make these reforms if we demonstrate with the facts that we must do not because Europe asks us to do so, but because those reforms agree with Italy and the Italians. However, we must keep in mind a lesson, because we have tried several times in Italy to make structural reforms in order to modernise our country. Changes are never a gala lunch, they must be accompanied by social measures to help those who lose from reforms. Reformism from above on the head of the people is always destined for defeat [[Applause]] That is why, Mr Draghi, we need a new social pact, a pact for reconstruction between the political forces, the government and the social partners. That is why we need an assumption of political responsibility that binds all these forces to the country. The work must be at the center of this pact for reconstruction, because Italy will take at least two years to recover what we lost in 2020, when almost a million people have already lost their jobs; precarious, autonomous, young, women and others will lose it in the coming months. In this year of pandemic inequality has increased and new social fractures have opened and the country's resilience and cohesion is at risk. This is why in the Plan priority must be given to the projects that create more work, starting with that for young people and women, by concretely implementing the conditionality that the Democratic Party has strongly requested and obtained to include in the Plan. Next generation EU must serve to improve employment services, to strengthen active labour policies, to help businesses that choose not to fire, to encourage those who will create jobs and start new businesses in the coming years and it is crucial to put new industrial policies in place. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the plan that we will approve today must be brought to life in the country. We take note of the fact that the government has successfully dissolved the issues of governance, but we must take one step further, we must define the most effective ways to involve Parliament, the local authorities and the social partners in the implementation phase. This is the point of the proposal of a bicameral Commission on the PNRR, this is the sense of the request to create channels, so that the whole country participates in the implementation of the plan [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the way forward is not easy or safe, but it must be traveled and it will be. These are the words of Altiero Spinelli and Ernesto Rossi who concluded the Manifesto... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u82	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think that there have been two hard days in the House. Allow me, therefore, to draw your attention with numbers; indeed, better, with some uncertainties that exist on the numbers of resources available. On page 22 of the Plan there is a table that summarizes all the resources: 191.50 billion PNRR, 13 billion React-EU and 30.64 billion supplementary Fund, the one that travels over the years. The total is 235.14. However, Mr President, in your report you spoke of 15 billion of the Development and Cohesion Fund, which we know exists, but also of 26 billion other resources - and I quote your words - allocated by 2032, for the implementation of specific projects. The total of these resources is 276 billion. I understand that on the PNRR we have to write the things that directly concern the PNRR, but probably if the Ministry of Economics and Finance (MEF) provided an all-inclusive table that checks the figures and shows all the resources that are available could certainly help us. The task that awaits all political forces is that of the extraordinary economic and cultural opportunity to redesign the face of the Italian economy, starting a season of structural reforms and industrial policies, thus able to build a sustainable, digital and competitive ecosystem at European level, rethinking also the same model of territorial organization through the redevelopment and dissemination of services and infrastructures, without forgetting of course the Italian specificity. But I want to go into the concrete with some specific hints. I start from digitalization; I think it is necessary to overcome the logic of white areas and grey areas in order to adopt that of the universal right to connection - I repeat the concept: universal right to connection - involving in investments the operators who earn most from the widespread dissemination of the Network, from content providers to digital payment circuits, for example. In parenthesis on page 100 of the Plan, at the foot of the page there is a definition of the areas and it is done where there is a minimum of confusion. Black areas are mentioned, which are those where we know most operators, and are defined as market failure. Maybe it's worth reading that page again because it seems a little messed up. Digitisation is obviously a fundamental step which logically follows the process of digitisation of public administration. Valorization and inclusion of the national territory means not only promoting tourist itineraries for characteristic villages, but making those villages again habitable, bringing services, public administration, credit, health and infrastructure material and intangible, logistic hubs, 5G, digital redevelopment of public offices, coworking stations, intercepting also that phenomenon that is emerging and that has been defined deurbanization. Moreover, the Italian specificity of the fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises and their organization in industrial districts must be valued, creating logistical conditions for their formation even in the most peripheral areas of the country. It is a topic that concerns the South, the islands, but above all and also the internal areas. We must invest in proximity economy, make the whole national territory a place where we can build our own future. A second topic that I would like to touch quickly is the green economy. The same logic of development must be the basis of the energy and ecological tradition; therefore, the investment on the hydrogen supply chain and the circular economy, but attention must be paid to the issue of electric mobility, in particular with regard to the construction and disposal of lithium batteries. There is a wish here for the construction of battery construction plants, but you know, President, that in a laughing Swedish locality, but also in Turin, in the former Olivetti areas there are huge plants under construction; in Turin about 4 billion are invested, with 4,000 workers and with an induced of 15,000. So I have not quite understood why the wish is to build when there are already two huge projects that are spreading in Europe. Beyond these specific projects, however, the theme is not so much the production of batteries, but the supply of rare raw materials; lithium, first and foremost. In this sense a greater impulse would be needed to implement the research... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u83	Senator Romani, you can deliver the remainder of the intervention to be attached to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u84	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u85	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the recovery plan represents an important opportunity, I would say unrepeatable for the revival of our country. The pandemic has fallen harshly on Italy, mainly hitting the most fragile components of society: women and children. The relaunching project that we are drawing up with the PNRR could not therefore - and I have repeated this on several occasions - be without special attention to the most fragile. We must start again from the families and the smaller ones, certainly the recovery includes appropriations and resources never seen before in favour of these categories, although I confess that I would have preferred a more organic plant. Let me explain better: it would have been nice to see black on white, among the missions of the Plan, also a specific mission dedicated to childhood. Children and adolescents are our future and every project for the recovery and rebirth of Italy must necessarily include interventions in their behalf and in favour of families and young couples. I appreciate, Mr President, the clarity with which it represented the seriousness of the demographic situation in our country: so many deaths due to the epidemic, but also dramatically a collapse of births. The white plague of denatality found in the pandemic further sap. It is necessary to re-launch births, many couples no longer have children, as you mentioned, because they cannot have access to mortgages and therefore buy homes and plan the future. As President of the Bicameral Committee on Childhood and Adolescence, but before that as a woman and as a mother, I have repeatedly stressed the need for an investment plan for the 0-6 age group. The aim of Italy is to ensure that expenditure on children in general and on families is at least equal to the European average. An extraordinary commitment - it is undeniable - serves especially in the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, where this percentage of the supply of places in the kindergartens today appears a mirage. It is unacceptable that there are A and B children only because they are born in different regions of Italy. Let us not forget, moreover, that the lack of educational services for children, combined with the unequal distribution of family labour, negatively affects the supply of women's work and reduces the rate of participation of women in the labour market. In this spiral, mothers bear more burdens and greater responsibilities. I can, therefore, only appreciate the decision to continue along the path, on the one hand with the establishment of the universal allowance for children and on the other hand with the financing of 4.6 billion euros for kindergartens and schools for children and related education and care services. It is estimated that we should create some 228,000 jobs through the project. Of course, 900 million euros for investments aimed at ensuring the extension of full time and canteens are a few, but I want to see it as a starting point especially for the Mezzogiorno, where, as we know, not only the nests, but also the full time are scarce. This is a key measure to ensure that parents and women in particular are able to reconcile family and working life. In this regard, I also welcome the proposal by the Minister for Education, Mr Bianchi, who announced the allocation of 510 million to keep schools open for children to recover their social status even in June and July. Positive is also the allocation of 3.9 billion for school construction, resources that must result not only in important structural and anti-seismic interventions, but also in a more general modernization and innovation of the environments also in order to overcome the "hotel classes." The consequences of the epidemic have put a strain on the psychic health of the younger ones. I know that the Plan has favoured more concrete investments, but sometimes you have to throw your heart beyond the obstacle and also think about intangible assets such as the psychological well-being of children and adolescents. It should therefore be considered in the near future whether the educational and research mission should include the systematic and structural integration of the school psychologist in institutions of all levels. This Plan speaks of the future and without children there can be no future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u86	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u87	Mr President, Mr Draghi, thank you for your attention, which is not by everyone and which your predecessors have not always shown in the same way. Thank you first of all for the authority you are returning to Italy. Someone before you was waiting for advice, if you don't order from Mrs. Merkel. The fact that, as reported in the newspapers, you raised your phone with the President of the European Commission asking for respect for Italy made me proud to be a Member of Parliament and a citizen of this country. [[Applause]] To be in Europe, yes, but as protagonists, not paying extras. We are not the students who are a little disco to be wandered and satisfied from time to time; we are a founding country of what was a dream and that we would like to continue to be such and not already a cage or a bond from which to be able and to be free. [[Applause]] I think signs and symbols are important too. My colleagues have mentioned many issues and I do not like to repeat them, nor to waste and waste time. President Draghi, thank you for remembering the forgotten, not only in fact, but also in your speech. Among the forgotten I remember the 5 million Italians and Italians with disabilities. A civilised country cannot have B-series citizens at school or at work. [[Applause]] They were put back in the center, with real money (I read over 300 pages of the document) equal to 6 billion euros, women and special men who deserve something more and not something less. I am referring to the dismantling of architectural barriers in libraries, museums, schools, along the streets, buildings, trains and buses, as well as hundreds of millions of euros invested to offer real work to women and men who do not ask for compassion, nor charity and who feel a wealth for this country. [[Applause]] I am glad that the disability, even in this ambitious plan, has not been experienced, on page 385, as a mandatory postcard to be inserted because otherwise it cannot be done. We have asked and obtained - and I also thank you for this - a Ministry specifically dedicated to women, men, young people and elderly people with disabilities so that they become bearers of wealth and wisdom. The destination of 6 billion euros for blind, deaf and physically and mentally disabled means that this is a country that really looks forward. That is why I thank you, Mr President, and we shall see to it that we are making good use of these funds. [[Applause]] Among these funds, EUR 300 million (not substantially remembered by anyone, but particularly important to me, although it is - I repeat - EUR 300 million out of EUR 200 billion) is intended to strengthen the National Agency for the Administration and the destination of assets seized and confiscated from organised crime. The fight against mafia, camorra and 'ndrangheta is not done in conferences, but in this House, convincedly, with money and laws. [[Applause]] As far as we are concerned, wherever there is a mobster there is war, because there are no next generation, future, work, beauty and freedom if you don't get rid of mafia blackmail, camorra and 'ndrangheta. The fact that this plan for the use of funds has also found room for this sacrosanct battle is a source of pride for me and for the whole of Italy. [[Applause]] Then there is another challenge, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which is the reform of bureaucracy. This disaster can be a historic occasion, but it will take courage. In Italy the yards last on average, from beginning to end, 815 days, that is almost a year more than the European average. We are penultimate in Europe, in front of Greece alone, for length, bureaucracy and delays and penultimate also for times of payment of the companies that win a contract. There are colleagues in this House who are filling their mouths with the word Europe, but only when it suits them. I want to be part of a government and live in a country where companies and businesses are paid at thirty days, as provided for in the European directive, and not at ninety days. [[Applause]] There can be no Europe à la carte which is good in some cases and is bad in others. So we call on the European directive on late payments to give oxygen to our businesses. And let us also remember and invoke (and here we will see the friends, the companions of adventure of the Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars if they will give you the support that we announce in this House today) the zeroing and suspension of the Italian legislation on procurement, replaced by the much more effective and efficient European legislation. [[Applause]] We Azzer the Italian procurement code and use European legislation. Long live Europe on payment times and fast procurement. Let's see if from the benches of the left there will be all this euro enthusiasm even when it comes to cutting some claws, some lengths and some permissions within which corruption hides. Because the longer the procurement process, the easier it is to find a corrupt and corrupter. If we speed up the time on the Genoa model, you will see that they will steal less and work more. We'll see what they tell us. [[Applause]] I conclude here by saying that the League is there. We are loyal allies: unfortunately, someone says to the left. We responded to President Mattarella's appeal, putting Italy first in relation to party interest and if anyone thinks of throwing us out he was wrong to understand. We are here and here we remain proud and convinced to help our country. [[Applause]] President Draghi, we trust Italians and businesses. There was a debate of days and hours on reopenings and curfew. Thank you because those who were able to go for coffee at the bar this morning did it for a choice of courage, for a calculated risk. Rightly, in the last week 4,000 Italians have left the beds of hospitals, 500 have come out of intensive therapies and 3 million Italians have been vaccinated. Let's trust the Italians and trust the companies. [[Applause]] I think that the right to health, the right to work and the right to freedom can and must live together. So, thank you for this ambitious plan, President Draghi. Thank you also for overcoming delays accumulated by someone who, for months, evidently slumbered. So, we got better than the others and before the others. I invite you to trust those who have the courage to defend their ideas, even assuming uncomfortable positions, and to be wary instead of those who always say yes, not for the sake of homeland, but for the sake of armchair. Thank you, President, and live Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u88	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u89	Mr President, a special thank you goes to all those who have worked on this Plan and who will continue to work to give it a correct definition and, above all, a rapid implementation. We need to do things quickly, but above all, Mr President, we need to do things right. This is extremely necessary for our country, for future generations and for our young people. [[Applause]] This Plan, however, was unthinkable until March 2020, in the sense that, fortunately, we had the President of the Count Council, who, thanks also to the commitment of other Member States, managed to convince the European Union to commit itself and to be indebted to all countries in difficulty, such as ours, with a common instrument. This was unthinkable until March 2020. Now there is and this also thanks to the work that has been done before. This is, however, a special, very broad instrument. This is the third time we see him in Parliament: we have seen the guidelines, we have seen the Conte Plan, we have seen the Dragon Plan presented and now we see this version that I would call almost definitive. Unfortunately, in fact, because it is so large but does not present what are the executive projects. We need to be aware of the precise things that will be done, but above all of the places where they will be done, and this, unfortunately, is not yet there. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on this we call for a commitment from the Government to give us the full project with the details as soon as possible, because here we have only the content of the missions and the components, but on individual actions we have very little. [[Applause]] Let's go to something special. We have always expressed ourselves to the Government in a broad way through resolutions, acts that commit the Government and we have never been able to express ourselves directly with things to do in a conditional way because there is not yet a useful instrument, on such a broad program that will last so many years, to commit the Government in a timely and definitive way. In my opinion, this is a shortcoming of our parliamentary instruments. We go further because I am sure that Parliament will have to review this work from here, at least in the budget law. Something will have to come from Parliament because we have to be calm about what will be done and we have to approve above all what will be done. Therefore, I imagine that in the not too distant future everything will pass from Parliament so that there is a definitive approval and, above all, the possibility for Parliament to express itself with precise conditions for the Government. [[Applause]] Mr President, let us come to the subject. In the past "editions" I have expressed myself on three fundamental themes. The environment is, unfortunately, the Cinderella of the Plan because we have to do a lot for the environment. Unfortunately, in Italy we have polluted so much in the previous decades. Now we need a real revolution, and unfortunately, Mr President, I am sorry, there are still not enough elements to say that this transition will take place. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, this is so because in Italy we still have a lot of polluted areas that are not protected and on which there is no commitment to reclamation. Luckily, we talk about Bonifices and I appreciate that, along with all the Movimento 5 Stars. The resources entered are not, however, absolutely sufficient. At last we talk about biodiversity and we appreciate it, but the resources included unfortunately are not enough. We are also talking about the marine ecosystem. Well come; it was necessary to write it; the other time we asked to insert it in the guidelines on the Conte project. There is now, but the resources are not enough. More needs to be done and I hope - given that there will be an additional fund - that a large part of those resources will be used for the environment. In fact, we can no longer continue to mourn the deaths of people who have had cancer because they lived in a polluted area. [[Applause]] Mr President, we must do absolutely more about this. Let us come to the chapter of non-self-sufficiency. Mr President, I really try to trust you because in the previous Plan on non-self-sufficiency there was a part that counted 3.3 billion. Now on the first component of that mission we have fallen to about a billion, but there is much more about the quality of living and social housing. There are about 3 billion more, but people who really need care services, someone who visits them to make them feel good and, therefore, we can't just invest in the brick. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u90	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, Malpezzi, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, No 2, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and No 3, Senator Grenato and other Senators, whose texts are being distributed. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u91	Mr President, the first point I have to make after listening to the debate is that today is a good day; we are not dealing with something to be sorry about. [[Applause]] It's good for Italy. I would also like to remind you that this Senate has been the protagonist in the drawing, through the many consultations made in recent months, through the observations we have taken into account. He will be the protagonist in the implementation of the Plan, therefore, I believe that many of the comments made rightly recall the scarcity of the times that there has been. I have pointed out on other occasions that 30 April is not a media date; it is a date for getting the money right away. If we had decided to present the Plan on May 10, we would have had the money later, I don't know if in June or even after the summer. So, here's the reason for the very tight times. By the way, I never said "I guarantee": it's not my style. [[Applause]] At the heart of the Plan is Italy, with its extraordinary qualities that make us proud and also its historic fragility, on which I believe we all agree. We must now find consensus in order to deal with them and resolve them. This plan gives us the opportunity to do so. The Plan is certainly a design of a project - there are so many numbers, there is so much money in it - but it is also an opportunity to make us reflect on the fact that we must work together, and when I say together I mean not only here, but together with the Government, with the local authorities, with all the Italian people. This Plan presupposes and in fact will create changes; just think about the amount of investment: do you think that Italy remains the same after? No. The changes will certainly have economic but also important social effects, and they can only be implemented if there is agreement, if there is a desire for success, not defeat. [[Applause.]] What is before us is very complex: the reforms, the institutional system, Ministries, Regions, Municipalities, Provinces, and then the real grounding, as they say. I said this morning that corruption, stupidity, established interests will continue to be our enemies and I repeat that I am sure they will be beaten. [[Applause]] ; but there is also another enemy, and it is inertia. I am referring to the institutional inertia that has been rooted in our behaviour also for the stratification of rules that has accompanied the last thirty years. [[Applause]] These reforms will help us to overcome it, and that is why they are so important. Back to the limited time this debate has been able to benefit, there will be time for implementation. Let us remember that the reforms will be adopted with legislative instruments, drafts of laws, delegated laws, decrees-laws, in which procedures of adoption the Parliament will all, of course, play a decisive role in the discussion and determination of the content. So, once again, collaboration between the legislative and executive powers is crucial in this perspective. As a large number of speakers have spoken about the South, I would like to address this particular point. Let's do an account of the resources allocated to the South first. The question is: are there few resources allocated to the Plan? This account shows us that there are not only the resources of the Plan, but the Mezzogiorno has a whole range of resources from different sources of funding. The PNRR and the supplementary fund allocate approximately EUR 82 billion of total EUR 206 billion to the Mezzogiorno, of resources that can be shared on a territorial basis; 40%. Maybe 40% of people don't seem like much. These resources are, however, added to those of the React-EU instrument, which is specifically activated by the European Union to counter the effects of the pandemic crisis. Of a total of €13.5 billion for Italy, €8.5 billion will go to the Mezzogiorno, largely intended to implement initiatives in the field of labour policies and social inclusion, health and research. The areas of the Mezzogiorno will also benefit from the substantial resources allocated by the European Union budget for the Structural Funds 2021-2027 and the funds for rural development and fisheries: together with the corresponding resources of the co-financing from the State budget, the Mezzogiorno will receive around €60 billion, out of €85 billion. These resources will be used to implement actions in many areas: research, innovation, digital technologies, support for the low-carbon economy, sustainable management of natural resources, business system, employment, school, etc. The areas of the Mezzogiorno will also benefit, for the realization of the High speed, the railway line Salerno-Reggio Calabria, from ulterior resources, pairs to 9,4 billion euros, out of a total of 10,4 billion euros. These are the resources found with the budgetary deviation approved by Parliament in recent days, will be included in the next decree-law on the supplementary fund and will be additional to the fund itself. Additional resources come from the Development and Cohesion Fund, with this breakdown: in the programming for 2014-2020, EUR 24 billion are planned for the South, out of a total of approximately 30, planned and not yet committed; in the programming for 2021-2027, EUR 35 billion is planned for the South, out of a total of EUR 44 billion, already allocated and the remainder will be allocated by law in 2022; then there is the reconstitution of resources for 2021-2027 used in the PNRR, for EUR 12.4 billion in the South, out of a total of EUR 15.5 billion, on budgetary deviation approved by Parliament in recent days, which will be included in the next decree-law on the Supplementary Fund. Of course, it will be important to prevent extraordinary programmes from being offset by a reduction in ordinary expenditure, but that being said, what is the lesson? The first lesson is that the South has not been discriminated against in this influx of funds. We will be able to do better, we will try to repair some shortcomings in all this congested sources and funds, but basically the impression is not that of guilty discrimination. The second lesson is that the resources will always be few, if one does not use them. That's the point. [[Applause]] To use them, the reforms will certainly help, but there is really a historical inertia that must be overcome, that is not guilty, but it is an inertia that is seen, especially in the design phase. Therefore, it is also necessary to commit collectively to this and the Government has foreseen in the PNRR the establishment of working groups that can help, at this stage, of course if you like. I come to a few specific points, always on the South. As for the ports, the PNRR previews a component called intermodalità and integrated logistics, to which 3,5 billion euros are destined. More than 1.2 billion, equal to 44 percent of the territorialized total, appear destined to the main ports of the Mezzogiorno for harbor interventions proper said and other participations for the resilience of the harbour structures against climate change. These actions are made from new resources and not through the programming of the Cohesion and Development Fund. Then there are 630 million participations for the retroportuali and industrial areas included in the economic zones of the Mezzogiorno, that they will go to affect, among other things, own on the main logistic and harbour nodes of the South: Naples, Taranto and Gioia Tauro. For Gioia Tauro is moreover previewed in the contract of program the financing for beyond 60 million euros for the connection of the port to the railway regional net. On high speed, I said before the 4,640 billion that will cover the first functional lots of Naples-Bari, Salerno-Reggio Calabria, Palermo-Messina-Catania and Rome-Pescara. A further 4.9 billion are planned for diagonal connections, such as Battipaglia-Taranto and for the upgrading of southern railway lines and stations. It is very important to stress that the additional fund of EUR 30 billion is supplemented by an additional EUR 9.4 billion, which is necessary for the next three lots of Salerno-Reggio Calabria, as I said earlier. On kindergartens, the call for the allocation to municipalities of the first 700 million euros for kindergartens was launched on the basis of a rule of the last budget law. The criteria for allocating these resources reserve 60% of the total to disadvantaged areas, largely those in the Mezzogiorno, the outlying areas of large cities and inland areas. For the next calls it will obviously be necessary to correct any elements of weakness that we will encounter with this ban. The objective - let us remember - is to equip the whole country with a social infrastructure that makes possible the achievement of the European target of 33% of children covered by an essential service for families and for the employment of women. Then there was a question about the criteria for allocating the recovery funds, the famous cantierabilità as a selection criterion. Yes, it is true that Italy has achieved the most significant share of European funds precisely because there is an extent of the territorial gaps to be filled, but it is also true that the European Union is calling for these gaps (territorial, gender, generational) to be reduced by effective actions and effective reforms, and not by a mere allocation of resources. Our goal with the Plan is to reduce these gaps and the estimates on growth and employment that I have given before and that the Plan will produce testify to the goodness of this vision. However, the PNRR - let us remember - has a five-year obligation to use it. It is not an alibi, it is a fact; it must also take into account the historical difficulties of the South in absorbing public funds. So we have to work together on that front, too. I now come to other specific comments. I start from Senator Cattaneo's intervention: I agree with everything she said and, therefore, I have no specific answers, except to point out that her invitation to proceed with the allocation of funds through competitive procedures has been fully accepted, also in the establishment of research centres. There are no more numbers; they are created only if you win the bans. More money for research on an ordinary basis: of course, and this will be reflected in the next budget law. As for the second point, namely that there is a link between economic reforms and policies, monetary and fiscal policies, I have often been reprimanded, having inaugurated a more expansionary monetary policy, for removing the incentives for governments to make reforms. This is an accusation that has often been addressed to me, because it is believed that reforms are only done by choking countries with high interest rates. But that is not true, because there is no relationship between reforms and interest rates, so it is true that we are doing reforms today and we are doing them with zero rates. Why this? There is the PNRR which opens a different season of fiscal policy, fiscal policy at European level. It is a bet that we collectively make across Europe on the ability to spend - but above all to spend well - this money. This bet sees Italy in the front row as the country that has pulled the most on this Fund (perhaps Spain something more). So we will somehow be responsible for the success or loss of that bet. A defeat on this front is serious, first of all because the first ones to pay the price will be us. But it is also serious for the future of Europe, because there will no longer be a chance of convincing other Europeans to make a common fiscal policy, to put money together. [[Applause]] I want to remind you that putting money together and making a common fiscal policy is first and foremost for our benefit. [[Applause]] , because we are one of the most fragile countries in the European Union. Other specific questions are about connection and connectivity. I start with broadband: the government intends to allocate 6.31 billion for ultra-fast networks, broadband and 5G; the government's goal is to bring ultra-wide bandwidth networks everywhere by 2026 without territorial or economic distinctions. In May - it is next - we start the mapping of the investment plans previewed from the private ones in order to identify the areas of the Country that, without participations of the Government, would remain disadvantaged. For these areas there is a state contribution to ensure that no new digital gaps are created between now and 2026. We want to avoid duplication of investment, that market players choose the most suitable technologies for each area, and that, in any case, citizens' choice and competition are protected. Thanks to this new and comprehensive infrastructure we intend to invest to modernise our administration, connect all schools and hospitals, encourage companies to invest and digitise. I have called for simplification several times. Simplification of the rules on public procurement and concessions is an essential objective for the success of the Plan and, more generally, for the relaunch of the construction sector. As far as procurement is concerned, we intend to reform national rules on the basis of the three EU Directives 2014/23, 2014/24 and 2014/64, in order to make them more streamlined than the existing ones, also on the basis of a comparison with the legislation adopted in other EU Member States. To this end, it will take action with a delegation law to be submitted within the current year. Furthermore, we intend to extend the simplifications adopted by Decree-Law No 76 of 2020 until 2023. Regardless of the PNRR, regulatory and administrative simplification is a crucial objective for the Government. The PNRR itself contains many measures to speed up the implementation of the actions. The reforms foreseen in the Plan are then accompanied by indications on timing: another decree-law will be approved in May with urgent simplification interventions, and this work will continue in a progressive and constant way until 2026. A marginal point is about justice, on which Senators Dal Mas and Balboni have expressed different points of view: for Senator Dal Mas we spend too much, for Senator Balboni we spend little. I think they're both almost right. The numbers are as follows: Italy has 3.7 pm per 100,000 inhabitants, France has 3; yet Germany has 7, the United Kingdom has 8.6 and Spain has 5. Even here it is important to invest, it is important to spend and it is also important to increase the staff, but it is important to do it well. So the quality of human capital that will accumulate in the coming months and years is very important. On the bridge over the Strait of Messina, I can only tell you that there is now a report - I believe it has been completed in recent days - which will be sent by the Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility to Parliament for discussion. I have no other particular points to address. I have probably not been able to answer all the questions, but I hope I have answered most of them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u92	I would ask Mr Amendola to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u93	Mr President, on Resolution No 1, signed by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, Malpezzi, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, I am in favour. On Resolution No 2, signed by Senator Ciriani and other senators, I am against it. On Resolution No 3, signed by Senator Granato and other senators, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u94	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u97	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr Draghi, this is a very important day for Italy. Today we are discussing the project that can really allow the country to loosen knots and delays that have choked its growth and competitiveness for more than twenty years and all this is possible thanks to Europe. It is the largest aid plan since the Marshall Plan, which sees Italy as the main beneficiary, because it has set criteria that faithfully photograph the economic and social fragility associated with the pandemic. In other words, the idea has been affirmed that in the face of such a large storm the ordinary instruments of political and monetary management would have proved inadequate. We needed a leap forward, a change of game patterns, sending the rules and dogmas that had negatively characterized the management of the last economic crisis to the attic, at least until the moment when, under its leadership, there was not that vast intervention to save the euro and the national economies. With Covid we had to intervene in the real economy, suspending the Stability Pact and giving countries the opportunity to do new debt. At the same time, there needed to be an impetus for vision, what we find in the missions indicated in the recovery plan, capable of transforming this human, economic and social catastrophe into an opportunity to build more just societies and stronger economies. That is why, Mr President, the responsibility is twofold. We have a moral debt to Europe, because from now on, through the recovery fund, we can rekindle the path towards ever greater integration, through a common budget and the stabilisation of measures for innovation. We must succeed in putting in place immediately those reforms that have been outlined in the Plan. Courageous action is needed to push the economy and increase employment levels. We need a great pact between all political and institutional actors, the social forces, the intermediate bodies, the economic actors, so that the path of reform is not spoiled by biased claims, and so that all of them are reined in order to achieve the objectives. A reform of the public administration is needed in order to increase the quality and ability to spend, through the introduction of figures who, from the same day, know what to do, as well as through a project for training that accompanies public employees at every stage of their work path. A reform of the tax system is needed in order to establish a new pact with the citizens; a tax system finally clear in the rules that, with the reorganization of the various measures, really allows to relieve the pressure, in particular on the cost of labour. We need a reform of civil justice, which restores legal certainty and the right duration of the processes, which today makes Italy lose a point of GDP per year and is the main brake on foreign investors. But it also takes a real campaign for employment, through a training system that favours the encounter between supply and demand, also focusing on technical institutes, vocational schools, that dual system that, at least in South Tyrol, has been of great importance for the levels of youth employment before the pandemic [[Applause]] , strengthening childcare structures and promoting measures to reconcile family and work. Indeed, the level of the employment rate is directly proportional to the welfare of a society. Mr President, it is a good choice to leave the regions, autonomous provinces and local authorities responsible for almost half of the projects in the 60/40 report, which you supported yesterday and today. It is the choice that gives greater guarantees of balance and protects from the risk of flooding a structure too centralized and from those of overload for local administrations. In this context, the strengthening of resources for research, active labour policies, technological innovation, as well as the strong commitment to culture and tourism, the competitiveness of the entire productive fabric, strategic infrastructure and the appointment of extraordinary Commissioners in recent weeks are very positive. We also appreciate the desire not to exclude those projects considered essential for the modernization of the country, but which did not fall within the type of projects that could be financed from European resources. It is, President, an important political signal, of those who do not want to limit themselves to exploiting European resources, but intend to include them in an overall reasoning on the future of the country. Now, Mr President, the hardest part comes, but also the most exciting. You said that in that language of frankness that distinguishes you and we will be with you in this, to simplify the rules, to write the reforms, to ensure that not a single euro is lost. We must do this and in the meantime we must push the vaccination campaign as far as possible to ensure that further relaxation of restrictive measures can take place from here, including by putting in place instruments, such as the one we have started in South Tyrol, which can bring us closer to normality. Today we write an important page. The Group for Autonomies (SVP-PATT, UV) votes in favour of the PNRR and wishes you well. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u100	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it was the National Recovery and Resilience Plan that constituted the beautiful casus that led to the crisis of the Count Government and the birth of the Government led by President Draghi. Intellectual honesty wants an answer to the following question today: Was it worth it? Has anything changed? I think that, for those who have read the text of 9 December of the previous Government and those who have heard President Draghi's speech today, the answer is clear. Much has changed, but I am not referring to individual additions or modifications; I am referring to something that was not there at the time and that is today: a soul, a direction, a vision. This is evident today in the world debate, in the European debate and must become the subject of discussion between us. It is not a fact linked to the international press: it is a bit provincial to look at the international press and to think that it is the repository of truth. However, the feeling that the future in Italy has returned in good hands is an element that exists in the debate of international leaders, in the markets and in the expectations towards our country. In view of this, Madam President, there is an objective fact: the recovery plan is not one, but two. You may wonder how this can happen. In fact, alongside the 200 billion that are somehow channeled by Europe - President Draghi in his reply also gave a technical lesson, as well as political, on the value for the future of this investment - there is a more or less similar figure, which is never mentioned, that Banca d'Italia estimates to be in the deposits and current accounts of the savings of Italians (businesses and families) who started to save from the first day of the pandemic. This is a figure that travels between EUR 170 billion and EUR 200 billion. It is as if the resources were double: on the one hand, the 200 billion Europeans, but on the other, a totally Italian recovery plan blocked by fear. Recovering words of confidence, Madam President, is therefore also an economic priority. Recovering a climate of trust also passes by symbolic gestures, such as not arguing over a curfew time, but taking note that it is essential to proceed with the expansion of reopenings, because this leads to investing the money of Italians and attracting the denari not only of companies, but also of tourists. This element is a milestone in the history of our country. After that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have just arrived in this House and you have not been able to taste all the references to how many times we have written history in this legislature: once a week during the previous three years some ministers made a post saying that they were writing history. This has been achieved by both the Count 1 Government and the Count 2 Government. It was enough to be applied to social media and there were always some ministers: the first was a former minister who said that he wrote history because he was transferring the competences of unity on hydrogeological failure and on school building to the respective ministries; then someone wrote the story overlooking a terrace and abolishing poverty with the income of citizenship; then someone wrote the story with the most disparate measures. I don't think anyone's written the story in three years. It is certain, however, that few have studied history. The 1920s of the last century began with a terrible pandemic, the Spanish, which has made more deaths - hopefully - than the ones that will eventually make the coronavirus, but due to the inability of the ruling classes have produced two elements: the crisis of the shaky democracies of the time and the economic depression culminated in 1929, at the end of that decade of the 1920s, in one of the greatest tragedies of contemporary and recent economic history. I would like us to be aware that no one here can write history simply because he makes a decree or a plan, but that there is the awareness of having to show up for the appointment of history with the awareness of those who have learned from the lessons of the past. In this sense the Draghi Government is an element of trust for our country, but it must also grasp the problems that we have, because - attention - nothing is taken for granted to anyone. Think about what has happened in the European Union over the last 12 months. In 2020, in April, the European Union seemed to have grasped the value of the restart and that the United Kingdom, with Boris Johnson, who was then also in a moment of personal difficulty, had hardly understood anything. But what happened after a year? The vaccination campaign has also seen the success of the British in relation to the European Union, and it is heartfelt to me that I am Europeanist to see how the vaccination campaign has become a commercial for those who support Brexit in relation to the poor functioning of the European Union. The story changes quickly, and also that of our country. If we take the compass and go back, on 27 April 2016, there was a government - I know something about it - that seemed destined to have consent for years. In April 2017, the President of the Council, Mr Gentiloni, seemed to be the point of reference for a balance of broad understanding for years. In April 2018, it seemed that a government led by Mr Di Maio should be made with PD as support. In April 2019 it seemed that the Count 1 Government could not do without Salvini's leadership. In April 2020 no one could touch the Count 2 Government. In April 2021, I believe that there is a government leader capable of grasping the strategic value of a long-term project and not of a horizon that devours political characters. [[Applause]] That, at least, Mr President, is the hope that I would like to make them come to an end. History has given us an important opportunity to be able to say that the European Union serves, that Italy has a Government that thinks of future generations and not of future elections, that we can finally go to international newspapers not because we have the wheelchairs hidden in the warehouses that do not serve or because we have the malfunctioning Chinese fans, but guaranteed friends of friends. [[Applause]] We finally have the opportunity to go to newspapers all over the world like those who preside over the G20 with a post-pandemic vision; like those who have something to say about the European Union that will come, even now, but even more so after Angela Merkel leaves, and at a time of great tension for France, which is going towards a difficult electoral campaign. We are the ones who can restore enthusiasm and confidence if they try, Mr President, to put their words into practice. You said that honesty, intelligence and the taste of the future will prevail over corruption, stupidity and established interests. We all agree on honesty against corruption; on intelligence against stupidity, De Gaulle called it a vast program, but it is still a fascinating and suggestive challenge; artificial or natural intelligence, we are all with her. The real turning point, however - in my opinion - comes from the words of President Draghi is the one relating to the taste of the future against the interests constituted. This is the true soul of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is said - as the President said - to the children who can aim to study in the best places with the best teachers. It is said to businesses that they must not be afraid to challenge the future, because they can play it against the culture of income. But it is also said to politics that perhaps the time has come, for once, to have a wider horizon, to seriously think that the taste of courage and the future is stronger than those who in recent years have always thought that they can move forward with the culture of income and with the fear of tomorrow. Good luck, Mr. President. Italy Viva announces the vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u103	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, Mr Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, despite your justifications, I believe that no one can deny that we are discussing and voting on a Plan that Parliament does not know. The Government certainly knows this; the Heads of Delegation of the Parties know it; the zealous bureaucrats of Brussels know it, but the Parliament of the Italian Republic does not know it, which is forced to vote it in a closed box in accordance with a procedure that I believe has never been so demeaning for its status. Let's say this, President Draghi, not out of love for polemic end in itself and not even to defend the role of the opposition. We say this in order to defend the role of politics, the role of Parliament, paradoxically in order to defend also the colleagues of majority, whose embarrassment I imagine, having to vote something they do not know, who could not even read. Some time ago it was said that Parliament was a box of tuna to open. Parliament has become a useless supermobile. President Draghi, perhaps you will be interested in little or even displeased, but the undersigned and the 20 senators of the Brothers of Italy whom I have the honour to represent are very modestly the representatives of the Italian people and are so because they have won free elections in a democratic competition. My colleagues and I, however, will have to say that we have voted for a measure that is worth 220 or perhaps 250 billion, which is in debt to our children's children, without having been able to read, comment, improve, amend. And we will say to future memory that all this happened with the silence of all, except the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause]] Allow me, Mr President - and I also allow President Alberti Casellati - to say that we live in a strange suspended democracy, in which there is such a large majority that we feel entitled not only to restrict individual freedoms, but also to alter the basic rules of the democratic game and that we regard the presence of a coherent opposition force as an annoyance and not for what it is, that is, a guarantee of freedom and pluralism. Turning to the substance of the debate on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we certainly do not want to underestimate or minimize it, we know its scope, scope and importance. President Meloni, in the talks we had, also sent written documents and listed what are our priorities. But we cannot fail to see - for example - that all the reforms that - you teach me, President Draghi - must accompany the Plan are lacking. There is no reform of justice, there is no reform of the tax system, there is no reform of the public administration and, without reforms, this Plan travels with the handbraked. I will then say something that is certainly very against the current, but I think we must take a bath of realism and prudence, because I have heard too many pindaric flights. The recovery plan is certainly a great opportunity for our country, but it is not a magic wand that in one shot solves all the problems of the country. We have at our disposal 220 billion, which has become 250 billion, which we will be able to use over six years; probably the first effects will be felt next year; we have read the growth estimates you wrote in the DEF and we consider them - like all the macroeconomic growth estimates written by governments - very optimistic, and we hope to make a mistake. But we must also - for the sake of truth - remember that, in the face of the 220 billion in six years of the recovery plan, in twelve months we have already spent 180 of the budgetary deviation and the results, or rather the not results are before everyone's eyes, President, including the fact that much of those resources is still firm to the Ministries because the implementing decrees are lacking. [[Applause]] Before we take care of the recovery plan, then, let's take care of using the resources that we already have and that we can't spend. You, President, have explained to us that this Plan must serve to renew, to change, to modernise the country, all things that we share and that we hope will happen. Allow me, however, to say something else: before changing Italy, you have to save it and, in order to save it, you have to restart it and, in order to restart it, you have to reopen it, certainly in safety, with the rules, but you have to reopen. Otherwise, President Draghi, on the ground of a destroyed economy and society, neither will the billions of the recovery plan work. President Draghi, I acknowledge that I have reminded you that there is a very important piece of Italy that has suffered terrible restrictions and sacrifices and that it simply can't and can't stand anymore. We are close to that very delicate and dangerous point where the social drama and the economic emergency are even at risk of disrupting the health alarm. This great piece of Italy was told to be patient, one month after the other, because the turning point would have arrived. In October it was said to make sacrifices to save Christmas and then, at Christmas, other sacrifices were asked for awaiting January, when the refreshments would arrive. But then there weren't even any refreshments. It was said that the vaccine would arrive, but neither did that; when it arrived, it arrived late and with the dropper. It is clear that you cannot remain indefinitely without your work, your shop and your occupation, nor answers, refunds and vaccine: in short, without anything. [[Applause]] President Draghi, the most extraordinary thing, always in terms of realism and pragmatism, is that all these people ultimately do not ask for refunds, or, better, ask them why they are useful and must be there. He does not ask for the income of citizenship or to become a navigator, despite Minister Orlando: he asks for the simplest and most honest thing in the world, the only thing that really works, that is to go back to work. In fact, it is only with the work, from the humblest to the most prestigious, that one can contribute not only to the realization of oneself, of one's family and of one's own community, but also to rebuilding hope and confidence in this country and a possible normality that is as important as the money of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. President Draghi, time is almost over. We cannot indicate our priorities, because time has passed and we have not been allowed to do so. We would have directed the resources - I say briefly - to the unconquered, the silent sufferers and those who still believe in merit and talent; certainly not to the benefit of those who believe that the future is conquered by catching the lucky ticket of the lottery of receipts, because with this mentality the country does not really go anywhere. Finally, we are accused of being superficial and populist, but what is serious and far-sighted about a curfew at 10 p.m. that hits our tourism to death? I leave the answer to you, President Draghi. In spite of everything, the wrongs and mistakes, we will continue along our path, which is that of an opposition without discounts and prejudices. We are not the ones of the much worse, so much better: we are the ones of the tricolor and we will continue always and anyway to cheer for Italy, because at least this freedom for sure you will not be able to take it away. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u106	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, every story, like the one we are living today, has its beginning. And, if we are here today to discuss the 248 billion euros total that Europe makes available to our country, we certainly owe it to the valuable negotiation work of our delegation that last July 21, after difficult days of negotiations, has contributed decisively to the birth of this extraordinary instrument of 750 billion euros to save the countries most affected by the Covid. It is an instrument that marks a decisive change of pace for Europe too, which has become the home of all. The recovery, in fact, is a great opportunity for Italy, but it is also a great opportunity for Europe. It is a unique opportunity that we have to be able to really move towards positive solidarity integration, putting in place a permanent policy of sharing, which implies that countries know how to keep their debt under control, but making sustainable, through robust growth, what they are. In this way, that Stability Pact can be transformed into a true sustainability pact, in this case environmental and social. President Draghi, I have no problem saying that the agenda you have outlined is the democratic agenda, because it is a European agenda, which puts women, young people, human capital, the environment, innovation and reforms at the heart of modernising the country. [[Applause]] I understand that other forces are more difficult to claim this affinity and this common vision. They are, among other things, those forces that have been hesitant and also very contradictory towards this Plan and that, for example, have not approved it in Europe. This is also because, most likely, they are the forces close to Orban and the Fidesz party, forces that in Europe think that helping countries like ours is a mistake. We never changed our minds. We are for Europe and this is the Europe we want. The PNRR is the challenge of the future and the policy that is the challenge of the future is the policy that has the courage not to pursue the easy consensus: here and now and the immediate result. In short, it is politics that knows how to take on the challenge of this time, which is the time of reconstruction. To get the country back on its feet and build opportunities, in fact, from work to training, it takes time; a longer time than that dictated by the electoral deadlines, which seek, in fact, the easy consent. The difference between populists and reformists is that. The populists always put on the field a vision dominated by the anxiety of having to ride a fear, of having to plant a flag; the reformists look not only at the emergency, but put in place a more comprehensive vision to give answers to the future. Mr President, allow me to appeal to the responsibility of all political forces, so that we can talk more about PNRR and less about the collections of signatures in order to contest the measures approved by the government to which we belong. [[Applause]] It really is not possible for battles to be waged on issues that are already resolved, because they are resolved in the way in which the norm is written and in what has been said in the directing booth: it will be decided together, on the basis of the data, according to what you, President Draghi, called - and it's okay for everyone - the calculated risk. So the measures will go hand in hand with what the risk will be, because we want to open up so that we do not close down anymore. [[Applause]] Mr President, the political horizon of the government forces responsible for leading the country at this stage cannot be reduced to the next twenty-four hours or to the weekly polls. If the PNRR is the challenge for the future, it is clear that we need to have a longer look. The PNRR discusses the coming years. It is, however, the beginning of a path, which puts at the centre a method and a trajectory that must be applied, from now on, to all the economic measures that this Government and this Parliament will also face. In fact, we believe that the future is really moving, as well as from ecological and digital transitions, from those three priorities that we have put at the centre: young people, women and the Mezzogiorno. A country cannot grow, in fact, if it is not able to include and give opportunities to everyone. Mr President, I am proud to say this: the Democratic Party has strongly called for the conditionality clause on all projects to promote the employment of women and young people. This indicates the desire to build a stronger and fairer society, where everyone can participate and contribute to the construction of growth and well-being. Over the next few years we will have to give the country even more kindergartens than those foreseen by the Plan, more full time, more measures for the birth, in a country that no longer makes children and where women are forced, too often, to choose between motherhood and work and where young people are precarious and without any support to carry out their projects. We will have to be able to invest in human capital, job creation and active policies to be able to stay within the changes that are imposed by this transition. Mr President, I would like to remind you of a subject which is particularly dear to us: our young people. We really don't know what this pandemic is leaving in them. The data tells us that they need support, closeness and help to prevent a psychic discomfort that is spreading. We need to intervene soon. This is also an emergency and the government must take care of it. Parliament will be at your side in this respect. Another important issue is that resources must be well spent. Mr President, you said that in your reply. In order for these reforms to become a real opportunity, they must be done well with the centrality of Parliament, which will clearly be vigilant and will be in the name of this great phase of change. We'll do our part. For the Democratic Party, the centrality and role of Parliament at this stage is even more decisive because reforms really serve to remove the obstacles that have slowed down investment in recent years. Mr President, reforms must also be removed from political and electoral pressure. We need a step change to the current challenge. We will be there; we consider the Next Generation a success of those who, like us, have always believed in Europe and we are glad that those who did not believe in it today have changed their minds. The Government was born to bring Italy out of the crisis. I remember very well the applause which this House reserved for you during your inaugural speech when you said that unity was not an option, but a duty guided by what unites us all, love for Italy. A little more than three months have passed since that day, but I think we need to remind all of us in this House of the commitment we have been called upon to share a responsibility, because sharing a responsibility does not mean freeing your hands whenever you want and when it is more convenient; it means trying to overcome the differences for the good of the country together, because nobody saves himself. We owe it to our young people. That is the real challenge. I therefore declare the PD Group's vote in favour of Resolution No 1. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u109	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the pandemic we repeated so many times that nothing would have been the same and we also repeated many times that nothing had to be the same as before, in the sense that normality had been one of our problems and so the simple return to normality was also a problem. The pandemic has broken down and deepened even more the great problems of our country, its fragility, inequalities and structural problems. Mr President, just now you said in your reply that Italy is at the centre of this Plan with its beauty and fragility. Our fundamental task is not to return to that normality that has been the cause of many of our problems, but to try to make a big leap forward. I believe that is the mission, Mr President, that we must all assume. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan is a historic occasion for Italy, an extraordinary occasion. Someone rightly wanted to remember that we conquered it and it was not easy. It has not been easy to convince Europe and have made this great step not only for the resources brought to Italy, but for the change that has taken place in Europe anyway. This is an opportunity which we must proudly claim, which is wanted not only by the delegation, as my colleague Mr Malpezzi said, but also by this Parliament which has believed in it. This opportunity is certainly a great step forward, Mr President, and we cannot waste it. You spoke of Italy's beauty and fragility: that's when we have to implement this great step, and implementing it means to believe it to the full. There are some issues that have been repeated during the debate: the strategic axes, which I believe are fundamental, which are closely interwoven. I am talking about the ecological transition and social inclusion, which go hand in hand because intervening on environmental emergencies means doing a great deal of work to reduce the inequalities and disadvantage of so many people. On this front, resources have been allocated (almost 70 billion on the ecological transition), but we must know that, beyond the pandemic, which is closely linked to environmental emergencies - we keep forgetting it always - in order to achieve the objectives that Europe has set itself, and therefore we have given ourselves, we must all make a great effort together to implement resources, to achieve fundamental and central objectives, to ensure that they can not only be valued but further increased. We must use all the other resources, those provided for in the budget law and in the other instruments available to us, to move on that path. There is no plan and then the ordinary administration, President. All our work must aim for this purpose. More needs to be done on renewables, otherwise we will not be able to achieve those goals. More must be done to reduce emissions. You have rightly spoken of tax reform: we must also use environmental taxation, we must say this forcefully, another instrument that we must put in place; that too is a very great reform. There is no time to lose, President: our children remind us of it, but they remind us of the data and above all the fragility of our territory. So, more renewable, clarity on hydrogen and especially hydrogeological failure, where we have to do a great deal of work, as well as on the reclamations and polluted sites. We must understand that this is indeed a great mission before us, and on this we must measure all our experiences and our responsibility. Not to mention our natural capital: the beauty that you recalled of Italy is the beauty of our culture, the beauty of our historical places, the beauty of our nature and biodiversity. We must invest in this because from there comes the possibility of recovering all natural resources and social inclusion. So not only do we need to have clear conditionality on this, which must be transversal, but we need to have clear in mind how we operate. Yes, we may need to increase the funds on one side or the other, but here too, Mr President, if our mission is to intervene to remove gender, territorial and generational inequalities, we must make all our interventions consistent. If you, Mr President, listen to me, I am happy to say this: Parliament has no intention of abdicating its role, which is to direct, monitor, monitor and make its contribution. The resolutions that have been adopted are precious gold, because we need them precisely to do this work. Not all have obviously been taken up and recovered in the Plan presented today, but we must have the obligation, all together, to implement that Plan and to recover it, not only in the supplementary fund, but also in all the other extraordinary funds, in the ordinary funds and, of course, in the other European funds that are there for the projects and also in the budget law. A great deal has been said about the South, about territorial disparities. The President-in-Office of the Council gave us a proper summary of all the resources in his reply. Very well, but on the South we have to be very clear. There are works that had already been financed and that were already in our investment plan: I think for example of Naples-Bari, which was put in the Plan. But those resources cannot be used for anything else. I propose that we not only need high speed, but we need a great European ban to buy quality trains. This is certainly working for the South, because this is useful to bring back the South and to bring tourists. There are projects that we can do very simply, using resources. In this sense, the reform of public administration is fundamental and central, because it has been depleted and the turnover block has deprived it of qualified people. We need to make a great reform in order to introduce young professionals, because we need a great ability to design. Then there are the essential levels of performance (LEP), which must be our guide, to overcome territorial gaps and of course all other social gaps. We have the opportunity to make it and work together, with a great sense of responsibility. This is not just about the government, Mr President, it is not just about Parliament, it is about the whole country and its ruling class. Both we and the Government must dialogue and engage, because everyone must feel responsible for a rebirth project for Italy. For all these reasons... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u112	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, just over a year after the health and economic storm that swept our country and the whole world, today we are at a crucial and decisive turning point, for the present and the future of our nation. The nation is not an abstract concept, but it indicates the sum and synthesis of all our lives, of all our communities and our activities, of all those who have gone through a truly important historical moment, from the Second World War to today. They have done so by really paying in terms of loss of affection, work, income and hope. To all those who have resisted with patience and dignity we have the duty today to give answers [[Applause]] , to indicate the horizon of serenity they deserve. Just as it happened forty years ago after the Second World War, today the ruling class has to trace the way out of this crisis and the drama of the pandemic, and finally bring the country to see the stars, to quote the supreme poet, father of our language and national consciousness, on his eighteenth anniversary. [[Applause]] It is a role full of great responsibility, that of the institutions: it will not only be a role of recovery, but above all of rebirth, because it is a real tragedy: 120,000 deaths of Covid in Italy are really many. This is a role that we must show that we deserve, as elected representatives of the citizens, to give voice to their demands and to protect their interests in this real meeting with history. The year 2020, as we all know, has changed the life and sociality of each of us. The economic data are dramatic and we know them all; they are numbers, but behind the closed activities, the closed shops and the places of work lost there are the real lives of the people, the projects on which today unfortunately for many Italians the darkness has dropped. It is a scenario of war, apocalyptic, so much so that even our language has changed in this particular period, because we all talked about war. Today, however, we are here to talk about post-war and hopes, because what we approve today is really the greatest plan to relaunch republican history. [[Applause]] A few weeks ago, in a previous speech in this House, I made a comparison between what is now the Next generation EU, then the recovery fund, and what has been in the past years, after the Second World War, the Marshall Plan, which is a great investment plan to get out of the misery of war - precisely - Europe. It is an absolutely important comparison to be made today, because in the same numbers and in the same economic quantity we can absolutely say that the recovery fund today has a greater scope for investment than the Marshall Plan itself. Above all, there has been a change of pace: finally a debt that has mutualized all the European countries; this has also been an important turning point. That is why today the document we approve has a very, very important, unique and extraordinary historical scope, which can truly represent the flywheel, the development, the rebirth, the recovery for our country, if used to the best. The opportunity that is given to us today is that of the reforms, which can no longer be postponed in our country [[Applause]] ; the reforms that we must make for future generations, because today we are transferring debt to future generations and therefore we need to transfer good debt to them. That is why implementing the reform plan is very important. That is why, in all these months, as Parliamentary Group Forza Italia we have worked on the proposals, and now finally many of them are contained in the Plan and in these reforms. It's important the work we've all done together. Among the proposals that today are the cornerstones of the political programmes of Forza Italia we have the reform of the public administration. President Draghi, you spoke of inertia in your reply: today we must deburocratise the country. [[Applause]] , and we must do so with an important reform of the public administration. We then have the reform of justice, which will have to intervene on the excessive duration of the trials and aim to reduce the heavy burden of judicial arrears. There are also steps needed to revise the regulatory and procedural framework. There is also tax reform: even if it is not contained in this Plan, it is an important reform for us for the tax relief of households and businesses. [[Applause]] That of the IRS is a battle that we will carry out in Parliament. Thank you, Mr Draghi, for our proposals have been accepted, such as those for the extension of the superbonus 110% to 2023, which is now an essential tool for relaunching construction. Thank you, President Draghi, for the proposal on loans paid at 100% for the purchase of the house by young people: this is also an opportunity that we have proposed to help the family and the birth rate in our country. With regard to other issues, such as the IMU and the cadastral extimes, the principle is valid at this time when money is given and not taken; therefore, we are opposed to any increase in the tax burden. [[Applause]] We will be the guardians of the real estate of our Italians and we will not allow absolutely any raising of taxes on the house for the Italians. Let us turn to what has been our battle, the Mezzogiorno chapter, of which so much has been said in the debate in this House. To the Mezzogiorno of Italy the Plan allocates 82 billion out of 206; over 40% of the entire Plan, a sum even greater than the clause we know of 34 percent. The scope of the Plan is important and is a unique opportunity for the Mezzogiorno, even in this case greater than the chances that the Mezzogiorno has had with the famous Cassa del Mezzogiorno and with the investments that have served so much - and so much will serve these too - to reduce the gap not only with the North, but with the rest of Europe. For the Mezzogiorno of Italy is an important proposal and it is above all a moment to finally demonstrate the great capacities and quality of our country. It is a challenge, that of economic recovery, which is important. Politics is really being played in this House today, with this plan, the challenge for the future and all its credibility is also being played. That is why we are here not only to bring our proposals, but above all to demand Parliament's central role in this plan. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to refer to a point you have made in your speech in this House: 'In all the programmes which I am presenting to you today, there is also and above all the fate of the country'. The word "destiny" seems to put fear, because it makes us think of the obscure and unpredictable. Instead, today we need to take the hand and direct the destiny of our country. With this Plan we can absolutely do this by directing today's choices, not only of national policy, towards the best realization of the common good. I would like to close with a particular quotation. Precisely on fate Nietzsche wrote: "Our destiny exerts its influence on us even when we have not yet learned its nature: our future dictates the laws of our today." [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u115	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to what might be called a historical passage for someone, but that essentially for all Italians is a passage of hope, of security and of the future. I will tell you, Mr President, that the tone you have used, a little resigned, in the management and description of this passage of the PNRR is very welcome, because we must always remember that we are faced not with a mountain of money to spend, but with a great responsibility towards the Italians. [[Applause]] This responsibility needs to be accompanied by a frank and pragmatic approach, convinced and determined, humble but authoritative. This is essential for the results to follow. The Italy system - and we know it well - was not well put before the Covid-19. Then we have to ask ourselves some questions: why have we fallen behind? What didn't work? What rules didn't work? What solutions do we need? President Draghi, in the past years we have seen almost philosophical debates on reforms, which have not come to any result, often and willingly discussing more on the list of problems than on why they have been created. We must be aware that, in the drama of this circumstance, today we have a unique responsibility and opportunity: to reform the country and give a perspective of development and growth to the next generation; but growth must be financed. Let us be careful that the resources that we are going to spend today must then be returned; this entails a great responsibility. Let us also remember that there is no freedom except in work. With these resources we must create work for Italians, growth and development. Only in this way will we have given the next generation not debts to pay, but the certainty that, with our work today, we will guarantee them the future well-being, like what we have received from previous generations. [[Applause]] President Draghi, these circumstances call us to our duty of sacrifice and commitment for the future and for the next generation. We must, however, be very clear: there will be no other opportunity to reform the country, to rewrite the rules, to recover the distances within Italy, which in the years of waste have not been able to fill. This is the time to remove laces and laces and we have told ourselves too many times: this is the time to do so, there is no excuse for maintaining the status quo. If there are rules that need to be changed, let's change them. We must, however, be very careful, as we will be (and we ask you to be, President), so that the reforms do not end up in the hands of those self-referential apparatuses that over the years have committed their self-preservation to reform, producing a regulatory body too often asphyxiating and suffocating for the whole country. A few weeks ago, among the hearings we held as Commission 14a (there were more than 300), there was one in particular that I would like to mention, that of Professor Sabino Cassese. I found myself once again in agreement with him and he agreed with the positions I expressed: in Italy we even need negative legislation to lighten the regulatory body, where the same has become no longer a guarantee of compliance with the rules, as bureaucracy should be, but a mechanism that asphyxiates and does not allow the economy to develop. He must act decisively on this. We are in the government to be determined in these reforms, and that is obviously what we expect. Do we need to revise the rules, perhaps those of prior authorisation? Let's go see them again. Do we need to review the clearance rules? Let's go see them again. There can be no free zones and there can be no taboo when it comes to reforms. Mr President, from here we must start again, even before we talk about the amount of resources available. On this I would like to make a point to Parliament: too many speakers have heard about the amount of resources available and not about the way in which they are to be spent, about the rules that must be the basis of expenditure. [[Applause]] We know in fact that there is a knot in the capacity to use resources, which does not make the same effective at all latitudes of the country. On this the commitment of the Government must be maximum and determined. For the success of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan it is necessary to be determined and concrete in the course of the necessary reforms to recover the gap, starting from the productive activities. Mr President, in recent months Italians have been led to trust in the Plan: we cannot afford to betray this trust. We must give the Italians confidence and have it in the same, to raise the country. We called for the necessary reforms by name and surname and wanted them to be included in a clear and determined way in the motion for a resolution that we will shortly be voting on: the reform of the public administration, aimed at facilitating the simplification and effectiveness of administrative action; the digitisation of services; investments in human capital and in generational replacement; the reform of justice, aimed at ensuring the reduction of the times of the processes and at disposing of judicial arrears, and the reform of the tax system. The latter, although not included in the PNRR, is an integral part of the government strategy and we want it to be implemented from A to Z, to tell the Italians that the resources we are giving them will not then be forced to return them with tears and blood along with taxes. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is a need to make the most of the areas of public-private collaboration. This is a country that has always developed public economies, but which struggles to undertake market economies; it is necessary to put in synergy public and private capacity so that we all get back together, without one being an obstacle to the other. It's a strategic plan for the whole country. It is a Plan in which the principles of spending and investment are written in black and white, in the North and in the South, at the end of which we want to finally be able to fill all the distances that still exist in Italy, not only between North and South, but also between center and periphery. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if the South grows, the whole of Italy grows; if the North does not start again, the whole of Italy does not start again. [[Applause]] To achieve this we need our greatest commitment, I repeat it again; we must break the bureaucratic incrustations and wipe out the repeated examples of inability to spend that over the years have given us an unhappy record, that of seeing Italy in the ranking of countries that have not been able to spend the European funds allocated. Furthermore, we need serious monitoring, which is not asphyxiating, but without the plan in any way failing the objectives we have set ourselves. Paraphrasing what Cavour had to say with respect to the Court of Auditors when it was set up, we want a strong and independent monitoring and monitoring of the Plan, which guarantees Parliament and the Italians with respect to the success and action of the investments put in the field, in a determined way. Before we also collected some statements that tried to provoke us, but we do not notice, because we are at the Government in a spirit of service towards the country. If someone thinks they can provoke us in this sense, we tell them nicely to be serene, the government we are and we stay for the interest of the Italians, we care nothing else! [[Applause.]] To you, Mr Draghi, instead of telling us to move forward with a determined step, starting with the reforms. We do not return back, but we cannot even allow ourselves to remain firm in doubt about what needs to be done. We have moved quickly from the "C" to Europe's desire to be protagonists and hold the reins of our future firmly in our hands. On this basis, Mr President, we are going to vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 and to hope that this PNRR will have its future and have the recovery of Italy firmly in our hands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u118	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, Mr Draghi, you spoke of this Plan as: 'a work which has greatly benefited from the action already taken by the previous Government'. These are words that we cannot fail to listen to with satisfaction in a world like that of politics, which often ignores the value of gratitude, gratitude and respect. You have also, personally, apologised for the tight deadlines - you have called them that - with which the PNRR has arrived in Parliament. Unnecessary excuses for those of us who have experienced the government crisis of January that still remains unexplainable even in the light of his own words. They are unnecessary excuses for a delay that has a father, a name and a surname, a way of understanding politics as a personal fact, on a stage of cynicism and vanity. [[Applause]] A kind of policy, a way of doing politics that we hope is finally set. His words of gratitude please us, President, because behind this recovery plan is the recent history of our Movement, there is the accepted and won challenge of Giuseppe Conte, who in that distant March 25, 2020, as the leader of a group of eight governments, within which were also France and Spain, wrote a letter to the European Commissioner asking for more European resources and a common European debt to finance those resources. [[Applause]] Everything seems easy today, it all seems obvious, but inside this PNRR today there is a bet of the Movement in which no one believed at first. A bet like all the bets of the Movimento 5 Stars: difficult, very difficult, almost impossible, if not for dreamers, concrete and generous, who in recent months are carrying out a global process for an economy capable of taking care of people and the planet. [[Applause]] This is the Movimento 5 Stars and you today, President Draghi, have had in delivery, symbolic and virtual, this capital of reputation and credibility, that we have earned with the previous Government and that has its roots in disinterest and in the common good. However, we have always been very clear about disinterest and the common good; we have entered this Government, gathering the invitation of the President of the Republic for a twofold purpose. First, to defend the money of the rebirth of Italians from the claws of some lobby and from the appetites of the famous Italian consortries. [[Applause.]] Second, to realize a great European plan for a new and different season that leads towards a development finally fair and fair. From this point of view, President Draghi, not everything convinces us of this Plan; we are not convinced by the policies of the sea, we are not convinced by the policies on air quality and the reduction of fine dust, we are not convinced by the weak policies on sustainable mobility, which our President Pesco also spoke of, we are not convinced by the policies on the energy transition of our companies and industries, but above all, after studying the Plan, President Draghi, we would like to know how much it will be to the South. I know, it's a very debated theme, and we don't want to get on the carousel or into the ballet of numbers and numbers. We do not even go to see, Mr President, how many of the figures listed today would still have been destined to the South without the pandemic. [[Applause]] Let's not make a difference. It matters to us, Mr President, that you have spoken today of indisputable reforms and increased spending capacity. You see, President, you said that in this recovery plan, social values and people's lives are at stake, a good sentence. We add that the lives of the weakest citizens, of women, of young people, of those who have courageously chosen to continue living in the Mezzogiorno, of those who have not escaped from the Mezzogiorno, are at stake. [[Applause]] Let us recognize this, then, not as a matter of political division, but let us openly recognize the role that the Mezzogiorno has played in determining the shares of European resources that have gone to Italy. [[Applause]] We have very much appreciated the indication of the essential nature of the reforms and from this point of view we allow ourselves to give you an indication, President: pay attention to the calls of the recovery plan, because where there will be no guaranteed quota in the Mezzogiorno, the money will end where there are greater design capacities, i.e. in the North and it will be the end of everything. [[Applause]] It will be a train lost forever, because the South deserves more, let's say it without controversy, and for debt to be good - to use its terminology - and spending is productive, good debt and productive expenditure must fall on companies and citizens of the South, through a guaranteed share in calls and investments. [[Applause]] Only then will the South be able to return to growth and re-launch itself, because otherwise we will not be able to move on from words to deeds. Finally, from a commitment that we want you to make today on the South, I move to a commitment that you have made in this House during these hours: the extension to 2023 of the superbonus 110%. [[Applause]] In fact, in order for this measure to release all its potential, it cannot be excluded from the extension to 2023. Parliament asked him to do so, the trade associations, trade unions, ANCE, Confession, asked him to do so, and he is asking him to do so all over the country, and you have committed yourself and for us your personal commitment in this House remains in the act and becomes law. [[Applause]] The superbonus stands for one part in the PNRR and the other in the laws of the state. I conclude with this consideration: this Government has embraced the turning point of the ecological transition and there are always strong and clear political signs about this. Our proposal, already made to the House, is that a special bicameral committee be set up for the recovery plan, so that the recovery plan is a train on which everyone can get on, but above all our children, who ask nothing but a certainty of tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u120	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u121	FACTORS (Misto-LEU). Dear President Draghi, you have dropped this PNRR into Parliament, you have imposed it in an old and bankrupt technocratic way. There are a lot of problems, the money to businesses and high speed commit a quarter of the resources, while to territorial health only 3,7%, seven billion in six years. The pandemic didn't teach anything. I wonder where those who called on the ESM for health care ended up and dropped a government for it. The Plan archived the circular economy, providing still investments in combustion energy, biogas and biomethane, archiving the environmental impact assessment. This is a plan not for sustainable growth but for modernisation for unsustainable development. The South, once again, is humiliated and forgotten, despite European indications. As for the school, there is virtually a reproposition of the bad good school, with A-grade schools and B-grade schools. In fact, choosing better teachers will mean that someone will get the worst teachers and therefore inequality - and I say this to the champions of social equality - will be taught on the desks of elementary schools. In addition to the few resources devoted to basic research, there are many other problems that we have not been able to discuss because you, Mr Draghi, did not allow us to debate. We had the plan yesterday. On 30 April this Government will present in Europe a Plan never submitted to the public debate and - I repeat - transmitted only yesterday to the Senate. It could have been the great last opportunity for a true rebirth of our country, a change of paradigm; instead, again, like its Government, it is the restoration of a system of lobbyists and ancient interests, without courage and vision. President Draghi, tomorrow's money will not be enough if the ideas remain those of yesterday or even a century ago. I therefore call for the vote against the motion for a majority resolution of the Italian Left component and I would also point out to you, Mr Draghi, (maybe you ignore it and pretend not to see it) that there is an opposition also in the left side of this House, while you are talking - obviously you like it better - only with the opposition on the right. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u123	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u124	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, the government estimates that the investment envisaged in the plan will have a significant impact on the main macroeconomic variables in 2026, the year of conclusion of the plan. Gross domestic product will be 3.6 percentage points higher than trend and employment will be 3.2 percentage points higher; the investments foreseen in the Plan will also be able to make improvements in the indicators measuring regional disparities and female and youth employment; of course - and that would not be the case - even if we lost 8.9 percentage points in 2020. It is an injection of capital never seen in the country's economy, equal to two Marshall plans of reconstruction. Yet in 2026 we will not even be halfway back to the previous situation. So, we're trying hard to turn back, and that's the mistake. We would have had the opportunity to learn from mistakes and change the pattern and we are wasting it. Our goal is only to return to the day before the pandemic, without understanding the need to radically change the development model. President Draghi, there is another issue on which I would like to draw attention. I would like to read the exact words and concerns expressed by prosecutor Canton about the risks of Recovery too much pressure on simplifications and liberalisations: the risks that crime can take advantage of are enormous, because it is passing the idea that you have to spend without putting too much problem, considering the rules as always of hindrance. Deregulation is the situation that mafias prefer because they can put in place their ability to convince, i.e. intimidation and corruption. You have to have the courage to say it clearly: recovery is a great opportunity for the country, but it can become a huge risk and it cannot be the opportunity that the mafias wait to take their revenge against the institutions. The thing that worries me most is the ability of the new mafias to camouflage themselves, no longer with the coppola and the lupara, but with the tie and the grisaglia. A mob that's less worried about public opinion... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u126	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u127	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, in my speech in the debate just now I had finished my time. I wanted to conclude by explaining why I will vote against this Plan. I should like to add a few more comments. I would have liked to say that the Plan is not an adequate response to the pandemic, which does not deal effectively with the causes that have caused it, caused by the degradation of the environment. I'm just going to give a few examples. The simplification of the EIA: it is referred to in the Plan of a deep simplification. We have to understand each other. We all want to achieve renewable energy production targets, but at the expense of what? The devastation of our territory? I find that unacceptable. The EIA is a garrison that must be improved, responsible for companies and not eliminating necessary procedural steps. According to some estimates reported in the Plan (so I read exactly what the Plan says), considering the current rate of release of licences for the construction and operation of wind power plants, it would take twenty-four years to reach the target country; while, with reference to the target of photovoltaics, it would take one hundred years, without the modification of the current regulatory framework on the EIA. And you think simplification should be about the times? No, you don't! This could lead to an acceleration in the consumption of terrestrial and marine habitats, which would no longer allow their regeneration and, therefore, to the detriment of natural capital. And you know that. Resources are being allocated to the Po: that's fine. What about the other rivers? Only 43 percent of Italian water bodies and only 20 percent of those lakes reach the state of good quality. Therefore, we need a national programme for the renewal and maintenance of rivers, lakes, lagoons and wetlands. On the agrovoltaic, I wonder how it is possible, in a country like ours, with a very high consumption of soil and an agricultural sector that is an excellence, to decide to allocate agricultural land to the production of renewable energy. In this way, it takes away the soil from quality food and degrades the ecosystem services of our extraordinary Italian soil. [[Applause]] Finally, I am very concerned about the repeal and revision of the rules that fuel corruption. With the amount of funding that will come you have to keep your attention high and not introduce regulatory simplifications in relation to... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u129	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u130	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, when I denied the trust of the Draghi Government, it was precisely because I strongly rejected the cultural structure of your Premier. I rejected his training and his action as a perfect central banker. His ruthless skill does not align with the pain of a society that is crying with dignity and to which you will impose other destructive social reforms. Italy will no longer be the same, because you are disassembling it of its virtuous characteristics. When the Governor of Italy asks to put in the Recovery and Resilience Plan the lives of the Italians, he says the truth. The lives of Italians, the savings of Italians, in exchange for poisoned loans. You are once again selling out small and medium-sized enterprises. The lives of Italians are invisible to his cold gaze. They are lives suspended between shamefully expensive bills and mortgage payments to be paid with the fear of losing the house, the shop, the shed. The lives of Italians lie in the generational challenge between parents and children for a real job contract, where the rights are hung by a thread. President Draghi stands as a guarantor in Europe because his curriculum offers abundant market and neoliberal guarantees. I told you once before: you embody that culture that has replaced the lives of women and men with numbers, rights with accounting balances. His world of reference cannot intercept the social divides, because his field of vision is financial and not political; the recovery fund is a bad deal; it is a betrayal. Green is a semantic trick, other than eco-sustainability! The life of the Italians, which she puts into this plan, has no full rights; it is rather mere existence stuck in a world drawn with the compass by the elite. Do you want more market in energy and motorway concessions? But don't you just have the bins you sold from Britannia forward? To Benetton and the other Atlantia partners you will now give 400 million refreshments, in spite of the frustrations of the restaurateurs and other economic operators at collapse, who for her, however, are zombie companies. The former head of Vodafone, Colao, took McKinsey to write a digital agenda that will progressively push workers and professionals out of the labour market and will be the world of automation and algorithm. This plan is the perfect net after entangled the lives and future of Italians. You can also guarantee in Europe, but put in your pocket a memorable page of the novel "Furore": The streets were teeming with people who were thirsty for work, ready to do anything for work. And the big companies and banks were digging the pit with their own hands, but they didn't realize it. And anger began to ferment. Do not abuse the patience of Italians; you may regret it bitterly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u132	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u133	ONE (Mixed). Mr President, President Draghi, during today's long debate there have been many criticisms of you regarding the allocation of funds between North and South regions. In his reply, after a long passage dedicated to snogging numbers and trying to deny the narration made by the many Groups present, there was a passage in which she, almost en passant, reproached the ruling class of the Regions of the South for the inability of the past and also the immediate present to manage the funds available so far. It was undoubtedly a legitimate statement, even if, in my opinion, slightly populist or - if we want - old-fashioned. President, what made me, however, smile bitterly was that, following this statement, a number of applauses were lifted from one part of the hemicycle, especially the one on its right, and from many colleagues, who perhaps, having lost their memory in the immediate future, have forgotten that several regions of southern Italy, starting from Abruzzo, Molise, Basilicata, Calabria, Sicily and passing through Sardinia, are currently administered by Centrodstra. President, you have a great opportunity. Given that the commitment requested by the majority groups is to transmit the National Recovery and Resilience Plan to the European Commission, to ensure the full functioning of Parliament, as well as the loyal cooperation with the Regions, Provinces and local authorities, I would ask you to attach to the Plan also a recommendation to the Presidents of those Regions to act better than in the past and, therefore, to guarantee to the citizens of those Regions and those Municipalities the correct release of the money due. You have also taken another step in relation to the overlaps of rules that have occurred in the past. In this case, too, yours was a sacrosanct statement. Too bad he did not deal with the fact that the applause always comes from the representatives of that part of the House who, eye and cross, see about twenty years per person in these classrooms. [[Applause]] Therefore, they should also, perhaps, remember that if there is such overlap, it is because they themselves have drawn up and consequently voted on those rules. Mr President, I am voting for my abstention, which is not entirely opposed, because I would like this money, thanks to the cooperation of many good colleagues, even if not all, to finally reach the Italian citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u135	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u136	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). President Draghi, the Plan you have presented to us is inadequate or even counterproductive in environmental matters. It anticipates the weakening of the procedures of environmental impact assessment, is disinterested substantially of the circular economy, does not take the opportunity of an overall plan of reclamation and safety of the territory, allocates few funds to increase the public transport and reduce the smog in the cities. Its plan is then dangerous in the prospects of reform: it involves recruitment in the public administration without competitions, it prevails the advice and the task forces, it weakens the anti-corruption and anti-mafia garrisons [[Applause]] ; Prefigures the restoration of the prescription - colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, have you read it? - ante reform Bonafede and even attempt to influence the direction of prosecution; it relieves public administrators of responsibility by means of shields in the event of gross negligence. The Plan announces new privatisations, fewer controls and even more competition; it provides aid for medium-sized and large enterprises, but it disinterests small producers: craftsmen, traders, workers, the unemployed and only devotes very little money to research and the fight against inequalities. It is also characterized by generality and lack of clarity. Parliament was teased with the deposit of a modified plan yesterday, a few hours after the presentation to the House. President Draghi, you are carrying out the task assigned to you in Europe; you are laying the infrastructure, economic, regulatory and financial foundations for the few large companies in Northern Italy to the detriment of everything else. Since you did not respect Parliament, I will not have it for you and I will tell you what everyone here thinks but they do not have the courage to tell you. President Draghi, your plan is like the battleship Potëmkin of fantozziana memory [[Applause]] And you're mortgaged our future on a foreign warrant. The Alternative There is not losing sight of it and will resist this project. That is why, unlike other forces, who are bickering but then aligning, we shall vote against the majority resolution and in favour of the alternative we have tabled. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u138	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u139	LANNUTTI (Mixed). Mr President, days ago, the 'Finncial Times', one of the most liberal in European newspapers, advocate of the market without rules and of the primacy of finance over the economy, classifying the crack Lehman Brothers and the cyclical global systemic crises that have shattered millions of jobs, the destruction of savings deposited or invested in banks as accidents of history, not distinguishing reality from commonplaces, appealed to Italy as a criminal of Europe, causing serious offense to Italy and the Italians. To pay homage to you who, as President of the ECB, ordered the closure of bank branches causing untold deprivations, increased infant mortality and terrible suffering of the weaker population (old, Greek women and children), the "Finncial Times" allowed yourself to mark Italy with the epithet of a delinquent. As reported by the newspaper in its titles, Italy, which has always been seen as the young criminal of Europe, has now become the European model, between the disinterest of politics and the masochism of the parties that have ruled the country since 2018. It is added that Draghi will present his Plan to Europe, made of structural reforms, considered fundamental and so on, and that Italy will manage its biggest budget deficit since the beginning of the 1990s and for now the financial markets, often concerned about public debt, remain indifferent, a sign of confidence in the new Premier. Between clichés and mystification, do not forget that the hard negotiation to obtain the recovery fund was carried out by the Count Government, defenested by a conspiracy of the Palace; that the spread on government bonds, today attested to 107, with the previous Government had dropped below 100 points; the average listing of some ten-year BTPs depreciated between 10 and 18 points (e.g. the BTP at the rate of 2.80). In the prestigious games of magician Silvan, the Government representing the European model has made disappear the version of the PNRR, as already mentioned, not to mention the superbonus, formidable instrument of recovery of the economy together with the fiscal credits, which, instead of being financed until 2023, has been replaced by the usual written promises on the sand, the absence of the minimum wage and quota 100, the usual raid of funds destined to the South and research. In short, propaganda surpasses the reality and the lack of funding for social. I shall conclude by reminding the fearless forgetful of Don Abbondio's maxim, so if one does not have the courage, he cannot give it to himself, and I announce my abstention vote. Thank you, Mr President, and good luck.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u140	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, Malpezzi, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u143	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to ask for a separate vote on the motion for a resolution No 3, by voting separately on each paragraph. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crucioli, do you request the separate vote of each paragraph, both of the premise and of the disposition part? CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, only in terms of commitments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u144	As a request for a split vote has been made, I would ask the House to give its opinion on this point. I put to the vote the request for a split vote on motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Crucioli. It's not approved. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u145	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-320.ana.u146	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 28 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.05 a.m.
