ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes. I inform you that, at the request of the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group, the sitting will be suspended until 10.30 a.m. to allow a meeting of the Group to be held. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 10.34 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to Article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Stefano Candiani for the offence referred to in Article 595, third paragraph, of the penal code (defamation by means of the press) transmitted by the Tribunale di Roma Section of the Judge for preliminary investigations on 13 November 2019. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Assembly, by a majority, has proposed to the Assembly that the statements made by Senator Stefano Candiani constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Paroli, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u5	Mr President, as you have just pointed out, the Rome Court, the Chamber of Judges for Preliminary Investigation, sent to the Senate, for the purpose of a resolution on the indisputability, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, a copy of the acts relating to criminal proceedings for defamation by the media, originating from a complaint lodged on 21 January 2019 by Mr Antonio Giudice against Senator Stefano Candiani. Object of the complaint is a press release by the then State Secretary for the Interior, Senator Candiani, published on 15 January 2019 on the Facebook platform, through the official page "Lega Sicilia Salvini Premier" titled: Candiani responds to the protesters: "Happy to give the honest Sicilians the certainty of a party made by loyal and serious people" (Candiani). Such a statement, forwarded to the press and published also by other online newspapers, would contain, according to the plaintiff, offensive and defamant expressions against him. The Junta considered, as you recalled, that the contents of the act of inspection union presented in the Senate by the League Group on 27 June 2019 are suitable to make the functional link required by the Constitutional Court for the existence of the prerogative of inindacability, since there is a substantial correspondence between the intra-moenia act, i.e. the aforementioned question, and the extra-moenia act, i.e. the declaration on Facebook. Mr President, it is also noted that, on 6 November 2020, the President of the Senate referred a copy of the acts of civil proceedings against Senator Candiani himself, sent by the ordinary court of Gela, concerning the same facts which were the subject of the aforementioned criminal proceedings. However, for a more analytical presentation of the arguments on the basis of the deliberations of the Junta, I would like to refer to the written report already submitted in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u6	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u7	Mr President, I would like to say briefly that on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I fully support the report, on which I voted in favour, among other things, in Giunta, tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Paroli. I would just like to point out to the House that, in addition to the considerations made by the senator, here we are in the presence of a macroscopic non-susistence of the crime. Just read the statements accused of Senator Candiani to realize that this is a legitimate exercise of the right of criticism: political dialectic and nothing more. Therefore, in our humble opinion, the magistrate should have closed this procedure and not passed on the acts to the Senate. That is why we shall vote in favour of Mr Paroli's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u8	Senator Balboni, I did not interrupt you, but more than a speech under discussion, I think you anticipated your explanation of vote, which was scheduled for later. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u11	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, one cannot but agree with the assessments made by the Junta, just illustrated by the rapporteur, Senator Paroli, but also with the intervention of Senator Balboni. The case of Senator Candiani deserves particular attention, because perhaps it is one of the most emblematic, if not the most particular, because it is absolutely evident that the prosecution should not even have been initiated. This should make us think about what happens often and the number of procedures that we are going to check today, especially in terms of the expression of opinions. Sometimes, in fact, accusations are made against parliamentarians without even checking whether prima facie can exist, as in the case of Senator Candiani, in which there is a clear non-susistence. So, I repeat, it is an emblematic case that must make us think and perhaps it should also be the subject of a debate, which, moreover, in the Junta - I mean - we have already dealt with. I therefore announce Italy Viva's vote in favour of the proposal presented by the rapporteur, Senator Paroli.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u13	Senator Rossomando, already a member of all the committees of the elections and parliamentary immunity of the last legislatures, has the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u14	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, thank you. In Junta we had some experience together in the last parliamentary term. I am very brief, although I have actually voted in favour of almost all the reports we are debating today, because the case in our examination, of all those we have dealt with, is the most clear and has given rise to little debate on the subject. A few thoughts are suggested to me by Mr Balboni's intervention and now by Mr Cucca's intervention: we know very well that, even in the light of the well-established decisions of the Constitutional Court, we normally go to see if there is a correspondence in the declarations made extramoenia of various kinds with the statements made in this House. In this case, rightly, we have all, or almost, agreed that we cannot go so far as to censor a free expression not only of the right of criticism, but of the role of the parliamentarians themselves. I would add that in order to pursue prosecution it is clear that it is not enough that there is someone who is said to be injured or offended and this is the classic case. Mr Candiani will excuse me if I take advantage of this argument to say that this is precisely one of the points that we propose in the reform of the criminal process, in the sense that the Democratic Party has put forward some proposals, one of which is aimed at greater constraint on the subject which must support the request for referral back to trial. The prosecution, as it should already be, must be reasonably certain of the possibility that the accusatory plant may lead to a conviction. I took advantage of this case because he's one of the most serene. Therefore, my colleague will forgive me, but it is exactly one of those cases where peacefully - and even more so when the reform of the criminal trial is approved - no request for referral to trial will be made and criminal prosecution will not continue. With all this in mind, I am clearly in favour of this report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u17	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, my fellow Senators have already made their views clear. These are more than anything opinions expressed within a political formation, which have nothing to do with the profile of defamation, as has already been said by Senator Balboni and Senator Cucca. Therefore, we are certainly voting in favour - as we have already done in the Junta - of the indisputability of the views expressed by Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u20	URRARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to announce the Lega Group's vote in favour of the report by the rapporteur, Mr Paroli, but I would also point out that, while respecting the division of powers between the judicial authority and the Senate, by not entering into the substance of the criminal proceedings covered by the document in question, it must be stated that the offence alleged by the plaintiff appears, in the present case, manifestly unfounded. Even remaining in the wake of the constitutional powers of the Senate, the functional link between the act extra-moenia and the act intra-moenia appears evident and undoubtedly, with consequent configurability of the prerogative. The statement that was the subject of the complaint in the present case is mentioned in a press release by the then State Secretary to the Ministry of the Interior, Senator Candiani, published in January 2019 on the Facebook platform, through the page Lega Sicilia Salvini Premier, entitled "The Senator Stefano Candiani responds to the protesters of Jesuits: "Happy to give the Sicilians honest the certainty of a party made by loyal and serious people!'........................................................................................................................................................................................ These statements are part of the natural exercise of the right of political criticism which constitutes the proprioum of the parliamentary function. A Member who does not indicate illegal situations, who does not publicly denounce illegal events, would fail to fulfil his or her role and functions. The right of political criticism was, in this case, exercised also through a question submitted by the Lega Group in June 2019, in which significant situations of illegality were denounced in the conduct of political-electoral activities in the territories in questions. The contextual coincidence between the intra-moenia act and the extra-moenia act in the present case exists and even the temporal mismatch between those two acts is not suitable to affect in any way the functional link, therefore on the prerogative, whose existence is therefore evident. I would like to point out that the reason for the temporal mismatch between the complaint (January 2019) and the act of inspection union (June 2019) is due to the fact that at that time Senator Candiani was undersecretary of State, and as such it seemed completely inappropriate from the point of view of the institutional correctness that he presented the same act of inspection union as senator. From this point of view it is clear that the prerogative of insindicability exists and that any contrary argument would end up impacting on the political role and the function of public denunciation intrinsic to it, with an emptying of the political and parliamentary functions dangerous for democracy and also for legality. The phenomena of illegality must be denounced publicly and not hidden, especially from those who have political responsibilities, and those who escape this burden become in some way complicit in the criminal phenomena that they determine on various levels, including that of electoral fraud. Senator Candiani's denunciation is courageous, fully legitimate and covered by the prerogative of insindacability. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u23	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this case on 19 May 2020 the Junta voted by a majority on the grounds of indisputability, but with the contrary vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. I would stress that it has been a year since then and this is very serious because it makes it clear how little attention this House places on speeding up the process because, in the meantime that any decision will be taken here today, the right to justice has already been compressed pending our deliberations. When I hear in this very Chamber that we need to shorten the time frame for justice, I think that we really do not want to do that. Those are empty words, like those I've heard so far. With regard to the work - I have to say this in parenthesis - of my Group in the Junta, I can say without fear of denial that our objective, both in the Junta and in this House, has always been to study the cases thoroughly, to deepen all aspects, taking care to ensure the constitutional guarantees in all those cases where the fundamental values of the person involved are really at stake, guaranteed by our constitutional framework and international charters. Speaking of which, I'm opening another parenthesis. I would like to stress that, despite the efforts made and the commitment made, Senator Gasparri, President of the Junta of Elections and Immunities - I do not know if he is present - in all the years and with all the cases we have dealt with has punctually and carefully avoided the appointment of a member of the Movimento 5 Stars as rapporteur of any case. [[Applause]] What are we talking about? We're saying empty words. I ask why such a thing should happen, and I think this is a legitimate question. The President of the Council of the elections and immunities of the Senate of the Republic must give an answer. The commitment was there. In particular, in the matter of inconvenience in the Junta the activity of the Movimento 5 Stars has always been based on a careful objective examination, looking at the specific situations, the peculiarities, like - for example - in the case under consideration. There is a peculiarity - as many have said - and it seems that the complaint comes from a sort of political revenge or from a repugnance for local political events. If there has been a political revenge - I do not doubt it - this is ascribed to other arguments and internal disharmonies of the political groups, which belong to problems of a different nature to be resolved elsewhere through normal ordinamental protections. The instruments currently in place to protect the freedom of expression of every citizen, whether senator or not, exist and are more than adequate. Expressing opinions and political criticism, today in Italy, fortunately, is absolutely not a crime. The rapporteur also notes the absence of the crime, as it is clear that Senator Candiani was exercising a simple right of fully legitimate criticism on that occasion. Why, then, did Senator Candiani appeal to inindacability and, above all, why should we grant it? Do we want to indulge in the habit of a privilege? Would it not have been more appropriate to point out the non-existence of the crime in front of the ordinary judiciary, which is the competent body to decide? Furthermore, let us bear in mind that whenever we appeal to the indistinguishability provided for in the Constitution, the corresponding right to justice of the citizen is squeezed down and this is serious. This is the reason why indistinguishability can only apply when there is a close functional link with parliamentary activity and is not extendable to the mere fact of being parliamentarians, thereby causing it to lapse from protecting the independence of the powers of the State to obnoxious privilege. Precisely for this reason, the Movimento 5 Stars is the only one who always renounces immunity. [[Applause]] We want to show that we can do politics without privileges and have confidence in the institutions and present ourselves before the magistrate when it is necessary, as all ordinary citizens do. [[Applause]] On the basis of the above, the requirements for the application of inindacability have been discussed. I must point out that I have analysed the documents and that there is a complete lack of the requirement of the time link that enhances the functional link with parliamentary activity. The only relevant activity found is an inspection act filed by the League and only announced by Senator Candiani much, but long after the contested fact (over five months later). What temporal bond can there be? In conclusion, we have found that in an absolutely macroscopic and objective way the necessary requirements are completely missing to grant the required indispensability. However, we are blindfolded in the face of so much evidence because we still want to exploit the privilege of being parliamentarians and this is serious and wrong. I would like to end by saying that coming out of the limits identified by the Constitutional Court has as its sole consequence to degrade the prerogatives in question, because it transforms everything into a personal privilege and, therefore, into a sort of unacceptable impunity, while it is up to the ordinary judiciary to assess the matter. It is for these reasons that, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stelle, I am voting absolutely against the proposal of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u24	Before I put it to the vote, I am obliged to recall that the indisputability, pursuant to Article 68 (1) of the Constitution, is not a matter available to individual parliamentarians, but has been placed by the constituent Fathers to defend and protect the body. Therefore, no one can decide to give up or not to give up the inindacability. I say this out of fairness. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Stefano Candiani constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u25	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for a resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of civil proceedings against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso Civil Procedure No 1608/2019 RG Transmitted by the Court of Agrigento on 20 February 2020 and received the Presidency of the Senate on 6 March 2020 The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly that it consider that the fact, for which the civil proceedings against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso are being held at the court in Agrigento, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that, therefore, in this case, the constitutional guarantee of insindacability as referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Balboni, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u26	Mr President, the story stems from some statements made by Senator Giarrusso in a public demonstration held in Porto Empedocle on 31 March 2019. On that occasion the senator pronounced some sentences deemed defamatory by the actor Filippo Caci, who sued him before the civil court to claim compensation for the damage. Senator Giarrusso pronounced the following sentence: We know who is behind Caci and not only Ida Carmina and the citizens of Porto Empedocle. We know that in the Anti-Mafia Commission, in Parliament and in the Government. As is well known, in the event that a declaration made extra-moenia can abstractly supplement the hypothesis of the crime of defamation, it is necessary, according to settled case law, to invoke the inindacability of the same, a correspondence with parliamentary activity carried out intra-moenia. I fully recall the report, which has been approved by a majority by the Junta - as you, President, have just mentioned - in order to reconstruct the parliamentary activity of Senator Giarrusso in the matter of anti-mafia within the institutions of the Senate and the anti-mafia Commission; as well as to conclude that - in the opinion of the Junta and the undersigned rapporteur - there is in this case a clear functional link that leads us to propose to the Assembly the insatiability of the opinions expressed by Senator Giarrusso, in the case that occupies us, pursuant to Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u27	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u30	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, on behalf of the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. I am voting in favour of Senator Balboni's proposal, remembering that in circumstances of this kind the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities does nothing but apply the law very strictly, so much so that it is never a matter of decisions taken lightly, without having previously discussed and examined and without any confrontation. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u31	Colleagues, there's too much background noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u32	Please allow anyone who wishes to listen to Senator Cucca's speech. CUCCA (IV-PSI). As I said, Mr President, the decisions of the Council are always the result of a close discussion within the Council, of a study of the acts and, above all, of the verification of the conformity of the decision adopted with the constitutional precepts, from which we have never deviated. It would therefore be appropriate not to make a flag of "rejecting at all costs" when it is convenient, as happened to some members of the Group who say they are always against, not respecting the constitutional dictation. I want to stress this: we are not protecting anyone, but we are dedicated to applying the constitutional precepts, which are in this sense the prerogatives of the Members of Parliament. When the Constitution has changed, we will all adapt. As long as the Constitution remains the current one, I will continue to respect it, protect it and defend it because it is one of the tasks I assumed when I entered this House. As Senator Balboni explained, we are in the presence of a fairly clear and obvious case. The arguments have been explained, already brought to mind by Senator Giarrusso, and we can only share the proposal formulated by Senator Balboni, who has already found the Group of Italy Viva-P.S.I. also favorable inside the Junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u35	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a little attention, not because of the value of my speaking skills, but because of some of the thoughts that I would like to encourage in all of us. We are rightly living in the third millennium, with certain media possibilities and where situations are very different from those that existed when the Constitution was written. We are talking about how the presumption of innocence can be protected in this very media society and of great overexposition: let us rightly discuss what the culture of guarantees is. What we are considering here is a case which is based precisely on a line of border reflection because, as Mr Cucca has said and as other colleagues will say, the rule on inconvenience defends not a privilege, but the political function that can and must also be pushed towards political denunciation. The Constituents, who left the period of fascism, wanted to protect this: good. Here, however, given the necessary in-depth analysis - and for due consideration I mean that we have also seen the videos of the meeting in question - we have a Member, among other things, of the Anti-Mafia Commission, who uses as a topic of political controversy - I have reviewed the video - the call in question of another person, saying: In the Anti-Mafia Commission we know what's behind it. I am very clear that we will vote against the report because we are against the trials in the streets. [[Applause]] You don't do trials in the square. You don't try people with rage and it's not that, since you're a Member of Parliament, among other things, member of the anti-Mafia Commission, you can do it or, better, if you do it, you take responsibility for it and in a judgment you will enforce all those criteria of criticism, opinion, excess that the law and jurisprudence allow. What we cannot allow is to say that, since you are a Member of Parliament, you can make a trial in the streets, without any kind of limit, brake or stake. For this reason, and not for others, we shall vote against the report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u38	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, the story we are dealing with here stems from the fact that the plaintiff would have seen in the words spoken by Senator Giarrusso the desire to generate in public the distorted idea of political activity by the same person, in an illegal manner, with alleged collusions with organized crime through the reference, more or less explicit, with information that the senator would determine as a Member of Parliament and a member of the Anti-Mafia Commission. Senator Giarrusso, through the memories deposited, spoke of misrepresentation of the exquisitely political discourse in which any reference to the plaintiff was purely marginal with respect to the topic dealt with, i.e. political dynamics pertaining to the Municipality of Porto Empedocle. On the subject it should be noted that the exercise of the right of political criticism must be the subject of trial, while the Giunta exclusively has the task of assessing the existence of the prerogative of inindacability on the basis of the parameters and criteria enunciated by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. In my Group's view, these parameters are lacking, the functional link between parliamentary activity and non-moenia declarations does not appear to be evident in a simple promotion of a regulatory provision to the fiscal law of 2019, which does not refer either to the submission of an amendment or to another act not having a legislative nature prior to the declarations made. Furthermore, the actual lack of correspondence between the statements made by the plaintiff and the defensive argument must be verified. This can only be assessed in the context of proceedings. Therefore, in the present case, there is no basis for recognising the prerogative of inindacability and, therefore, we shall vote against the report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u41	[[Brusio.]] Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr. President, I can't feel myself... [[Brusio]] Besides, you're on the phone. I can't even feel myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u42	I think Senator Grasso is right. There is a need for a lower background buzz. Those who do not want to listen may also go out; but those who are in this Chamber must allow them to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u43	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Actor Filippo Caci was essentially accused by Senator Giarrusso of carrying out his political activity illegally and with alleged collusions with organized crime. The sentence that was pronounced during a piazza event in Porto Empedocle, on 31 March 2019, is very indicative, and is as follows: We know who is behind Caci and not only Ida Carmina and the citizens of Porto Empedocle. We know that in the Anti-Mafia Commission, in Parliament and in the Government. I remember that Ida Carmina is the mayor of Porto Empedocle. In this way Senator Giarrusso has endorsed the suspicion in the public of possible investigative elements of which the Senator would be directly informed for his role as parliamentarians and member of the Anti-Mafia Commission. He defended himself by saying that the mention in Caci is absolutely marginal, while he makes the name of Caci directly - so it cannot be marginal - and it does not appear that Mr Caci has ever been the subject of attention in the anti-Mafia Commission. Therefore, I do not believe that there is any dissemination of parliamentary activity, precisely because Mr Caci has never found any place or attention in the parliamentary work of the Anti-Mafia Commission. I therefore believe, on behalf of the member of the Mixed Group who is recognised in Leu, that it is necessary to vote against the proposal received to believe that there is an indisputability of the views expressed by Senator Giarrusso, in line with what has already been voted in Junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u44	I would like to point out that the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity is to be voted on by a simultaneous ballot to consider that the fact, for which civil proceedings against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso are being held at the court in Agrigento, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and that, therefore, the constitutional guarantee of incontrovertibility as referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies in this case. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u45	The next item is the debate on the document: In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Laura Bottici for the offence referred to in the third paragraph of Article 595 of the Criminal Code (defamation by the media) Transmitted by the Court of Massa on July 30, 2020 and received by the President of the Senate on August 10, 2020, the President of the Senate is requested for deliberation. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Assembly, by a majority, has proposed to the Assembly that the statements made by Senator Laura Bottici constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Balboni, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u46	Mr President, here too - as you have pointed out - we are in the context of a request for inconvenience. The fact concerns the opinions expressed by Senator Bottici during an interview issued in September 2013 to the local TV News 24 station, in which it would offend the reputation of the directors and the mayor of Carrara regarding their relations with marble entrepreneurs and with reference to the investigations initiated by the Massa Public Prosecutor on the so-called escape to the quarries. The question concerns the contribution on extraction due to the Municipality of Carrara in proportion to the value of the marble. Thanks to an agreement signed on July 29, 2009 by the trade associations and the municipality, this value was set at a figure lower than the actual market value producing an advantage for marble entrepreneurs and a damage to the municipal coffers. In the interview that was the subject of a complaint, Senator Bottici gave the following sentence: In the only speech I did in the Senate on this subject, I said that often the relations between the administration and the local entrepreneurs who deal with quarries are pseudo-mafia - this is the incriminated word - this tells you how I can think about the subject. The examination of the activities carried out by Senator Bottici intra-moenia revealed not only the existence of the functional link, because Senator Bottici had already dealt with these matters in her institutional activity, but also the correspondence, almost textual, between what she said intra-moenia and what she said extra-moenia with the sentence above. For this reason, the Junta approved, by a majority, to propose to the House the unmistakableness of the views expressed by Senator Bottici in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. Let me add, Mr President, that, from a careful examination of the sentence indicted, I believe that - even in this case, as in the case of Senator Candiani - we should have declared that there was no place to proceed and the judiciary should not have committed this House to asking for it to be dealt with. The term "mafia pseudo," in fact, means falsely mafia. Pseudo comes from the Greek and means false. Therefore, there is absolutely no content damaging in the sentence in question. Senator Bottici probably meant para mobsters, but, in concrete terms, said pseudo mobsters. There is, therefore, no offensiveness in this statement. That's why it's worth concluding for insincability. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u47	I declare the debate open. Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u48	Mr President, I have asked to speak because I say very clearly that, to hear the speeches made by Movimento 5 Stars in the two previous cases, which always concerned slander under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, we would want to abstain, even if this principle is not recognised. Let's say that we all decide to abstain - League, Forza Italia, Brothers of Italy and Democratic Party - on the basis of what you support, following your instructions, Senator Bottici would most likely go to trial for defamation. I am telling you honestly that you would also want to behave in this way, after what I have heard about the previous cases. [[Applause]] First of all, there is the suspicion that you could give up the reference to Article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution. Faithful to your lines, you could have done this! There is a suspicion that you wanted to bring this matter to the House knowing that, however, there would be the center-right, the Democratic Party and Italy Viva, who would defend the principle. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u49	Senator Romeo, I invite you to address the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u50	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We would defend the principle, seen and considered that, unlike you, between hatred and principle we choose the principle and choose values. That's our difference! [[Applause]] So, Senator Bottici, I'm sure you'll thank us. [[Applause]] We will vote in favour because we are consistent! We're not as haters as you are! [[Applause. Happy protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u51	Senator Croatti, I think you've expressed an opinion. [[Happy Protests]] Let's try to keep a minimum of decorum. Senator Romeo, please come in. Senator Croatti, I called you back to order. Please calm down. [[Happy Protests]] Let's give Senator Ginetti the floor. [[Happy Protests]] What's the matter? You can't understand what you're saying, so it's useless for you to get excited. Everyone stay in place. Senator Quaestor intervened. The friends of the League settle down. To Senators Five Stars I say it's not their turn to talk. Senator Romeo spoke and I think you should have the courtesy to answer only when it is up to you to speak, and not all the time. Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Happy Protests]] That's enough, really. We're talking about an inconvenience.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u52	Mr President, it seems that the cases of inconvenience within the meaning of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u53	Senator Licheri, you who are the Parent Company, please help me.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u54	SANTANGELO (M5S). What about Romeo? Isn't that Romeo? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, it seems to me that you intervene all the time out of proportion. Senator Romeo had surgery when it was your turn. Now you don't have to talk. Shut up! Please, Senator Ginetti. [[Happy Protests]] Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order. Don't make me do another expulsion. Please, Senator Ginetti. GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, in the meantime, I would like to say that the Junta, in any case which needs to be instructed in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, for the unassailability of the views expressed by Members in the exercise of their duties, carries out a careful examination of the documentation, in order to analyse cases in fact and in law. Therefore, it is not a superficial activity, but often takes a long time to carry out, even with documentary additions and hearings. Often there are controversial cases, but certainly others are also simpler, because we must, however, follow the principles of jurisprudence that have been handed over to us, in particular by the Constitutional Court, with a series of judgments of 2014, 2011 and 2013, which show us exactly how and what principles we must go to verify and implement for each case. There are two in particular. The first is the correspondence between what has been stated by the extra-moenia MEP, i.e. outside the parliamentary classrooms and the Commission's classrooms, with acts typical of his function such as questions, speeches in the Assembly, motions or speeches in general discussion. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u55	I would pray to lower the tone of voice to allow Senator Ginetti to be heard by those who want it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u56	GINETTI (IV-PSI). I was talking about correspondence, not only in words, but in substance, with respect to what is referred to outside, as an act - let's call it - of spreading one's own opinions. Compared to the fact that we are discussing, that is the interview given in September 2013 to the local broadcaster Ttnews 24 by Senator Bottici, it is evident the existence of typical internal acts of the senator herself, that allow us to verify a substantial correspondence of the declarations made and, therefore, to consider applicable the article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution. Let us remember, also in this case, that we are not analyzing a single case for the particular and specific protection of Senator Bottici, but we are fulfilling a constitutional duty to protect democracy, in reference to the indisputability of the opinions expressed by the parliamentarians; not only of democracy, but above all of autonomy in the exercise of the legislative, political, parliamentary function, with respect to other bodies of the State. It is a conquest that has been handed over to us by our constituent Fathers, the founding Fathers of the Italian Democratic Republic, to whom we owe a tribute of thanks. That is why we are called to analyse each case very carefully, not ideologically, but according to the principles of law and the principles of jurisprudence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u57	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u58	Mr President, I asked to speak because I believe that Mrs Bottici is the true spirit of Movimento 5 Stars. However, I am not fooled by the fact that you are one of the 5 Stars and therefore I abstain or vote against your position. It would be absurd, because those who vote against or abstain are against the Constitution. I would like to make it clear to the members of the Movimento 5 Star Group that we cannot defend the Constitution and honesty except through the application of the principles of the Constitution. [[Applause]] I do not think there is an example that fits better in Article 68, which the Constituents wanted, so that the connection with parliamentary activity can be established. I challenge anyone to say that there is no connection to parliamentary activity. As you read in the Junta's proposal, it turns out that the senator in this House has made certain statements. Therefore, if by chance someone abstains, it means that he is doing a dirty political operation; in fact, at the time of the application of Article 68 of the Constitution, each of us is a judge and cannot allow ourselves to be governed by hatred and resentment towards a particular person. [[Applause]] , or have only an interpretation of the preconceived facts, based on subjective assessments. I will therefore vote in favour of Senator Bottici, because this is a statement of the Constitution. [[Applause]] And who's against it is because he doesn't understand it, it's not my fault. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u60	Senator, a colleague of your party has already spoken. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u61	[[Brusio.]] I would ask you to respect those Members who have to speak. [[Brusio.]] I don't understand you, Senator Ronzulli. You can't hear without a microphone. I asked Senator Candiani why he asked to intervene. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. The Lega Group calls for the possibility of suspending our work for a few minutes in order to be able to meet and consult with the other political forces on the progress of this discussion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u62	Senator, there is no obvious reason for your request, but five minutes of suspension are not denied to anyone. I therefore suspend the sitting for five minutes, which will then resume at 11.40 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.35 a.m. and resumed at 11.41 a.m.) The session is resumed. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u65	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, we can only share what has been said on this matter, thus maintaining the principles already set out for the cases before us. Among other things, I have to say frankly that I do not think there is any such difference, to see and to read carefully the statements made both by Senator Giarrusso and Senator Bottici, but I firmly believe that in this case too it is a matter of applying a principle and I am firmly convinced that Senator Bottici's story also falls within the cases of inconvincability. I want to reiterate for the last time - I do not know if it will be the last, but I repeat this again - that we have a Constitution and we must stick to what the Constitution says. This is what I personally do, as a member of the immunity committee for eight years now, and I have always strictly adhered to the observance of the laws and the Constitution. Therefore, the Group of Italy Viva, as it had done in the Commission, will continue to seek compliance with the law and the Constitution and will vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the rapporteur. I would also like to stress what is happening lately also in a body that is not parajurisdictional like the Junta, but is judicial, such as the Guarantee Council: as I have learned from newspapers and television, the secret has been violated... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u66	Senator Pilgrims, please take your place. Senator Castaldi, go sit in your seat. [[Comments]] If you go on like this, I'll beg the Quaestors to intervene. I've had a long experience, but I've never seen such a stir in my mind. It's really unusual. So, I pray each one to recover that absolute serenity with which such matters should be dealt with. We're really overreacting. Senator Cucca, would you like to finish your speech?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you again. The Group of Italy Viva-Partito Socialista Italiano will vote in favour of the proposal formulated by the rapporteur, stressing that we will continue to observe the law and the Constitution and we will stay away from the political assessments, as it is happening, not only in a parajurisditional body like the Junta, but also this morning in a judicial body, such as the Guarantee Council. In fact, I have learned from the newspapers that the secret of the council chamber was violated about the decision taken yesterday. The decisions of the judges - because such are the members of the council - must never be discussed: they are those. Then, there are the tools that the law eventually prepares to remedy if they feel wrong. For our part, we will continue - we say it out loud - to observe the Constitution, which is our belief, the lighthouse that always guides us in political activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u68	Senator Cucca, thank you also in relation to the tones of your statement, which I invite colleagues to imitate, whatever their beliefs.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u71	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, if there was a case on which I thought the debate would be very calm, that is precisely what it is. We are in fact discussing a case of school: if we were to explain to students in the classroom how Article 68 on inindacability applies, even in the light of the numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court that are of law value, we could cite exactly this case. In fact, in this case the statement made extramoenia does not merely reproduce the meaning, but the letter of that intramoenia. Sometimes we discuss the extent and extent of how much an external declaration reproduces more or less faithfully or deviates, and from time to time we reason in relation to the ratio of Article 68 and we decide accordingly. There's no room here. I would like to say - and I do not want to be personalized - that, knowing my colleague, I am not surprised: Senator Bottici has reproduced exactly as a recorder what has been said in this House. I would therefore say that the debate could end here. I understand that a certain polemic vis arises from positions that can politically exist - and we would miss something else! - however, I would like to point out once again, in the hope of not being pedantic, that the subject even involves us as individual parliamentarians. We are speaking on behalf of our own group, but in the Junta we express ourselves in the vote of the individual Member of Parliament, given the issue of prerogatives. Among other things, it is not a renunable function: once the judge raises the question because he does not intend to apply it and transfer it to the Senate, it is no longer something that belongs to the individual; just because we are talking about prerogatives, it belongs to the Assembly. In conclusion, there is a theme that subverts me. When we say that we are in the presence of a case of school we apply the law absolutely punctually, and in this case we say with absolute tranquility. The application of the law is also a guarantee for citizens, because if you do not share the laws you can change, but if you do exist, the same must be applied. However, this also applies to those considerations which sometimes tend to transfer autonomy to political power on the grounds that a consensus and a popular vote have been obtained. Therefore, we should keep these principles very dear, regardless of our ideas, which can be different on individual issues, because compliance with the law is a guarantee principle for everyone, except of course those cases provided for in the Constitution for which, motivatedly, we can have different solutions. The only cases in which, for example, a judgment can also differ slightly from a law in force - this happens when case law proposes solutions considered to be more advanced - are those in which it interprets itself in a constitutionally oriented manner. This happens not so much when you are at odds, but when the law has an interpretative void and we are obviously required to provide. Most of the cases are quite peaceful and provide us with the basis for reflections and also interventions of the legislator, which we hope we will be able to put in place to adapt our instruments to the changes of society. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u74	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I am surprised that on a subject such as indisputability we can divide ourselves by belonging or by manifestations of confrontation, hatred and resentment against one another. I understand that it is difficult to look objectively and independently at the moment when they are being examined by this House and the senators who are part of a group, but we all have to do this because Article 68 of the Constitution guarantees the individual senators, but above all the function we exercise here. Therefore, belongings should not play any game in the Senate. From this point of view, I would ask you to consider, in relation to the facts before us, this particular case, which is really - as has already been said - at school. There is a correspondence between the statements made in the Senate and the statements made outside. Not only are they fully reported, but it is said and recalled the intervention made in the Senate at the time of the interview. Therefore, it is such an obvious purpose of popularity that it cannot make to vote in a different way, i.e. only because of the unmistakableness of the opinions expressed by Senator Bottici. I therefore declare the LEU Group's and the Mixed Group's vote in favour, which is recognised in this statement on the report presented. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u77	RICARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, while he noted that the requirements of the Constitutional Court were met on the legal level, he noted that he would take a political stand against the proposal, given that the Movimento 5 Star Group had always renounced immunity and had always preferred to submit to the judge's judgment as every citizen. What I have just read is not, of course, my Group's explanation of vote on the request for permission to proceed with Senator Bottici, but it is a quote extracted from the summary report of the session of the Senate Assembly of Elections and Immunities, in which the case of the Senator was examined. It is clear that, decontextualized, there would be nothing wrong with that quote. It is the simple enunciation of a line that, right or wrong, could be considered legitimate; however, we cannot and must not pretend not to know that, instead, there is a context here. The context is serious and deserves to be maintained. Reading in the words of a MP of the Movimento 5 Stars that the Movimento 5 Star Group would always have renounced immunity and would have always preferred to submit to the judge's judgment as every citizen - a statement reiterated a moment ago by a member of the Movimento Group - just as the request for authorization to proceed by a member of that same Group, who appealed to the immunity granted by Article 68 of the Constitution, is a paradox that we cannot and do not want to accept as senators, but even earlier as Italian citizens. [[Applause]] Law No 140 of 20 June 2003 leaves no room for interpretation. If the judge does not consider to accept the exception concerning the applicability of Article 68 (1) of the Constitution proposed by one of the parties, the judge shall, without delay, provide with an order which is not open to appeal, by sending directly a copy of the documents to the Chamber to which the member of the Parliament belongs or belonged at the time of the event. It is clear, therefore, that if the case in question came to the examination of the Junta, first, and of the Assembly, then, it is only and exclusively because the Member concerned by the measure resorted to the prerogative provided for by the law. [[Applause]] Mr President, I personally would like to welcome the fact that the 5 Star Movement has radically changed its positions in order to always renounce and in any case make use of the prerogatives set out in Article 68 of the Constitution. What continues to leave me deeply perplexed is to note the highly inconsistent behavior, since the same, at the same time, use the instrument on the one hand and on the other they insist on denying the prerogatives referred to in Article 68 with a behavior that is detrimental to the dignity of Parliament... [[Comments. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u78	Colleagues, the applause must also be done by sitting in your seats. I would like this debate not to be so agitated because we are not operating in a situation of political conflict. We are exercising an almost judicial function. Please remember and limit your emotions. Please, Senator Riccardi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u79	It should be pointed out that this article is intended not to protect the person of the Member of Parliament but to protect his or her function. [[Applause]] As far as I am concerned, I am led to believe that the issue of allowing Members to carry out their duties with the guarantees and safeguards provided for by the law is even more important and topical today. The advent of social media, in fact, and the all too often uncontrolled and irresponsible use of the same often sees us, as politicians, an easy target for insults and threats to us and our family members. [[Comments.]] On this subject, allow me to express my absolute closeness to the secretary of my party, Senator Matteo Salvini, for the aberrant messages that we have arrived on the profiles and that we have all read in these last days. [[Applause]] I am sorry that I did not see, for Secretary Salvini, the solidarity I would have wished for from many quarters. I am sorry, but not totally surprised because I have had the opportunity on several occasions to experiment on my skin that, unfortunately, often the same ones that in favor of cameras are fiercely fighting for the repeal of caste privileges and for rights, in the shadow of a post are not so used to stigmatize deplorable behaviors. [[Applause]] It must also be pointed out that all these people who today insult social politicians and not only remain - or almost - unpunished, as if they were enjoying an inexplicable form of immunity. Nobody asks for privileges for parliamentarians; what is being asked is only respect for the law, the institutions and the Constitution. In conclusion, I am voting in favour of the proposal of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause]] We are convinced that the legal requirements set out in the Constitution are met and we - at least we - when we are called upon to express ourselves on cases of this kind are based solely on the study of documents and on the interpretation of the law, regardless of the name, party and history of the Member in question. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u82	WORDS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I too am surprised by the progress of our work, because unanimity should have distinguished the vote in this House and also because I believe that there is a legal civilisation that should guide our work. Moreover, especially when we think in legal terms, and I would actually add politicians, we need a linearity. There has been a debate within the Council, which has not yet been fully concluded, on the subject of the interpretation of Rule 68. Rule 68 is an indispensable prerogative on the part of the Member of Parliament; it is an indispensable prerogative which is accorded to individual Members for the opinions expressed in the performance of their duties, regardless of the content, truthfulness and seriousness of the expressions. This prerogative cannot be denied. I say this with great tranquility to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, because the mistake they make today and have made in the work of our Junta is to skip an article in the Constitution. But the Constitution cannot be applied to pieces and an article cannot be bypassed because it does not like it. Maybe you change it; but an article in the Constitution needs to be applied. The work of the Junta consists in taking an orientation. Today, colleagues from the 5 Stars, like any other colleague, may not vote in favour of the Junta's report, but not because they do not recognize the application of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, but because in this case they feel that this prerogative is not being respected. In this case, not in everyone, because this would absolutely lead us out of a legal debate that must guarantee the work and the important role that parliamentarians must play now and tomorrow for the country. I say this without provocation: I first saw my colleague Santangelo very agitated, but I remember that rightly, at the beginning of the legislature, my colleague Santangelo asked to be audited by the Junta, he brought his own reasons and the Junta accepted the reasons of Senator Santangelo. All this leads us to have consistency and linearity. The first paragraph of Article 68 may not be bypassed. We are not changing opinions depending on the event or the person involved. Forza Italia will vote in favour of the report by Senator Balboni, because, beyond the truthfulness of the statements made by Senator Bottici and beyond their seriousness, it is clear that they have been carried out in the exercise of the parliamentary mandate. For this reason it is necessary to safeguard not Senator Bottici, but the parliamentary mandate as such. These are the reasons why Forza Italia will vote in favour. Personally, I believe that the connection between intra-moenia and extra-moenia of the Member of Parliament should also be extensively reviewed. I would like to make this clear to my fellow Members, also in relation to other reports which will be of interest to us in the course of the sitting. We saw first the example of Senator Candiani, who was even unable to carry out a parliamentary activity by his role as Government. It cannot be assumed that political and parliamentary activity is the only one in this House. The political and parliamentary activity of a member of this House must be safeguarded when it is recognized within political activity and within an activity aimed at ensuring not only its political activity [[Applause]] But the dignity of the whole of Parliament, in this case of our branch of Parliament. Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, I have previously heard a colleague complain because Senator Gasparri did not assign the role of rapporteur to members of the Movimento 5 Stars. It is obvious, however, that this probably happened to avoid embarrassment [[Applause]] because, if Article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution is not recognised, it is clear that it becomes difficult to carry out a report protecting the Member of Parliament and this indispensable prerogative. 12:05 p.m. (Following Words). I therefore hope that the page that we are writing today will serve to strengthen the quality and work of all parliamentarians, also through this indispensable prerogative that Forza Italia defends today and will always defend. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u85	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, as far as the specific case is concerned, while noting that there is a legal basis for granting indispensability, as has been pointed out by the rapporteurs, for the granting of indisputability - particularly because of the strong link between extra-moenia and intra-moenia, as has been repeatedly reported by the rapporteurs - at the political level, however, we cannot but express ourselves against this proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, given that the 5 Star Movement has always renounced immunity and has always preferred to submit to the judge's judgement, like any citizen. [[Applause]] This is being consistent and not, as the League does, attacking us, says it is against and then restores the vitality. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u86	Colleagues, please let Senator D'Angelo finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u87	D'ANGELO (M5S). For this reason, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars Group, I am voting against. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u88	Colleagues, I invite you to sit down and stop this demonstration. Do not force me to suspend this House, ladies and gentlemen. Please, Senator Perilli, invite the Senators of your Group to take their place again. Senator Licheri, please. Colleagues, don't make me suspend the session. Let us proceed with the vote. Please put your wallets, sit down and continue with the work of the House. Senator De Vecchis, you too: what do we do, we respond from one side to the other? Please. Colleagues, if each of you takes his place again, we can move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u90	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u91	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I have always thought that a politician should defend himself in the process and not in the process. I thought so before I was elected, and I still think so, so much so that, when I was sued for defamation, I didn't think for a second to assert the indistinguishability of what I had said. I am surprised, however, that he is an exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars do not do the same and do not give up the inindacability. That is why I will vote against the opinion of the Junta that "scuba" Senator Bottici.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u94	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I would have liked to have voted in favour, because in principle I strongly believe in this prerogative and the role of Parliament. But I can also understand the political reasons of the Movimento 5 Stars. I am sorry that Senator Bottici did not give up, which would perhaps have removed everyone from the embarrassment of this discussion, while I am pleased to have witnessed the very moralistic passage by MoVimento 5 Stars on the unfortunate restoration of vitality: a pity that comes from a Group that confirmed and confirms the trust of a CEO of a State shareholder who was sentenced for serious financial crimes, for having falsified the budgets of Monte Paschi di Siena. You're keeping him... president. Senator Paragon, I invite you to remain in the discussion. PARAGO (Mixed). Vitalities have a lot to do with the speech I'm having. In any case, I will abstain on this decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u95	I call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the election council's proposal... [[Comments]] Senators, please; Senator Santangelo, Senator Paragon, please, I'm voting. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Laura Bottici constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Comments.]] I would ask you to confirm that everyone has voted in the gallery. Senator Puglia, change positions: I think there are enough benches to exercise your right to vote. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] Senator Candiani, I do not understand you: if you want to intervene, do so when you can; I am in full vote. The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u96	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Maurizio Gasparri for the offence referred to in the third paragraph of Article 595 of the Criminal Code (defamation by the media) transmitted by the Court of Rome on September 8, 2020. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Assembly, by a majority, has proposed to the Assembly that the statements made by Senator Maurizio Gasparri constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u97	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly as this is a fairly simple matter, arising from the transmission to the Senate by the judge for preliminary investigations at the Tribunale di Roma of the acts relating to a criminal proceeding registered as a result of a complaint brought by that Dr. Rosanna Calzolari, magistrate at the surveillance court in Milan, on 3 June 2020, concerning a statement made by Senator Gasparri to the press agency Adnkronos on the operation of the doctor herself, following the granting of the detention of a prisoner who would have been or had serious heart problems, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It should be pointed out that Senator Gasparri had also made it clear that in the place where he was sent to house arrest there was absolutely no center specialized in cardiological problems. Despite this, Dr. Calzolari claimed that she had felt harmed in her person and in her good repute, and for this reason she proposed a complaint. Again, we continue to observe the constitutional dictation. The prerogative of inindacability is applied on condition that there is a functional link with the exercise of parliamentary tasks, which is essentially centred on two requirements. The first, which is enucleated by the Constitutional Court, is based on the correspondence of meaning between the opinions expressed outside and those expressed in the parliamentary classrooms, which must not necessarily be regarded as a pedissequ reproduction. The second requirement for the configurability of the prerogative is based on the so-called temporal link between parliamentary and external activity. For the more precise specification of the existence of the requirements, I refer to the report which, as you announced, Mr President, has been distributed. Following also a discussion which, as always, has been in-depth and focused on precisely these issues that I have just mentioned, the Junta had proposed by a majority to decide that the statements made by Senator Maurizio Gasparri, who has repeatedly taken up these issues also in the Senate Chamber, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall within the scope of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u98	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u101	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I announce that the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of the proposal by the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, on this criminal proceeding concerning Senator Maurizio Gasparri. I fully agree with the rapporteur's considerations of law: the connection between the parliamentary activity and Senator Gasparri's non-moenia statements is demonstrated beyond any reasonable doubt. Let me just add that, in this case too, as in some of the previous ones, there should not have been any need to arrive at such a pronunciation, because it is already evident in itself that the sentence pronounced by Senator Gasparri in the statement to the agency Adnkronos was a legitimate exercise of the right of criticism. Political criticism concerns the activity of any institution, including the judiciary. There is no right of the judiciary not to receive criticism, especially when it comes to a magistrate who sends a dangerous criminal to home detention without the prerequisites. [[Applause]] From this point of view, we are all the more convinced that we are voting in favour of the rapporteur's proposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u104	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a slightly different case, because there is no doubt that the subject has been dealt with in the general sense in this House, but we are referring, as it is not uncommon for it to happen, to a specific person and to a specific measure, which is judicial. I want to say very quietly, inserting myself in a debate raised by my previous colleague, that obviously it is not possible to criticize the representative of another institution (in this case we are talking about jurisdiction), but I believe that, although the subject is certainly related, in this case there is a jump, because reference is made to a natural person identified and to a court order, on which, of course, it is not forbidden to express itself; the statement that the magistrate in question must be disbarred from the judiciary and the fact that it is asked publicly that the Board of Governors should throw him out on two feet is one of those cases where an assessment is not superfluous. For these reasons, as has already been done in the Junta, our vote will be abstaining. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u107	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, the case before us is a little particular, because the sentence expressed by Senator Gasparri, in a statement issued on 25 April 2020, is as follows: But this Calzolari in what world does he live in? (and here we are in an early phase); then again: What is the CSM waiting for to disbar it from the judiciary? I would like to see the MSC kick her out on two feet. This is the sentence in its completeness. The problem is also that this sentence, as represented by the plaintiff, has triggered on the most widespread social media, such as Twitter and Facebook, such a statement, giving it wide resonance, triggering a real media lynching. However, I believe that the issue of house arrests of highly dangerous prisoners has been addressed. I was perfectly in agreement to censor this use of the discretion of the supervisory magistrates to assign certain dangerous prisoners, for reasons related to the pandemic, to the house detention regime, to remove them from the prison situation. First, it would have been necessary to acquire the impossibility of carrying out prison care or pandemic protection within health facilities, which, in fact, did not happen. From a political point of view, therefore, the issue has been very widespread and addressed. Although it is clear from the report that the specific question was asked at a later stage, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court shows the possibility of predictability on the subject of a question. From this point of view, therefore, the right of criticism to the decisions of the judiciary cannot certainly be censored. The problem is when we move on to the next stage, to the second statement, which concerns the request for disciplinary measures, which should even lead to the removal from the judiciary of that magistrate for the exercise of a judicial function (and therefore, all in all, discretionary), which can also find means of appeal or others to compensate for any deficiencies of the system or for the decision not shared. From this point of view, although the subject is politically dealt with and the indisputability is certainly acceptable, I believe that there has been a sort of excess in the right of criticism, at the time when this radiation was requested, which has provoked the media's humiliation towards the magistrate. I am therefore abstaining from voting on these grounds.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u110	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, we are examining the request for a resolution on the indisputability of Senator Gasparri, in the context of a criminal proceeding which originated from a complaint lodged by Dr. Rosanna Calzolari, magistrate at the surveillance court in Milan, concerning a statement issued on 25 April 2020 by Senator Gasparri to a press agency on the operation of the doctor herself. With regard to the work of my Group, I can say with pride that our objective, both in the Junta and in this House, has always been to ensure all constitutional guarantees in all cases where the fundamental values of the person involved are really at stake, guaranteed by our constitutional framework and international charters. In particular, with regard to insincability, I would like to stress that our activity as a Movimento 5 Star Group has always been based on a careful examination of the activity of the suspect parliamentarians, in relation to the issues for which the same is challenged, also considering that each situation presents its own peculiarities, as well as in the case under consideration. Let's talk about the arguments that have emerged. It has been noted that Senator Gasparri has only expressed a political criticism related to the issue of the release of dangerous criminals following the emergency Covid. I reply that, if there has been a simple political criticism, moreover excluded from the activity carried out by the parliamentarians, this is ascribed to dynamics of a completely different nature, which must be resolved through the normal legal safeguards, because the instruments currently envisaged to protect the freedom of expression of every citizen, whether senator or not, there are and are more than adequate, so much so that expressing opinions and political criticism today in Italy fortunately is not a crime at all. The sentences that Senator Gasparri has addressed to the magistrate are ascribed to an extremely harsh criticism, for many people not acceptable, although it is clear - the rapporteur also repeats - that the affirmation of Senator Gasparri is clearly indictable to the right of political criticism and, as a right, is able to exclude the anti-justidity of conduct. I therefore wonder why Senator Gasparri calls for inindacability. This is not the place to detect the non-existence of the crime, which is the responsibility of the ordinary judiciary; it is therefore not afraid of Senator Gasparri to be judged, but of having confidence in the judiciary. Let us also bear in mind that whenever recourse is made to the indisputability provided for in Article 68 of the Constitution, at the same time, the corresponding right to justice of the plaintiff is severely undermined and this is a very serious gesture. That is why indispensability can only apply in cases where there is a close functional link with parliamentary activity and it is not extendable at will, i.e. it cannot be applied outside the proposed cases, thus missing the requirements clarified by the jurisprudence of the Consulta, only because of the fact of being a parliamentarians. [[Applause]] It is an absurd claim and an intolerable habit, typical of that odious privilege of those who feel superior to ordinary citizens. That is why the 5 Star Movement - I repeat - has always renounced immunity: by presenting itself before the magistrate, it fulfils a specific duty, that of every citizen, and even more of a representative of the citizens in Parliament as we are. [[Applause]] I would then have a very careful discussion, but I do not want to tease the House about the content, which does not coincide with external statements; about the temporal link, which is not there; or about predictability. In short, I have done an in-depth examination and I can tell you all the dates and all the topics he was talking about, such as prisons that need more alternative penalties to avoid disease problems, instead now for the external one critics the application of alternative penalties; in short, let's move on. In an absolutely macroscopic and objective way, there is a complete lack of the necessary requirements to grant the required indispensibleness, yet one still wants to exploit the privilege. This is profoundly wrong, but the problem is also another: we need to pay close attention to the hate messages that are launched, because they could generate an emulative domino effect, as my colleague Grasso has already pointed out, namely what the plaintiff herself calls a real media lynching. So let us pay attention to hate messages. I finish my speech by saying that it is for the judiciary to assess this case and reaffirm that ignoring the limitations of the Constitutional Court is liable to degrade the prerogative in question, transforming it into a personal privilege and therefore a sort of completely unacceptable impunity. For these reasons, I would like to say that the Movimento 5 Stelle will vote against the rapporteur's proposal of inconvenience. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u111	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Maurizio Gasparri constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). Senator Candiani, do you not think that we should be in the Chamber when I call the vote? I see you call me back every time, but should I cancel the vote and reopen it? The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u112	The next item is the debate on the document: In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso for the offence referred to in the first and third paragraphs of Article 595 of the Criminal Code (defamation by means of the press) transmitted by the Tribunal of Trapani on 17 November 2020. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has, by a majority, proposed to the Assembly that the statements made by Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Balboni, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u113	Mr President, I should like briefly to refer to the report I have already submitted, in order to make it clear to the House that this is a complaint lodged by Mr Biagio Bosco against Senator Giarrusso for some comments published on Facebook. In particular, the indicted sentence would be as follows: Wow! Even the mobsters are intervening now! We're right at Mafia 2.0. In relation to this incriminated phrase, Senator Giarrusso made it very clear that there was a corresponding intra-moenia parliamentary activity justifying this statement. I refer to my report, because it is quite clear how Senator Giarrusso has dealt with the subject of the Mafia on several occasions, particularly in the province of Trapani. As if that were not enough - this must be stressed for me and I ask the House to listen to me with a moment of patience - we are faced with a strange case: the complaint is presented by Mr Biagio Bosco; however, by analyzing all the posts that have been published on the Facebook page, we realize that the sentence indicted was published before the intervention of Mr Biagio Bosco's comment, that it is therefore impossible to be the person offended by any defamation. The person offended by that possible defamation, to which Senator Giarrusso referred, is actually Mr. Ugo Gaspare Lazara, who did not file a complaint. Once again, we are faced with a magistrate who finds it more convenient to send the acts to us than to read them with due attention, which is why, even more so, I propose to the House that I approve my proposal and also announce my Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u114	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u117	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, for the reasons which have been repeatedly set out here all morning, I am voting in favour of the Italian Viva-Partito Socialist Group's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u120	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, in order to remain in legal terms here we are in the classic case of misrepresentation of the fact, because precisely the person who proposes to be offended in reality is not and the object of the course taken into consideration refers to another person. It therefore seems very peaceful and clear to me that there can only be a vote in favour of the proposal by the rapporteur, Mr Balboni.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u123	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I fully agree with the reasons put forward in the report by Senator Balboni, given that there is absolutely no coincidence between the recipient of Senator Giarrusso's statement, which is referred to as a commentary to Mr Ugo Gaspare Lazzara, and the plaintiff, who is Mr Bosco. There is therefore no basis for any assessment of inindacability. I therefore declare the Misto-Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidali Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u126	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, despite, as has already been said, the documents deposited in the Commission show the possibility that there is no correspondence between the plaintiff and the recipient of Senator Giarrusso's statement, announcing the contrary vote of the 5 Star Movement compared to the final proposal of the Junta, noting that in this case the only authority entitled to assess the existence or not of the crime of defamation is the judiciary. Unspeakableness cannot be the pretext for setting up an undue privilege for the benefit of Members alone. I therefore make it clear that in this case there will be no problem for the plaintiff in proving that the complaint is unfounded before the ordinary court. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u127	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u128	The next item is the debate on document IV-c, No 1, which contains: Application of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of a civil mediation procedure against Senator Anna Maria Bernini (mediation procedure No 2018/2020) pending before the forensic mediation body of Rome. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly that it considers that the fact, in respect of which a civil mediation procedure is under way in Rome's forensic mediation body vis-à-vis Senator Anna Maria Bernini, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that, therefore, in this case, the constitutional guarantee of insindacability referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u129	Mr President, I am speaking in a very brief way, because the matter has been very well summed up in the report that has been distributed. It is only a matter of highlighting one fact: in this case - and this has been the subject of some discussion in the Junta - the civil case was still in the preliminary stages before the mediation body. Since there was still no procedure, the problem had been raised whether or not action could actually be taken. However, where mediation is compulsory and therefore must be proposed before civil action, it is clear that examining it in immediacy is simply a matter of economics even procedural. Senator Bernini has therefore rightly asked that the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities be given a ruling on the matter, and therefore the Assembly: in this sense, it has been decided to express an opinion in favour of the irreplaceability of the opinions expressed. I would like to remind you that, as you will read in the report filed and distributed, this is the story of a television broadcast in which Berlusconi once again talked about the story, which, moreover, has been repeated in recent days on TV more or less in the same terms; Senator Bernini, repeating what, in an infinite number of circumstances, since the last legislature, had already expressed, said: "a fierceness never seen at national or international level; this is the only process that succeeds in achieving a successful outcome because all the others have ended miserably; (...) it is not an eccentricity, this is a violation of all the constitutional democratic precepts. .. and also announcing the request of a Commission of Inquiry into the whole matter. For those who have been here since the last parliamentary term - but also in this parliamentary term - it is undeniable that Senator Bernini has repeatedly spoken exactly the same words and expressed herself in the same terms. It is therefore clear that the requirements laid down in the Constitution for the recognition of inindacability are fulfilled and, in this sense, the Junta has decided by a majority to recognise the indistinguishability of the opinions expressed in that forum for the reasons I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u130	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u133	Mr Balboni (FdI) Mr President, I would like to read to the House the statements made by Senator Bernini who caused civil action by two magistrates, one of whom is even President of the Court of Cassation. These are the statements made by Senator Bernini in relation to the sentence imposed on Mr Berlusconi, of which we are all aware: •A vexation never seen either at national or international level; This is the only process that can succeed because all the others are miserably finished. But - I repeat - this is not an eccentricity, this is a violation of all constitutional democratic precepts... If the judge's third-party status fails, you understand it is a terrible thing to lose the judge's independence, it means the total loss of the judiciary's credibility. A Commission of Inquiry that will finally clarify exactly what you are telling us, that is, about these interweavings, these Gordian nodes between politics and justice. The biggest disgrace after the 2013 ruling is that of 27.11.2013 when in Senate Berlusconi was driven out indecently, illegitimately, unworthyly, on the basis of a judgment that now proves totally unfounded... because what the left has not been able to do for twenty-four years, that is to say, beating Berlusconi, has been done by the magisterial hand, this is the shame, this is the filth, which we must tell with a committee of inquiry. [[Applause]] That's the indictment. Senator Bernini commented on an audio in which a judge declared: "I have to do the deck." [[Applause]] This is the phrase that Senator Bernini was commenting on. Just two days ago, the European Court of Human Rights asked Italy ten questions to understand whether the trial in Berlusconi respected the rules of fairness, justice and contradiction. Then I am not only saying in this House that I will not only vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, but I take every responsibility for saying that those two magistrates must be ashamed and do not deserve to belong to the noble and high order of the judiciary. [[Applause. Conmments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u136	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, I would say that with this case we can continue our discussion not only on the spirit, but on the extension and interpretation of Article 68 of the Constitution. Of course, I do not think this is the place to comment on the issues raised, although I understand that this is almost an unmissable opportunity. However, I would like to reiterate that this is a classic case in which a colleague outside Parliament has done nothing but support not only her opinions, but also what she has always expressed on time in this House, with views that can be shared or not. I am defending the fact that we are not discussing whether we share them, but we are dealing with an analysis on which a debate could be opened on a number of issues which, in the appropriate political fora, could make sense. I am also saying that we are approving important reforms, in which they have their seat and voice changes aimed at ensuring even fast times for the processes, which is a very important thing. When we talk about the criminal trial and the reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary (CSM), which we very much care about, we are talking about a series of principals for a process that is to protect all the parties involved. Turning back to the main subject, this is the classic case in which we are called to decide and to value, indeed, with this vote exactly the spirit and sense of democracy and the function of Parliament. Of course, I am defending Senator Bernini's right to fully express her views, having done so in this Chamber, partly because I believe - presumptuously, you will forgive me - that my Group does not lack the possibility, but also the ability and the locations to discuss exactly the merits of the statements made by my colleague. I therefore voted in favour of the report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u139	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I think that in this case reference should be made to Law No 140 of 20 June 2003 implementing Article 68 of the Constitution, which requires that there be pending judicial proceedings in Article 3 (2) and the applicability of Article 68 of the Constitution is excluded from the case by the party concerned; following the exception, the judge shall order the documents to be sent to the Chamber to which the Member of Parliament belongs. Article 3 (7) of the aforementioned law also provides that the question of the applicability of Article 68 of the Constitution may be put directly by the parliamentarians. However, in this case too, judicial proceedings must certainly be in progress, as the same rule states. Consistent with the position taken in the context of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, I do not think that the mediation procedure can be described as judicial. For this reason, I believe that the law implementing Article 68 of the Constitution should be integrated in relation to new procedures, such as mediation. For this very reason, I believe that we must abstain from the judgment and, therefore, possibly await the start of judicial proceedings in order to be able to deal with the matter on the substance. For this reason, I declare the abstaining vote of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u142	URRARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to declare the Lega Group's vote in favour of this proposal. The current dispute concerns statements made by Dr. Nicola Porro, Dr. Sallusti, Dr. Sansonetti and Mrs. Anna Maria Bernini during the episodes of the program "Fourth Republic" conducted by Dr. Porro, aired in July 2020, against the doctors Antonio Esposito and Claudio D'Isa, who were part of the working section that gave a judgment in 2013 taken in the context of the judicial case known as Mediaset in the journalistic chronicles. With the aforementioned judgment the appeal, among other statues, of Senator Berlusconi against the judgment of Milan Court of Appeal of 2013 was rejected. According to Dr. Esposito and Dr. D'Isa, during the episodes of the aforementioned television program, the conductor Porro and his guests would have performed a distorted and misleading reconstruction of the facts related to the aforementioned story, with misleading comments. In the course of the episode of July 13, 2020 was also invited Senator Anna Maria Bernini. At the beginning of the transmission, announced by the title "New document on the Berlusconi judgment," the conductor Porro reported, in the opinion of the instants, in a summary, generic and not in conformity with the contents, the disputes raised by the latter and the request for correction of 30 June 2020 concerning the statements of the late judge Amedeo Franco. Then Dr. Porro reported the report of the complaint made by Dr. Esposito against three employees of the hotel in Ischia who had attributed to the latter serious claims against Silvio Berlusconi, sending again the statements of the interested parties. They refer to the bystanders who Senator Bernini made, in this regard, the following comments: This is the only process that can succeed because all the others are miserably finished. The legitimacy of these statements, which constitute a clear exercise of the right of political criticism to be safeguarded and protected, is clear. A substantial area of Senator Bernini's parliamentary activity refers to the exercise of jurisdiction in our country. There have been numerous speeches in this House and the parliamentary acts which the report of the Junta identifies in detail. On 27 November 2013, Senator Berlusconi spoke in favour of the validation of Senator Berlusconi during the debate on the proposal for revocation under the so-called Severino law. On that occasion, the senator repeated several times her outrage at Senator Berlusconi, saying the following sentences: "Today we are called to determine whether Parliament [...] abdicate to its function, limiting itself to writing the final page of a political use of justice which has lasted for twenty years. A week before the television broadcast, on 6 July 2020, the Parliamentary Group of Forza Italia presented a draft law, of which Senator Bernini was first signatory, concerning the establishment of a bicameral committee of inquiry on the political use of justice, bearing the number 1870. Article 1 of the draft law lists the objectives of that Commission, including in particular the direct or indirect influence of existing political currents within the judiciary on the conduct of the judicial authority, both investigative and judicial, but also if and to what extent individual members or groups within the judiciary have carried out activities contrary to the principle of separation of powers, the democratic principle and the principle of popular sovereignty, in particular aimed at interfering with parliamentary and government activities and, more generally, the exercise of the functions of other constitutional bodies. The report of the bill states: In this vacuum of the political system, the judiciary, which is strongly politicized within it, has been included, at least in the top bodies. These are some significant intra-moenia statements, which are capable of rooting the prerogative of indisputability, in the case of this case even more important being aimed at guaranteeing the right of criticism of the parliamentarians in relation to the judiciary, a right which in this case must take on an enhanced value, given that, if the parliamentarians were not able to express their political assessments with respect to the judiciary and the magistrates, such limitation would be likely to mitigate the role of Parliament and its autonomy with respect to the judiciary, which is first and foremost autonomy of criticism and judgment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u145	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, in this speech I would like to be even shorter, because I have already said so much in previous speeches. I would just like to say, with regard to Senator Bernini's case, that we should leave aside the spasmodic search for supporting requirements, and that we should do away with the various acts in order to find the phrase to which the functional link should be rooted. Instead of looking for too generic links, temporal bonds that are too labile or climbing and striving to find the link in the plausible predictability or nonpredictability of a subsequent act, I ask Senator Bernini, who does not seem to me a shy person, who can argue (I recognize him) and who would well defend himself in a courtroom, if it would not have been more appropriate for her to face the situation directly. [[Applause]] She could have brought herself to trial, having the crime declared non-existent. If we were to authorize the indispensibleness of any criticism, though very harsh, expressed in TV broadcasts, we would be full and full of causes. But above all this is not the spirit of the norm; it is much more. Let us ask ourselves whether the principles of the democratic state are at stake: I do not think so. Let us ask ourselves whether these are dangerous backslidings of the judiciary to demolish the legislative power or not, if these are much less serious issues. There is not even a real trial here; there is talk of mediation hearings, which often close there, without going to trial. So briefly I say: do you want to grant the inindacability? Let's do it; but let's do it only in high, exceptional and important cases (not in this), so as to respect the original project of our constituent Fathers. Do not degrade this important institution [[Applause]] , which you have reduced to unacceptable impunity or, worse still, a hateful privilege, typical of those who believe they are superior to ordinary citizens. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen, we do the right thing and to do the right thing and for the reasons described, I do not think it is appropriate to grant immunity and, considering that this case must be solved very simply by the ordinary judiciary, I announce the contrary vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u146	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to consider that the fact, for which a civil mediation procedure is under way in Rome's forensic mediation body vis-à-vis Senator Anna Maria Bernini, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that, therefore, in this case, the constitutional guarantee of insindacability referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u147	The next item is the debate on document IV-c, No 2, which contains: Application of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of a civil mediation procedure against Senator Franco Mirabelli (mediation procedures n. 4665/2019, 4666/2019, 4667/2019, 4668/2019, 4669/2019 and 4670/2019) pending before the Rome Forensic Mediation Body. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, may I ask for some silence in this House? I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly that it consider that the fact, for which Senator Franco Mirabelli has received acts of citation and for which civil mediation procedures are under way at the Rome forensic mediation body, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that, therefore, in this case, the constitutional guarantee of insindicability provided for in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Modena, if she wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u148	Mr President, I am speaking briefly because this is a very clear case. Senator Mirabelli, during the television show "Tagadà", even in 2016, had intervened with reference to the coast of Ostia. The following is the substance of the civil mediation procedure: They have been collusion with the corruptive system mainly linked to the coast (...) Now, the line was worse when you were worse is unacceptable because the gentleman complaining that when there were kiosks the beaches were well kept forgets to say that those kiosks were illegal and ruled by the mafia. The request of course refers to the last part of Senator Mirabelli's statements, but it is absolutely in line with what he has always said in his work in the Anti-Mafia Commission. In particular, a number of hearings were found during which Senator Mirabelli had expressly intervened, for example by questioning Alfonso Sabella on the problem of the relations between kiosks and mob organisations. He did so both in the 17th and then in the 18th legislature, stressing several times that there were concessions already proved illegitimate, always within the framework - I would like to reiterate - of what was his activity in the Anti-Mafia Commission. That is why it was considered by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities that there was a constitutional guarantee of insindacability, as referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u149	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u152	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would just like to point out that the matter has committed us greatly because some acts were missing and therefore it has lasted even longer than necessary because the pandemic could not be handed over. However, I would like to point out that after the application had been submitted to the mediation body and we had established the procedure, they were then notified, and it was very difficult to recover them, even the summons. The story is extremely clear if only it is considered that in all the statements of Senator Mirabelli, including those issued during the transmission, the Senator did not make any specific and personal reference to anyone, even to those who then sued him. He simply generically talked about the story of kiosks on the coast of Ostia, without any specific reference. The subject has been reported several times over the years by Senator Mirabelli, who has always spoken about it publicly. It is therefore objectively a matter of extreme simplicity and clarity. We shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the rapporteur. The vote of Italy Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano will be favorable.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u155	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the rapporteur's proposal by Brothers of Italy. Senator Modena's report is well motivated and the functional link is out of the question. I must say, among other things, that Senator Mirabelli has also shown some courage - which was not easy to find at the time - by denouncing a corruptive system, which is now before everyone's eyes. [[Applause]] I believe that this House should take this opportunity to show solidarity with Senator Mirabelli. I would therefore like at least for once to vote in favour of the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u158	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, I can only endorse the previous speech. I think that rarely will we have a seminar day on the measures of the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity; even those who are not members of it, today have taken part in a day of deepening and discussion. In the case of Senator Mirabelli we see precisely the application of the function of the parliamentarians who, among other things, as part of the Anti-Mafia Commission, exercises the political role of investigation of such serious phenomena that they have motivated the establishment of an ad hoc Commission and exercises this role as it must exercise it, publicly reporting not only the points and the outcomes, but politically denouncing a phenomenon and exercising the political role in terms of awareness and mobilization. So much so that he indicates the phenomenon; even in comparison with other cases we see exactly what the tenor is. Therefore, the case in our examination is not only under the protection of Article 68 of the Constitution, but we can say that it is the classic case of full exercise of the parliamentary activity and of the protection of his freedoms against other types of pressure, exactly the spirit in which Article 68 of the Constitution was written. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u161	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the proposal which was made because it is clear in this case that Senator Mirabelli did nothing but represent what had clearly emerged during the 17th parliamentary term in the Anti-Mafia Commission regarding the problems of the coast of Ostia and, in particular, on the eight free beaches, on the kiosks on which the municipal administration was to decide on the management, on the climate of real intimidation racket operating on that coast. His courageous statements, therefore, have certainly not betrayed the ban on the disclosure of something that was already in parliamentary proceedings. Among other things, it must also be said that it has done nothing other than generically expressing its assessments of a phenomenon, without indicating subjects, without indicating any details such as to allow the detection of people who are offended. The complaint was brought by people who have self-qualified themselves as victims of something that has not been said and has not been done. For these reasons, I reiterate my vote in favour of the indisputability of the views expressed by Senator Mirabelli. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u164	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group in relation to the resolution of the Junta which declared the statements made by Senator Mirabelli to be unassailable. For reasons of logic, but also of time, I would like to refer to the report which we wholeheartedly support, which the rapporteur, Mrs Modena, has just said. I would also like to acknowledge, during my brief speech, the attention and courage of Senator Mirabelli in making statements in a clear and clear but also well-founded manner, because this decision of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is based on decisions of the Constitutional Court that have taken over the guidelines of the European Court of Human Rights, demonstrating that there is a connection between the extra-moenia statements of the Senator, issued in this case on television, and the work he has done as an intra-moenia Member, that is, within the institutions. There are several cases in which his attention has been certified with respect to the Mafia infiltrations in the management of kiosks on the Roman coast, particularly in Ostia, within the Anti-Mafia Commission in the last legislature. I therefore have no choice but to reiterate the Group's vote in favour of the resolution of the European Parliamentary Assembly on elections and parliamentary immunity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u167	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say to Senator Mirabelli that the fact dates back to 2016, so I would advise him not to look for requirements in the various speeches that are old years, to carve out a phrase to root the functional connection, to try to be lucky or by chance within the temporal bond. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, you have to address the Presidency. This is not a debate between you and Senator Mirabelli. GALLICCHIO (M5S). I'd like to tell Senator Mirabelli that he's a loyal man. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, you must address the Presidency, Senator Mirabelli is here and will listen to what you want to say to this House. GALLICCHIO (M5S). He's a loyal man. I didn't say anything wrong. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have not complained about loyalty or not, I am only telling you how the debate is taking place in this House. GALLICCHIO (M5S). I was just looking at my paper. He is a loyal, upright man of moral depth, I recognize him but many colleagues recognize him. He is a man who certainly does not yield to the intimidation of the kiosks of the Latian coast. But I wonder if it is no longer dignified and correct for him to appear in court and to have the crime declared non-existent, because the crime is not there, we would miss, maximum solidarity for Senator Mirabelli. However, let us make an effort of courage and dignity; let us give the prerogative of unindicability the value it deserves, that of an important instrument that prevents and contrasts the prevarication of the powers of the State in order to preserve precisely the balance of the democratic form. Let us grant it only in serious, exceptional and important cases, in order to respect the dream and the design of the constituent fathers. We're always at the same point. Let us not degrade this prerogative until it inevitably resembles a privilege of the political class. This must be avoided! [[Applause]] In conclusion, for all these reasons, I do not think it is appropriate to grant immunity and, considering that this case should be resolved by the ordinary judiciary, to announce the contrary vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u170	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I should not have spoken, because what I heard from both the rapporteur and subsequent speeches was sufficient. I know my colleague Mirabelli. Many times I have not shared his views, but I have appreciated his seriousness and commitment, especially within the Anti-Mafia Commission. Last surgery shocked me. In previous cases we could also make a political assessment, questionable or not, but in this case, in which in a striking way my colleague Mirabelli, assuming his responsibility and subtracting himself from the fear of retaliation, denounced facts that were later proved as real, announcing a vote against, means tearing down the Constitution! It means abolishing the Constitution! It means going back to the Stone Age! It means embarrassing Parliament! And all you have to do is be ashamed of! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u171	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to consider that the fact, for which Senator Franco Mirabelli has received acts of citation and for which civil mediation procedures are under way at the Rome forensic mediation body, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that, therefore, in this case, the constitutional guarantee of insindacability referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, having to proceed with the sanitization of the Chamber, I suspend the sitting which will resume at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.19 p.m. and resumed at 10.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u172	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 1, which contains: Request for authorization to use telephone conversations of Senator Luigi Cesaro in the context of a criminal proceeding pending against him (No 16519/2017 RGNR - No 8701/2017 RG GIP) transmitted by the Tribunal of Naples-Nord Chamber of the Judge for preliminary investigations on 13 April 2018 The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I recall that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided, by majority, to propose to the Assembly, as regards conversations intercepted on the telephone users of Antonio Di Guida, to accept the request of the judicial authority for phone calls of 20, 22, 23 March 2015, 1 April 2015 and 5 May 2015 and instead to reject the same limited to the phone call of 10 April 2015; as regards conversations intercepted on the telephone users of Angelo Liccardo, to accept the court's request for preliminary investigations limited to the phone call of 16 March 2015 and to reject it instead for the phone call of 14 April 2015. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u173	Mr President, once again I will refer to the report which has already been distributed in this House this morning, as you announced. This is an application for authorization to use telephone interceptions in criminal proceedings against Senator Luigi Cesaro. I would just add that there have been some vicissitudes, because initially the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity had pronounced itself for the incompetence of the Senate; then the request was returned to the Junta, so we took care to examine it. The case is summarized in a very clear and precise manner in the report submitted. I just want to point out that also in this circumstance, as in all the others of which the Junta has dealt in the matter of the use of the intercepts, we have applied the usual principle - it is well explained in the report and, therefore, I avoid proposing it here in order not to lengthen too long - to declare the usability exclusively of the intercepts that are certainly random, that is those for which it is certain that those who listened to them were not aware that one of the two interlocutors was a parliamentarians. In this particular case this can be easily deduced because the first is a phone call that happens to make a person who is subjected to telephone interceptions, and a person who speaks with the intercepted subject is listened for the first time: it is probable therefore - and this is the principle that has always been applied in this matter and that we have made our own in Junta - that those who listened could certainly not know, during that first interception, that the interlocutor of the intercepted subject was a parliamentarians. Following this logical profile, it is assumed that those interceptions that have occurred at a very short distance of time are still random. It is still likely, knowing how the system of interceptions works, that in one or two days, that is, when only the hoaxes are compiled, but are not yet examined on the merits and above all it has not yet been verified which is the identity of the subject who dialogues with the intercepted subject, they consider to be random only those. In this sense, the decision, taken by the Council by majority, to consider the interceptions of 20, 22 and 23 March 2015 of 1 April 2015 and that of 5 May 2015 as usable, compared to the requests received by the judicial authority, as well as that of 5 May 2015, always because there is the delay of time that occurs and it is assumed that the interceptions are random. While it is very difficult, when a considerable amount of time passes, that the judicial authority has not become aware that the interlocutor was a Member of Parliament. The same criterion has been applied also for the intercepts on the users of such Liccardo and, therefore, it has been declared usable only the first interception - in fact the phone calls were two - leaving the second one, because the first was of 16 March and the second one of 14 April. The length of time is long and certainly the judicial authority knew the identity of the interlocutor or, if not, could certainly have known it. That is the way in which the majority decision has been taken, and that is the proposal that the Junta makes to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u174	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u177	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I rise to announce that the Brothers of Italy Group voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, which I also voted in Junta. I would like to stress that Fumus Persecutionis is certainly excluded, as Senator Cucca explains in his report, and that is what allows us to get on the subject. We therefore believe it is right to authorize the use of all those phone calls that have the character of occasionality and accidentality. The investigators, when they picked up the conversations, didn't know they were listening and picking up conversations about a congressman. The only two intercepts on which the Junta denies authorization are much ahead of time, so it is not plausible to imagine that the investigators were actually not already aware, for the past time, of who they were listening to. Therefore, the proposal is very balanced, reasonable and thoughtful and finds our agreement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would kindly ask colleagues who are listening to a video in this House without the headphones to be able to use the politeness to do it outside the Chamber, or at least to use the headphones.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u180	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this case too, our vote will be in favour. I would like to stress that the document has already come to our examination with a first selection made by the judge for preliminary investigations in his own role, namely that of being the first to judge whether the request of the prosecutor can be accepted. This is the case for interceptions, arrest requests and anything else; in the case under consideration the judge for preliminary investigations has already excluded from the requests made to the prosecutor the usability of some conversations, because, since they are users of the family, they could already suggest the direction of the investigation. The "could not not have known" in this case is - I think rightly - applied. In any case, we have done the examination that we have to do, that is, we have assessed the necessity and indispensability, of course in relation to the motivation given, because it is clear that we do not do a parallel process, but we evaluate the arguments in support of the request. Therefore, we have assessed the relevance and indispensability and then focused on a very important aspect, which is the direction of the investigations and therefore of the objective, when it is clear that the objective can only be that of the Member for the point and the situation in which the investigations are located. So, we have decided to authorize the usability of some conversations and not others. For these reasons, the Democratic Party's vote will be in favour of this report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u183	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). We announce the vote in favour of the resolution of the Council. Consistent with what has already been decided, the methodology used to recognize the randomness of the interceptions and, therefore, the need to verify, only in relation to this, the possibility of authorization correspond exactly to the criteria adopted. Therefore, the phone calls of 20, 22, 23 March 2015, 1 April 2015 and 5 May 2015 have the characteristic of chance, also determining the fact that, due to their proximity, the investigators certainly did not have the confidence that the third suspect interloquised with a parliamentarians involved in criminal matters, as well as regarding the phone call of 10 April 2015. We agree that the petition on Liccardo's telephone users should be accepted for the call of March 16, 2015, while it should be rejected for the phone call of April 14, 2015. It is plausible that there has been a change in the direction of the act of inquiry directed at the Member of Parliament. I therefore vote in favour of the request by the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u186	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, we are faced with the case of Senator Luigi Cesaro for the granting of the authorisation, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 68, of the Constitution, to the use of interceptions of conversations to which Cesaro himself took part (thus, third users), in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him in the court of Naples North for electoral corruption. For this case the Movimento 5 Stars announces the vote in favour of the report of Senator Cucca, who has agreed on the granting of authorization to use the interceptions of conversations of 20, 22 and 23 March, 1 April 2015 and 5 May 2015. Likewise, we agree on the denial of the use of the other two interceptions, those of 10 and 15 April 2015, as considerable time had elapsed, so the judiciary could not help but know that it was intercepting Senator Caesaro. It is clear, in fact, that in this case the law and the judgment of the Constitutional Court, No 390 of 2007, had to be strictly applied. The same case law is very clear in saying that the interceptions of telephone conversations can only be used if occasional, fortuitous; therefore, a considerable period of time must not have elapsed, which allows the judiciary to know that it is intercepting a Member for whom it is obliged to request prior authorization from the House of Membership. Therefore, in this case too, Fumus Persecutionis must be excluded for those interceptions against the parliamentarians, while authorization for those interceptions which were clear to the judiciary that a parliamentarians was picking up, for which the change of direction of the investigation took place. For these reasons I confirm the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u188	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u189	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, in this case the opinion of the Junta allows the use of some interceptions by denying it for others. I agree with the part of the opinion that allows the use of some interceptions; I disagree with the part that denies the possibility for the rest. I asked the Council to be able to vote for separate parts and that was not allowed. In practice, the opinion is a unique package to take or leave, both good and bad. This is not acceptable and in my opinion it is incorrect, logically even before legally, because in the part where the interceptions are denied it is claimed that the same were captured without any chance. In fact, both for the temporal distance of the same intercepts from each other and because, however, the intercepts were all people investigated, who were picked up in completely random moments in conversations with Senator Caesaro, it would have been much more correct to be able to vote for separate parts. In view of this, I believe that the negative part of the opinion in which it does not allow the judiciary to use a significant part of the interceptions is prominent, so we will vote against the Junta's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u190	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity, as regards the conversations intercepted on the telephone users of Antonio Di Guida, to accept the request of the judicial authority for phone calls of 20, 22, 23 March 2015, 1 April 2015 and 5 May 2015 and to reject instead the same limited to the phone call of 10 April 2015; as regards the conversations intercepted on the telephone users of Angelo Liccardo, to accept the request of the Judge for preliminary investigations limited to the phone call of 16 March 2015 and to reject it instead for the phone call of 14 April 2015. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u191	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 3, which contains: Request for authorization for the use of phone records and interceptions of telephone conversations with Mr Carlo Amedeo Giovanardi, senator at the time of the events, in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him (No. 5624/2019 RGNR already 20604/10 RNR - No. 4824/19 RG GIP) Transmitted by the Court of Bologna Section of the Judge for preliminary investigations on 1 August 2019 and received by the President of the Senate on 4 September 2019 The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I recall that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided, by majority, to propose to the Assembly, with regard to the profile inherent in the use of telephone interceptions, to accept the request for the first phone call (of 30 March 2013) and to reject it for all subsequent calls, i.e. those of 8 June, 27 June and 10 July 2013; as regards the use of the phone records, to accept the request of the judicial authority. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Durnwalder, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u192	Mr President, we are examining the request for authorisation of the use of phone records and interceptions of telephone conversations by Carlo Amedeo Giovanardi, Senator at the time of the events, in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him also before the Court of Bologna for the participation in the offences of the disclosure and use of office secrets and violence or the threat to a political, administrative or judicial body, its individual components, aggravated in accordance with Article 61 (2) and (9) of the Criminal Code, as well as Article 416-a, first paragraph, of the Criminal Code and for offences of contempt to the public officer and violence or threat to the public officer, aggravated in accordance with Article 61 (2) of the Criminal Code. As already mentioned by the President, the Junta at its meeting on 1 July 2020 decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly, with regard to the profile inherent in the use of telephone interceptions, to accept the request for the first call, that is, that of 30 March 2013, and to reject it for the subsequent calls, i.e. those of 8 June, 27 June and 10 July. With regard to the use of the records, he proposed to accept the request of the judicial authority with regard to the first call, i.e. that of March 30, 2013, for which it was recognized the occasionality of the same. On the other hand, the calls of June 8, June 27, and July 10, 2013 were made some time after the first call of March 30, 2013. This is a symptom of the change in direction of the investigative act, and it seems implausible that the judicial authority has not noticed the involvement of a Member of Parliament after so long. Using the phone records requires verification of whether or not there is a fumus persecutionis. There is no fumus of first degree, expected that no element makes likely an enmity or, however, a persecutory intent pursued by the magistrate. Similarly, a third-degree fumus consisting of the manifestly unfounded nature of the acts in question cannot be configured, since there has been no evidence that there is evidence of a supposed incongruity or obvious illegality of the acts. I would therefore like to refer to the report for the precise reasons, both in fact and in law, in support of the conclusions that have just been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u193	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u194	Mr President, this issue has been going on for a long time and refers to the role that Carlo Giovanardi, at the time he was a senator, played in the procedures relating to reconstruction after the seismic events that affected the area concerned. In Giovanardi he was ascribed to have committed crimes, for which he is investigated, having perorated the causes of companies excluded from the so-called white list - probably a foreign term is used because such a concept is a little foreign to our right - for matters that did not refer to the companies themselves, (i.e. those companies were participated by persons related to organized crime). An emblematic and not unique case concerns a person who, condemned in Sicily for crimes of mafia and served the sentence, saw recognized the possibility of working. He then asked the company of a relative who was in Emilia-Romagna to be hired to meet the requirements required to carry out the activity. That relative who had a company in Emilia-Romagna asked for permission from the surveillance magistrate in order to get the person affected by a conviction to work for important crimes and received authorisation. Even the magistrate of surveillance said that it was okay for that building company to hire the person in question, that - I repeat - it was already condemned for Mafia crimes, and that it had to work with low-wage jobs. For this reason - that is, to have hired a person with the permission of the magistrate of surveillance - this company has been removed from the white list, with the consequence of not being able to participate in any contest, to receive assignments and to carry out works for the public administration. It is very difficult to say that this is a fair procedure and that there is nothing compatible with the constitutional principles, according to which the penalty is aimed at the education and social reintegration of the sentenced person who, once the sentence is taken, has the same rights as any other citizen. It is in fact that Senator Giovanardi worked for this foreclosure to be removed from the w hite list. Nor has it ever been assumed that Senator Giovanardi has received, in exchange for this alleged illegal activity, any kind of benefit, neither in terms of money, nor in terms of other assets, nor in terms of electoral support. As a result of this activity, he has been subjected to telephone interceptions and a series of accusations; he has been accused of having supported his position with too much virulence and of having uttered sentences that have then been indicated as a crime (at the level of threats and so on). I believe that special attention should be paid to such a subject. If a Member fights against an affair that seems to him a clear injustice, without any kind of convenience that is not to pursue justice for a company in the territory that elected him and that in any case he represents (under Article 67 of the Constitution), that this can be considered in some way a crime and in parallel - not worse yet, but just as badly - can consequently lead to being subjected to telephone interceptions it is a fact that should worry everyone. In particular, it would make those who think - and I would say that in this case we can all be involved - that the parliamentary mandate consists not only in coming here to press a few buttons on someone else's direction, but also in fighting first person on the territory (and of course also in the Senate) against injustices, especially if perpetrated in the name of the Italian people, i.e. if perpetrated by public structures. It is obvious that this in parallel involves someone's convenience: when we defend rights, we always make someone's convenience, otherwise we should say that rights are a damage. I believe that we must be very careful on this issue. The case of Giovanardi will return to this House in the coming months, always for the same story. I think it is necessary to have a particularly careful look. As we have already seen this morning in the case of Senator Mirabelli, the vast majority of the Senate rightly felt that they were exercising their parliamentary role in making accusations against certain circles which the judiciary itself then investigated and recognized as linked to crime. Here we have a similar case: a senator strives to avoid injustice and is therefore intercepted against the principles of the Constitution. Let us remember that there is not only Article 68 of the Constitution, but there is also Article 15, which protects confidentiality in communications between all citizens. The MEP has another one, because, being in a competitive environment such as the political one - if you take more votes, we will take less, and vice versa - we must avoid the risk that one party may know what it is doing, what it is working on and how the other party is organizing. This is not acceptable. If this happens on the pretext that one fights to defend justice, to defend the needs of the territory or to defend jobs, this becomes particularly worrying. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u195	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u198	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, if you will allow me, Senator Malan's speech moves me, as President of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, to make some remarks in the margins of this affair. It is, of course, difficult to follow in this House such detailed discussions on very complex matters for us members of the Junta as well. The Senate Assembly, however, then puts its definitive stamp on procedures and authorisations. On the events arising also from the action of Senator Giovanardi - and then I will say why I use the term "action," "initiative" - we have much discussed in Junta and will come back to discuss it also the Assembly, as Senator Malan recalled a moment ago. The story of our former colleague Giovanardi, who was also the subject of debate in Junta and on which the rapporteur, Mr Durnwalder, has been called upon to re-examine other assessments, is directly linked to the nature and substance of Article 68 of the Constitution and of parliamentary activity. Today, in many speeches - I have also done so by President Grasso - the contextuality has been discussed and the question of a given fact has arrived at a reasonable time, a profile which the Court's judgments and assessments have also dealt with. There is the issue of the announcement of a question by a politician, who, if anything, does it two or three days later, because perhaps there is a weekend and questions are published at the same time as the proceedings of the House. At other times it happens that one goes to a place, makes a comment and then takes no more paper and pen, but the iPad or iPhone, and writes the question. The Senate Offices themselves are often very careful - and this is right - when questions affect relations between the judiciary and politics. However, the events of Senator Giovanardi - and when we return to this will be even more emblematic - affect the parliamentary activity in a typical way. Mr Giovanardi, in fact, has been interested in companies and companies inserted or disintegrated into the white list, therefore considered companies "presentable or not presentable," but has done so by carrying out a typically parliamentary action in the last parliamentary term, with interventions of various kinds, sometimes even with interventions at the end of the sitting in the Chamber that are never sufficiently adhered to. He has tabled a series of questions and made statements in Parliament and in the press in the controversy that has hit the territory of Emilia-Romagna and Modena and there have also been striking events. I remember the "Aemilia" inquiry, in which there were people - including politicians involved - who were acquitted after convictions that, in the first degree of judgment, greatly damaged their reputation. We have seen that some magistrates engaged in those territories have recently been transferred by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, on the basis of decisions for which then one that is not good in Bologna is good but in Florence: if a magistrate is not good in the exercise of judicial activity, transferring it from city frankly can pour the damage on others. The action of Carlo Giovanardi is therefore a parliamentary action and I say it because it remains in the proceedings, for the decisions that we are taking now on some telephone interceptions, but also on those that we will then assume on a story that is the same. Carlo Giovanardi was not intercepted by the judiciary today, but was recorded by interlocutors who recorded the phone call. Then those recordings, which aren't wiretap, go into the hands of the judiciary, which we still don't know if it will use them or not. There was a correspondence to this end between the Junta, which unanimously shared the request for information, and the Presidency of the Senate, because it is the Presidency of the Senate that writes to the court. It is therefore a matter in which some interlocutors and I see Senator Durnwalder who, as rapporteur on several occasions, knows the story... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, I actually asked Senator Durnwalder if his reply was in place of the rapporteur and he assured me he would. Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, otherwise I couldn't have brought you in. You are therefore in response, Senator Gasparri, perfectly in line with the procedures. Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, in fact, having not spoken all day long, I wanted to speak for a few minutes, since there is finally a debate on the acts of the Junta in this House. The reflection on Article 68 of the Constitution in general, which we have done on several occasions in the Junta, has been requested by several colleagues. I do not want to quote here the long letter that Senator Renzi wrote about the use and not the use of wiretapping. The story Giovanardi, which is a concrete case, and not an affair of political reflection, which will have further developments when we return to the Assembly with the recordings made by a gentleman, leads us to say that at least the interceptions must be authorized, decided by the judiciary and, in the case of a parliamentarians, if they are not random and repeat themselves, we must ask for authorization. Instead, Giovanardi's interlocutor recorded the interview and gave it to the judiciary. In a private conversation, I can say I don't like Senator Mirabelli or anything. But if I think it's a private conversation, then it's complicated to set up a crime. If all the private conversations that we do take on legal importance, a family would not remain standing in Italy, and I do not say a party because already the parties are struggling to stand. In conclusion, Mr President, on this issue I call on the House to reflect on why Giovanardi has asked questions, speeches in this House and in public and sometimes - as he recently stated in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities - even with the heat of his own. Someone met Giovanardi and came across him in his own way, sometimes even impetuous. I remember he once said he went to the prefecture and shot everyone. However, he said it as one who talks to fans: no one can imagine Giovanardi entering the prefecture by armed hand do a massacre. There's an ongoing investigation into this, too, because I don't know what crime he would have committed on the street, talking to people. So you can censor language and behavior. Giovanardi did a political battle on the matter so that some companies, which came out of the black list and returned to the white list, would be valued differently. The trials went on with some acquitted and some condemned; some magistrates were transferred in the context of the polemics and discussions that broke up after the Palamara affair. I therefore believe that, frankly, this House should take account of the typically parliamentary action that Giovanardi has taken in this House; some of the questions have also been signed by some of our colleagues, as is the case in the Senate and you too. Here comes the colleague you trust who presents a question and asks you to sign: you do not do a scientific study or you feel 3,000 people, but you trust the colleague. There are also colleagues in this parliamentary term who have signed parliamentary questions. If anyone wants to conspiracy, he certainly does not do parliamentary questions, speeches in this House or goes to the prefecture with strong support for his own reasons. I do not believe that anyone who wants to make a conspiracy acts using his parliamentary status. That is why the events of Giovanardi go on the substance of Article 68 of the Constitution. Even colleagues who dispute Article 68 from the roots are legitimately controversial and attacks of all kinds, because they interpret the popular mandate as also aimed at correcting errors, flogging customs, soliciting various events. I therefore believe, Senator Durnwalder, that, because of the delicacy of this incident and the delicacy of those who will follow, there is a reflection to be made, which we did with special debates in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which concerns Parliament. Article 68 is not the license to abuse, it is not impunity. We're here to decide whether or not there should be legal proceedings. We had to postpone some decisions, as we learned yesterday when President Casellati read the agenda, with reference to the document on Senator Siri. The Court of Cassation is right in its positions, but the judiciary wants to continue with its investigations: do so, it is its power and we will assess it. However, many cases show that Article 68 of the Constitution is not the condition of privilege, but it is often the condition for ensuring the viability of parliamentary activity. We must make this clear. [[Applause]] The House is then sovereign and decides what it wants. That's all I need! We are also following today the procedures laid down in the Constitution, which was amended in the 1990s. The scope of Article 68 has therefore been very narrow; there is no immunity and impunity, but there is the possibility of expressing opinions, which I too occasionally use, and then we can agree or not. Today, Senator Rossomando has given an interpretation, which I would call an exemplary article 68 in reference to the events of our parent Bernini, saying that she does not share those opinions, but I am - alive God - of the opinions of a debate taking place in the country on justice and everything else. So before we take our freedom of thought off, let us think carefully, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u199	As the rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u200	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u202	CUCCA (IV-PSI). On behalf of the Italian Group Viva-Partito Socialista Italiano, I announce the vote in favour of the proposal and I must say that the matter that has occupied us in this matter and which will deal with us has committed us a lot. I also feel that I should like to thank both President Gasparri and the other Members of the Council, because we have been discussing this subject several times, whose content is objectively complex and still deserves further consideration. In this sense, we broke up with each other the last time we discussed it. I repeat that this is a very delicate and quite complex matter and President Gasparri has very well framed the whole story. We are committed to ensuring that everything remains in the balance of legality. I believe that this proposal meets these requirements and therefore our vote will certainly be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u203	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u205	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, but I cannot help but express in this House all my concerns about the affair in which Senator Giovanardi was involved; an affair which for those who know him and for those of my colleagues who want to deepen is really disturbing and very worrying, in relation to the truly unprecedented intrusiveness that a certain judiciary has exercised towards a Member who was playing an institutional role, it is true to guarantee what he felt was necessary to do in order to restore a fair and respectful behaviour of the law towards an entrepreneur. For this activity, Senator Giovanardi is accused before a court of serious crimes such as the revelation and use of office secrets, violence and threat to an administrative or judicial political body, outrage to a public officer, violence or threat to a public officer and even originally was accused of the Mafia attack referred to in article 416- bis of the penal code. I think that any one of you who wants to reflect for a moment on the matter as it has been reconstructed by Senator Malan and Senator Gasparri and as it is clear from the reading of the report, some questions should be asked. I accept the conclusions of the report that there are no elements to affirm fumus persecutionis, although - I repeat - from what I have said some doubts I rise and therefore there are no reasons to oppose the granting of the use of telephone records requested by the judicial authority, although honestly it seems a very unusual request to reconstruct the telephone contacts of a Member of Parliament and that is already a fact that should make us think. As regards the request for the use of telephone calls, it is okay to grant the first one, because one can still imagine that it could be occasional, and certainly reject all the others, because being very later, from 30 March of the first to 8 June of the second, it is clear that the time spent must let imagine that the judicial authority knew very well in reality who was intercepting. It is something that the Senate will have to return to and that must make us very worried about the increasingly sloppy border that the judicial authority thinks to always move forward in relations with politics. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u208	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, of course this is a complex matter. We've had a chance to deal with this and we'll take it further, with all the attention the case requires. Given, however, that it has been considered to intervene, anticipating also some considerations on the complexity of the matter, I am obliged to make some clarifications, if we want to do a job that is up to the task assigned to us, that is, when we discuss the prerogatives guaranteed by the Constitution, obviously in the mutual balance between the powers of the State and in the respect, which we rightly claim, for the autonomy of politics. We must be consistent, otherwise we risk being weak in demands. Let's begin, then, to distinguish. Today we are debating and voting on a report, adopted by a majority, on the use of interceptions, which can only be done on third-party users, which indirectly involve a Member of Parliament, and on which, in fact, we operate a very rigorous selection, according to the principles that you have now learned during today's day. This is a first question. The second question is that a recording has come to our attention which is technically called private recording. What's the matter? According to the case law, registrations between private individuals may be acquired, because they are considered documents. We're talking private, though. There is an interesting problem here, because, while the rule protects, however, the forms of registration made by the judicial authorities in the manner we have said, there is to be questioned when such registration involves a Member of Parliament. Obviously, it cannot remain a breach, a non-protection, even more so if it is a registration that has not taken place with the permission of the judicial authority. This is an interesting topic to address and, if we do it well, perhaps it will also be useful as a precedent. The last point, of great importance. Let us always remember that, when we address the issue of insincability as an opinion, we remain on the level of opinion. The authorisation to proceed tout court has been repealed. We can discuss whether it should be re-introduced in the light of the considerations I have heard in this House today. We can discuss absolutely everything, but if we want to do something useful, not just for the concrete case, but for the other issues that will follow, we must remember that we consider the conducts, that therefore we are represented by material conducts. Therefore, we will be very careful, because the case is particular and complex, about everything that is attributable to the only course that we can take today, which is the one that is due to the votes cast in this House. The fact that there is a large and copious parliamentary activity on the subject, of course, is to be used, but with reference to this. We will have to analyse what are the possible conducts under the discipline of Article 68. Then we may be sad that there are no others in it, but everything outside is clear that we cannot examine it. If anyone wants to make himself a proponent of proposing a broad authorisation, it is an interesting argument, which is addressed by many and is also the subject of a reflection of the relations between the political power and the so-called control of legality, as far as it can go, even in the light of laws other than the Italian one or of the developments of all that entails. I would refer to these lines because, otherwise, we make misleading statements, because to claim the autonomy of political action and the battles that can be waged is beautiful, but also not challenging. Since the subject is very serious, I would like to refer to this kind of seriousness; at least we are examining it with great attention and with this kind of seriousness, also taking charge of making fair and dutyful remarks, where we have not arrived at the documents that might have had to come, in the manner in which they were to arrive. We have not failed and we will not fail to ask for this to be taken on board and to be present to the Presidency, because we are all concerned and absolutely involved about the prerogatives of Parliament and not the individual. Having said that, returning to what we have to do, the report is very balanced, timely and careful, so the PD Group's vote will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u211	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, we would like to thank you for taking part in a debate which, however, is outside the scope of the decision that is being proposed to us today by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Today, in fact, we only have to decide whether to vote in favour of the resolution of the Junta on the use of a interception that has obviously been occasional and on this we have to confront ourselves today. We have expanded the debate beyond any measure, because of course Senator Giovanardi has held several hearings, he continues to raise problems that will be assessed by the Junta, so we will still have the opportunity to deal with him in this House. However, I must remind you that, in view of the prospect by Senator Giovanardi, it must be pointed out that in this case the Senator is investigated for the crime of revelation and use of office secrets, violence, threat to a political, administrative or judicial body and its individual components, aggravated hypotheses, as well as for the offence of contempt to public officer, violence and threat to public officer. The disclosure of professional secrecy is in no way attributable to the crime of opinion, so Article 68 of the Constitution that is invoked is only for opinions or votes expressed in Parliament. Certainly this crime is not an ontological opinion, but it is qualified in a different way. The problem can arise, if anything, for the outrage, for which the implementing law of Article 68 of the Constitution requires the interested party to raise an exception to the magistrate and if he does not intend to accept it, therefore he does not transmit the issue to the Chamber competent for the relative decision, then a conflict of attribution can be promoted. All of this, however, has not happened, so it is not part of the current decision that this House must take. There has even been talk of fumus persecutionis with regard to interceptions. Well, the interceptions are either random, and then they have to be evaluated for their occasionality, so there can be fumus persecutionis in something accidental, or they are indirect or direct and then it takes authorization. Therefore, the problem of fumus persecutionis cannot be addressed here and in relation to the subject that we are considering. Therefore, by deciding on the profile inherent in the current resolution on the use of telephone interceptions, I declare the favorable vote of the Mixed-Free and Equal Group, in the sense of accepting therefore the request for a single phone call, the initial one, the occasional one, the accidental one of March 30, 2013, and to reject it correctly and consistently with all subsequent calls that could have directed the investigation to all those who had contacts on that topic with Senator Giovanardi. I am referring, therefore, to the calls of 8 June, 27 June and 10 July 2013, which should not be authorised. I therefore declare the Misto-Liberi and Equal Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u214	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, in declaring the vote in favour of the resolution of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities concerning former Senator Giovanardi, I would point out that it is even appropriate in this case. It is so unfounded the action that has been and that is being carried out against Carlo Giovanardi that, using that single interception, there is some more element to understand it; the more you can get to the bottom of this story and the more you understand how unfounded it is and, indeed, how unfair it is, as I said earlier, that a Member has to face the expenses, the suffering, the bad fame that a judicial action involves against him. We know this is not an isolated case. I have heard someone this morning who has not yet understood that the indistinguishability of certain acts is not a privilege; indeed, certain safeguards provided by the constituent Fathers were much stronger. I have heard someone say that here one goes against what the constituent Fathers established; but the constituent Fathers determined that to investigate a parliamentarians it was necessary to allow them to proceed. Now this is no longer there, there are residual guarantees, but it is clear that if they are called into question for reasons of truly low-level electoral convenience, then the problem is there. This element has not been included at random and, by chance, in all countries there is a situation of this kind: all parliamentary countries have protection against judicial action. [[Applause]] Of course, I am talking about democratic countries; in non-democratic countries, of course, where the judiciary is in the hands of the Government, Parliament (which is usually a fake Parliament) must also be under the heel of those with executive power. Instead, we are a democratic country, like many others, for which there is this guarantee. This guarantee derives from the conception at the basis of modern democracies, that there are no categories - he thinks a little - infallible. If there were infallible and perfect categories, we would identify them and they would command; no problem, if they are infallible and perfect we would be fine. If the magistrates were perfect and infallible they would be given all the power; Parliament, the elections and all these long and annoying things (for someone) would be abolished and we would be fine. Unfortunately even the magistrates - think a little - are not perfect, like any other category. If the officials of the State were perfect they would rule them, but it is not so because - think about the revelation - it happens that in all categories there may be, alongside the many who behave well, someone who behaves badly. Think that this decision was taken by the constituent Fathers in 1946, although the judiciary, during Fascism, had generally resisted the regime's pressure to issue politically oriented sentences, for their dignity, to the extent that the regime, in order to obtain certain types of condemnation, had instituted special courts. That is why in our Constitution the procedure cannot be avoided from the natural judge: all principles that should be connatural in those who assume the responsibility of being a parliamentarians. Instead, someone thought of going in the opposite direction. How many cases have we seen, of all parties, of people accused and then acquitted? Accused, imprisoned for years and then hired, among politicians and even among non-politicals. Among the non-political is a bloody injustice, which should be the priority to be faced when dealing with justice issues. Every year, according to the judicial data, 1,000 people end up in prison in Italy and then justice itself, not newspapers or a political part, establishes that they are innocent: a shame and, in addition, a cost: these people, in fact, even if much less than it would be right, must be compensated. Then there are the other problems of detention under conditions that do not comply with the rules of international law. This should be the priority; other than approving the eternal process, interceptions everywhere, even in the bedroom and in all circumstances. This was supposed to be the priority. Staying to the political aspect, if a politician is destroyed in his career is a damage to democracy and not a damage to that individual politician. That is why we cannot talk about renouncing the prerogatives of Article 68: it is not a defence of the person, but a defence of democracy. [[Applause]] A Member of Parliament must be able to exercise his mandate without external conditioning. Of course, he must respect the law, but when you say: "He must defend himself in the trial," as some brilliant colleague said, know that last legislature we had a senator not of Forza Italia strangely, but of the Democratic Party, who was hit by dozens and dozens of judicial cases. And if the MEP cannot have this minimum guarantee, guaranteed by what remains of Article 68 of the Constitution, it means that he must use all your time and all his money - indeed, more than the money he has - to defend himself in the trials, rather than do his duty, that is to defend the interest of the Italian citizens. [[Applause]] If you are not aware of this, perhaps you should do another job, not come and be a member of parliament, which is a mission. We defend the prerogatives of the citizens here, because if the citizen chooses a certain person to represent him in Parliament and then this certain person cannot do one thing because he is afraid that the magistrate will investigate him, he cannot do another because he is afraid that they will sue him for defamation and he must endure dozens of consequences therefore, he can no longer live either materially or in terms of time, then we are not there. We therefore defend Parliament's prerogatives, because they are the prerogatives of citizens and democracy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u215	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u217	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like my colleagues who have not yet thoroughly examined the issue we are dealing with to suspend the use of the telephone for a few seconds and to concentrate on what we are going to vote on. We are faced with something that could happen to each of us in this House. We are in front of a senator, Senator Giovanardi, who has received a report from his territory. Of course, for parliamentarians who do not do land-based activities, because it seems that it is almost forbidden and it is necessary to stay in Rome all week, this may also seem to leap. [[Applause]] But we represent territories and listen to what people say about territories. Senator Giovanardi received an alert from his territory from a company that had been excluded from the white list for incomprehensible reasons. What does a parliamentarians elected by the people and representing a territory do? It is activated in all locations and with the possible modes to him. So what did Senator Giovanardi do? He did what all those here who are trying to exercise the mandate with a certain dignity would do tomorrow morning, i.e. he moved to the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission to change the anti-Mafia interdiction; he presented acts of questioning; he moved on to the territory asking the competent authorities, then the prefect, the commander of the Carabinieri and the various officials responsible for the offices what was happening. All this is normal in the action of a normal Member of Parliament. What happened? What did you get back from that? The criminal proceedings we're dealing with today have returned to you. I would like to remind those in this House who, even this morning, have said that it is in the end useless for us to apply Article 68, because there are so many judges who decide and that it is enough to appear before the judges with the utmost confidence and then the magistrates will decide, that the trial is already very often a punishment, especially for those who are innocent. And if the constituent Fathers have imagined to guarantee the parliamentarians that they can exercise their full mandate, without limits or impediments that limit their ability to act, it is precisely because this must be placed as a balance between the powers of the State. The powers of the State must be balanced, otherwise - as Senator Malan said just now - the government of the judges would be worth so much: they do everything and we go home. [[Applause]] To those who claim that it is necessary to appear serenely before the judges and that then they are very good at deciding, I ask why Beppe Grillo started to defend his son with a hallucinating video. Why did you do that? [[Applause. Comments]] He could have told his son to come before the judges serenely.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u218	Senator Pillon, stay in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u219	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Why didn't you? Who says you have to come before the judges quietly ask: have you ever tried a criminal trial in which you are innocent accused? Have you ever tried it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to the presidency, Senator Pillon. PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). I strongly advise you to try it, because it helps a lot to understand how our system needs the guarantees referred to in Article 68, otherwise this country ends up in disaster. This is what I tell you: let yourselves be tried, renounce the guarantees, rather than hide behind the vow, that much more or less, good or bad, the League, more Brothers of Italy, more Force Italy, more Democratic Party save us. That's what I'm telling you. Returning to the point, there is a balance between the powers of the state that cannot be put into crisis by someone who uses the culture of suspicion to cast shadow, to throw mud, to use the judicial argument in the political struggle. That is what is happening to Senator Giovanardi, and that is why we will vote in favour of this report, even if it is not over. That's not the last word. On this matter this very House will have to come back again, because there are not only the interceptions that we are talking about today, but there are other issues that will concern us. I wonder if it is normal for this to happen to a senator of the Republic who has acted in full transparency. If I had read in the papers of underground actions, of hidden actions, covered by who knows what secrets, perhaps there might have been undue pressure, but we are talking about conduct held by Senator Giovanardi in the light of the sun, of conduct held in this same Chamber. Then it means that we are being tried and condemned for conduct in this House. Then we say that we are on temporary leave, until we find someone who at some point decides to shut our mouths with a trial, as happened also to Matteo Salvini in these days, except then be acquitted by the court. [[Applause]] We could have arrived alone in this House to understand that that was a perfectly lawful course of action by a Minister of the Republic who was defending his country. [[Applause]] We could have figured it out ourselves. There was no need for the court in Catania. This is what's happening. Look at the arrival of the income of citizenship, quiet; there is some for everyone. Ask the question that comes. I'm going back to the conclusion of my reasoning. We are faced with interceptions which, by their very nature, are not admissible, and rightly the rapporteur, Mr Durnwalder, declares them inadmissible. You have to explain to me, in fact, how it is possible that casually - and I stress casually - every time we find ourselves in Junta to evaluate on the interceptions - I repeat, it is a case - someone is always intercepted with whom the parliamentarians was talking and, by chance, one does not make a single interception but asks 25 to be authorized. I say: one can be random, but if even, as in this case, in the first interception Senator Giovanardi says "we feel very soon, it is obvious that there will also be others. It is therefore clear that the randomness of the subsequent ones cannot exist. I wonder, then, what is the real purpose of those who come here today to ask us for permission to proceed with interceptions that are obviously not random, except for the first. Perhaps the doubt comes - someone who sat in this House much more important, wiser and even much more ironic than me, said that thinking wrong is a sin, but sometimes it gets better - that after all we are constantly under control, and at some point, casually, the request for authorization of interceptions arrives. So we're under constant control? [[Applause]] So is there anyone listening to our phone calls and pulling them out at the right time? As a Member of Parliament, I want to know; as a Member of Parliament, and before that as a citizen, I want to know. I want to know if my conversations are free, as provided for in the Constitution, even before Article 68 of the Constitution itself enters specifically. I want to know if my correspondence is really free and secret or if it is under a certain control and at the appropriate time it will be pulled out. I'm interested in knowing; don't you care? For God's sake, nothing to hide, my phone calls could all be published, but are we sure this is a good way to move democracy forward? For these reasons, I confirm that we will be voting in favour of the Junta's report, but - I repeat - both anti-mafia interdicts and the freedom of expression and correspondence of Members are issues which I believe should be discussed again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u220	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u222	[[Comments.]] Colleagues, shall we stop? You've shown your wallets, you've shown your mobile phones; now put everything in your pockets, sit and talk, senator. [[Applause. Comments.]] Colleagues, Senator Pillon has intervened, Senator Evangelista now intervenes. I have called my group back, now I call you; therefore, maximum impartiality. Please, Senator. EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, on the Giovanardi case, it seems to me that it has gone far enough; we have even reached the Gregoretti case, which - I would like to remind Senator Pillon - was the League that brought Salvini to Junta to martyrize in the regional elections. [[Applause]] They sent Salvini to the judiciary, so his own party. But let's go back to the Giovanardi case we're interested in. In the speeches that followed we heard everything about the substance: indeed a complex affair with which we spoke about the parliamentary activity of Senator Giovanardi. But Senator Giovanardi is accused of having put pressure on political bodies and public officials, so he has been challenged by various crimes: revelation of office secrecy, outrage, threat: all for having protected a company (the Bianchini company) excluded from the white list, but that ended up under trial so much that some members of this family have already been convicted. But this is the merit and the merit did not have to interest us, because the Junta had to deal only with the request of the judicial authority of authorization or not to the use of telephone interceptions of third party conversations in which Giovanardi participated, as well as the authorization to use telephone records, always of third persons investigated for various crimes, from which conversations could always come out with Senator Giovanardi. Well, the Movimento 5 Stars on this has expressed a favourable opinion in Junta on the report because, by law and always recalling the pronunciation of the Constitutional Court of 2007, but above all the third paragraph of Article 68 of our Constitutional Charter, in particular, the first telephone interception can be authorized, even if the judiciary had not previously requested permission from the competent Chamber, since for this telephone conversation and for this interception there is the element of chance and chance. For that intercept, the court probably didn't know he was intercepting a congressman. Regarding phone records, this request was also considered legitimate because fumus persecutionis was excluded. Certainly there are no reasons for enmity with the magistrates who follow the Giovanardi trial and above all, also in this, these are illegitimate acts and carefully motivated in detail by the judicial authority, which has been investigating this case for several years. For all these reasons, I support the 5 Star Movement report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u223	I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity, with regard to the profile inherent in the use of telephone interceptions, to accept the request for the first phone call (of 30 March 2013) and to reject it for all subsequent calls, i.e. those of 8 June, 27 June and 10 July 2013; as regards the use of the phone records, to accept the request of the judicial authority. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, considering that at 4.30 p.m. the Conference of Leaders is convened, I am suspending the sitting from now, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 16.24 p.m. and resumed at 18.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u224	The next item is: Information by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on security in the Mediterranean in the light of recent developments. I call Mr Di Maio, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u225	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senate for the opportunity to share some thoughts on the most recent developments that put the security of the Mediterranean at risk, a priority area of our foreign policy. I will focus mainly on two issues following the requests made in this House too: firstly, the rekindling of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and then moving on to the perspectives of the Libya stabilisation process, also addressing the issue of the fishing zone and the affair that a few days ago involved some Italian fishing vessels. Before I face the dramatic events of the last days in the Holy Land, I would like to make a premise. What is happening brings to our attention the extreme instability of an area of the world that is vital for our security, a region that remains driven by regional conflicts and dangerous outbreaks of tension. In addition to the events taking place in Israel and the Palestinian territories, let us think of Syria, Yemen, Iraq, the difficult process of normalization in Libya or the dramatic economic and social situation in Lebanon. As a country that projects itself in the Mediterranean as a natural bridge between Europe and the southern neighbourhood, Italy particularly feels the need to raise the commitment of the international community in this quadrant, with two objectives: to contribute to the peaceful solution of open conflicts and, above all, to build a positive agenda for the Mediterranean that enhances its potential as a platform for connectivity between Europe, Africa and Asia, and as a place of collaboration and prosperity. The geopolitical dynamics that reverberate on the regional balances today go through a phase of great uncertainty, with one of the few firm points represented by the role of the United States in this region, starting from the Abraham Agreements and passing now to the season of the new Administration that is intensifying the cooperation and synergies with its allies, first of all with Europe, also in a perspective of sharing the responsibilities. Farnesina's commitment to this is constant and consistent. Just yesterday I took part, after encouraging the High Representative, Josep Borrell, to convene her, at the extraordinary meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. Yesterday I also had a telephone conversation with my Israeli counterpart Ashkenazi and the day before I heard my Palestinian colleague Malki. In addition to other meetings with prominent actors in the area, two days ago I also met Iranian minister Zarif on a visit that had already been planned for a long time, to whom, as well as to others, I expressed strong concern about the attacks in Israel and Palestine, condemning as unacceptable the launch of rockets from Gaza and, at the same time, calling for a prompt de-escalation. From these talks I have obtained the confirmation of one of the strong points that guide our foreign policy. In particular, at this juncture, a relaxation at regional level can only lead to the revitalization of the political processes of conflict resolution and democratic participation. The scenario we are facing today in the Middle East is unfortunately dramatic. The spiral of violence in recent days in Israel and the Palestinian territories testifies to the volatility of a fragmented and polarised area; a volatility that is the result of unresolved nodes that add new carriers of instability, not least the tightening of social and economic disparities induced by the impact of the pandemic. The last few weeks have been marked by a new increase in tensions in Israel and the Palestinian territories. We have all seen the images of the raging clashes on the Mosque Plateau and Temple Mount and in the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood in East Jerusalem. The unrest soon degenerated into an escalation with the launch of rockets from the Gaza Strip to Israel, with the latter's harsh military response. There are many victims, including among the civilian population. Turbines and taffles have become endemic between Jews and Arabs in various cities in mixed cohabitation. The international community immediately mobilized. On 8 May, as the clashes in Jerusalem intensified, the Middle East Quartet, composed of the United Nations, the European Union, the United States and the Russian Federation, issued a declaration calling on the parties to stop the violence immediately and to exercise maximum moderation. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, and his special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, Tor Wennesland, have launched an appeal for immediate relaxation. The European Union, with various statements by the High Representative, Borrell, has expressed itself several times and calls for calm have also come from the White House, from countries of the Union, including Italy, France and Germany, and then from the United Kingdom, Russia and the main regional actors, including Egypt and Jordan, guardian of the holy places of Jerusalem. The United Nations Security Council met urgently behind closed doors on 10 and 12 May and last on 16 May at a public meeting attended by Secretary-General Guterres and Special Coordinator Wennesland. Guterres has ensured that the United Nations is dialogue with all relevant actors in order to achieve an immediate ceasefire and has indicated as the only way out of the crisis the realization of a two-state solution, negotiated between the parties and in line with international standards. [[Applause]] The Special Coordinator, joining the Secretary-General's appeal for an immediate cessation of hostilities, deplored the high cost in human lives, especially civilians, all calling for respect for international humanitarian law. Italy has made its voice heard expressing its deep concern and our appeals can be summarized in six points: immediately stop the conflict to prevent the loss of further human lives. That remains our priority. I also express deep sympathy here for all the victims and closeness and solidarity with their families. And I can only reiterate the imperative of immediately ending the military confrontation in place, in order to give the Israelis and the Palestinians the right to live in peace and security. Second point: firm condemnation of the launch of rockets by Hamas, which - I would like to remind you - as the European Union we regard as a terrorist organization [[Applause]] I renew the pressing call for the missile attacks from the Gaza Strip to cease with immediate effect. I repeat: the indiscriminate launch of rockets is unacceptable and inexcusable. Recognition of Israel's right to security: we recognise Israel's right to protect its civilian population; at the same time, we highlight - as the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the High Representative of the European Union, Borrell - that the extent of the response must be proportionate to the attack that has taken place, in full compliance with international humanitarian law. Fourth point: to initiate de-escalation measures. Every effort must be made to avoid an extension of the conflict. It is therefore crucial that the parties refrain from all acts of violence, provocation and incitement to hatred. I refer first of all to Jerusalem, which must return to being a city of peaceful coexistence, not intolerance or new bloodshed. To this end, the status quo of holy places must be strictly respected. The hostilities of these days have also confirmed the unsustainability of the humanitarian and socio-economic situation in Gaza: a situation that must be dealt with urgently. Fifth point: to support the Middle East Quartet. Attempts for mediation were promptly put on the field by the Quartet. We encourage all parties to engage constructively by ensuring cooperation in these efforts to relax. Sixth point: relaunching the peace process. Unfortunately, the dramatic events we are witnessing mark the re-emergence of unresolved issues, including Israeli annexations, evictions and demolitions, which, together with the European Union and the United Nations, we have always condemned. We must start from the root causes of the conflict, which generate a sense of frustration that manifests itself in violent forms whenever the Middle East peace process is stalled. The Israeli-Palestinian question must be brought back into the midst of a political process, in the framework of peace negotiations between the parties concerned and through democratic forms of participation and expression of dissent. As I have already said, I have personally sent these messages to Israeli minister Gabi Ashkenazy and Palestinian minister Riyad al-Maliki in the telephone talks I have had with them over the last two days. This issue was also at the heart of yesterday's Extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council, convened to discuss the crisis. We are convinced that the European Union must take a clear and united position and work to restore calm and promote the prospect of a return to the negotiating table. To this end, I supported the opportunity for the Union to develop a proactive diplomatic initiative, hoping that the European Union Special Representative just designed for the Middle East peace process, Sven Koopmans, will be able to travel to the region as soon as possible for direct contact with the parties. Italy's position on the Middle East peace process has always been very clear and firm: we are convinced that it is a central hub for stability throughout the region, and we are equally convinced that the only way to lasting stabilisation is a two-state solution, just and sustainable, negotiated directly between the parties, in line with the parameters established by international law and the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. Only in this way will Israelis and Palestinians hope to live one day in peace and security, one by the other, with Jerusalem the capital of both peoples. We must therefore strive to bring the peace process back to the centre of the international agenda in order to achieve two rights: that of Israel to exist and live in peace and security; that of the Palestinian people to have their own homeland. As I mentioned in my introduction, we must take into account trends that are changing, affecting the regional scenario. The normalization of relations between Israel and certain Arab countries - the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco - is one of these. We have welcomed the Abraham Accords, in the conviction that by bringing Israel closer to the Arab world, these agreements will contribute to peace and stability in the Middle East. But this process of normalization cannot in any way replace the peace process. We are confident that US support for a two-state solution will contribute to the advancement of this hopefully synergistic vision between the two processes. This last wave of strong violence unfortunately makes the prospect of resumption of even minimal dialogue between the parties even more difficult, a stalemate which - I must say - I already found critical during my last visit to Israel and Palestine in October 2020. Once the weapons have been silenced, we know that the slope to be traced will be very steep, but for this very reason every effort will have to be made to revive diplomatic activity, the only possible way out of a situation seriously deteriorated. The prospect of a political process should not therefore be shelved, rather re-launched. In this sense, we are determined to continue the initiative with Spain, to help bring the peace process back to the centre of the efforts of the international community, to reinvigorate the action of the quartet and to raise the profile, for too long, of the European Union on the dossier. The idea of a joint initiative with Madrid in the peace process was born at the Italian-Spanish Summit on 25 November last, when I agreed with Minister Gonzales to launch a joint action on two lines. The first is to move forward the reflection on how the European Union is to work more intensively, by helping to achieve a common position that will enable Europe to play its full role. This is certainly not an easy task in the light of the different sensitivities between the Member States, but we will continue to work with our partners in Brussels in this respect. The second guideline is to develop a series of trilateral consultations with the main international actors interested in the peace process. To date, we have held consultations at senior officials' level with Jordan, the European Union, the United States, the Russian Federation and Morocco, and we intend to continue, including by increasing the exercise at political level. Our aim is not to create new negotiating formats. The Quartet for the Middle East - I would like to reiterate - is the only internationally recognized platform for the mediation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Our aim is, rather, to maintain an in-depth and regular dialogue with all interested parties. We have decided to adopt a realistic and pragmatic approach, concentrating our action, when conditions allow, on two fronts: on the one hand, we want to preserve on the ground the feasibility of a two-state solution, avoiding further de facto annexations, demolitions and evictions by Israel, which are actions contrary to international law. [[Applause]] With this in mind, our concern remains for the risk of eviction to which the Arab families living in the Sheikh Jarrah district and other areas of East Jerusalem remain exposed. I would like to point out that the Israeli Supreme Court itself has also blocked the execution of evictions for thirty days until 9 June. With the European Union and international partners, we will continue to pursue an action that will progressively create the conditions for measures to create a climate of trust between the parties, which we will continue to support together with Spain. On the other hand, we want to relaunch the Palestinian electoral process and reconciliation: essential elements for the consolidation of the institutions and for the strengthening of their international legitimacy and credibility, also with a view to a return to the negotiating table with Israel. It is well known that the deep internal divisions between Palestinians have greatly weakened their credibility at international tables. The postponement of the elections by the Palestinian National Authority, which should have taken place on 22 May, after more than fifteen years since the previous elections in 2006, has led the Palestinian population to mobilize and has lost enormous credibility to the institutions of Palestine. Our hope is that, as soon as circumstances permit, a new electoral timetable will be established and we will continue to support this process so that all conditions are created for the conduct of electoral consultations in East Jerusalem as well. Also in the Mediterranean, Libya is one of the fronts of instability on which Italy remains the utmost attention. Our commitment to support the stabilisation of the country has been and will remain constant. Among the priorities of foreign policy and national security is the most urgent and sensitive one. Thanks to the action of the international community and the United Nations, to which Italy has always actively contributed, today Libya, led by a unified transitional authority, is finally engaged in an institutional transition path that will be completed in the elections, hopefully by the end of the year. After years of internal conflict that have exhausted the civilian population, we welcomed the start of a process based on dialogue, always supported by Italy, the achievement of an agreement on the ceasefire and finally the designation of a unified Government. These are crucial steps in the path to full stabilisation of the country. For the first time, since 2014, we have in Libya a unique political interlocutor, representative of the whole country: an unthinkable goal until only a year ago, while the military offensive against the capital was underway. These important advances, however, must not make us lower our guard. The road to peace and stability remains long and complex. We must make an exercise of realism and look at the many steps still necessary for a complete and lasting stabilisation of the country. The holding of elections on the date foreseen by the road map adopted in Tunis by the Libyan political dialogue forum, the start of an effective process of reunification of national institutions, the full implementation of the ceasefire agreement starting from the withdrawal of all foreign fighters and mercenaries from the country, the reconstruction and relaunch of the economy: these are the most pressing challenges that the Government of national unity is called to face. After years of instability and uncertainty it is essential that the Libyan people finally express themselves in free elections. However, the competent institutions of the country still have to define constitutional, legislative and organizational aspects in order to allow the holding of elections without delay, first of all the electoral law, without which it is not possible to ensure the conduct of the elections in December. It is also essential to define the constitutional framework that should emerge from the elections, the definition of which belongs to the House of Representatives and the High Council of State. Many still remain the factors of internal and external doubt; actors hindering the political process because they prefer to maintain the status quo. It is also a priority for the Government to ensure the provision of essential services to the population such as electricity and water. With this in mind, the failure to adopt the unified budget for 2021 is also making the situation more difficult. In this scenario, the ceasefire agreement concluded in Geneva on 23 October 2020, which remains an absolute priority, is struggling to find concrete implementation on the ground. Despite the recognised determination of the members of the Joint Military Commission and the completion of demining operations in the area, the coastal road between Sirte and Misrata, for example, has not yet been reopened due to the resistance of armed groups that control it and do not want to leave the area. This testifies to how precarious the security situation is, to which is added the continuing presence of foreign fighters and mercenaries who could also fuel a terrorist risk. To accompany Libya on this path Italy's action took place along two lines. The first is that of a permanent international commitment to support the United Nations' action for the political stabilisation of the country. The second director is that of an intense re-launching action in the bilateral partnership to strengthen the national institutions, in the ultimate objective of a united and territorially integrated sovereign Libya. The visit to Tripoli on 6 April by President Mario Draghi (the first abroad as President of the Italian Council), as well as the previous preparatory missions that I carried out on 21 March and, then, with the French and German Ministers on 25 March, as well as the visit to Rome of the Libyan Foreign Minister on 22 April pursued exactly this twofold objective. In the same groove is inserted the next mission in Italy of the Libyan Prime Minister Dbeibeh previewed for 31 next May and during which will take place also a business forum that will allow the main Italian economic actors to interloquire with the Libyan Prime Minister and several members of his Government. There are many bilateral initiatives. We have promoted the strengthening of the Italian political-institutional presence in all the regions of the country through the reactivation of our Consulate in Benghazi. The inauguration of our consul Carlo Batori and the establishment of an honorary consulate in Sebha are scheduled for May 26th. Farnesina has also started the procedures to reopen an office of the Agency for Foreign Trade in Tripoli and for the progressive reactivation of the Italian Institute of Culture in the Libyan capital. Our action has also launched projects which were provided for in the 2008 Italo-Libical Treaty of Friendship, Partnership and Cooperation and the resumption of airport infrastructure projects to restore and facilitate future domestic air links with Italy. Other areas in which this action is being developed include health, cultural, university, defence and energy cooperation. In this regard, I would like to thank all those from Farnesina who have worked on it, in particular Ambassador Pasquale Ferrara, special envoy for Libya. At international level, the United Nations Security Council has signed and unanimously voted on two resolutions which photograph the situation of the peace process in Libya. The ministerial conference will be held in Berlin on 23 June to give even more impetus to international coordination. Let's get to our fishermen. It is clear from my statement that, despite considerable political progress, the situation on the ground is still very uncertain in terms of security. The Libyan Prime Minister Dbeibeh's difficulty in traveling to Benghazi, two weeks ago, is also testimony, since he was denied permission to land. In this context, the events of 6 May, off the coast of Misrata, which involved some Italian fishing vessels, including the "Aliseo." This bad episode has dramatically relaunched the theme of the progressive territorialization of the Mediterranean Sea and the security conditions. The incident occurred about 35 miles from the Libyan coast, north of Misrata, when the group of nine Italian boats, engaged in the fishing of red shrimp, was reached by a Libyan motorboat in marine police activity. The Italian fishing vessels were promptly warned of the imminent arrival of the Libyan unit by the frigate "Libeccio" of our Navy, which was near, - I would like to thank the men and women of the Italian Navy [[Applause]] - and have quickly taken a route away from the area. In order to stop one of the boats of the group, the Libyan motorboat opened fire, with small arms, in the direction of "Aliseo," hitting the bridge and some superstructures and causing wounds, fortunately light, to the commander. I would like to stress this once again, and we have clearly said this to the Libyan authorities: we consider it unacceptable that one of their units fired at Italian boats, exploding many blows that could have had far more dramatic consequences for our seafarers. The arrival on the scene of the frigate "Libeccio," whose command could directly interloquire with that of the Libyan motorboat, has prevented further actions of force. Not only that. The contextual contacts of our embassy in Tripoli with the local authorities have avoided the seizure of the fishing vessel and its crew and the risk of the repetition of the event, dramatically known, which had led, last 2 September, 18 seafarers of Mazara del Vallo to a detention of more than three months and the seizure of two fishing vessels. The extremely serious episode of May 6 also testifies once again that the area off Libya where our fishing vessels operate is very dangerous. On at least three other occasions, in the last two and a half years, similar events have been resolved, prevented or prevented only by timely interventions by the diplomatic corps in Tripoli or by a unit of our Navy patrolling the area. This is an area that the Interministerial Coordination Committee for the Safety of Transport and Infrastructure has defined, since 20 May 2019, with a measure still in force, at high risk for all ships flying the Italian flag, without distinction of type (in fact we do not recommend to go there). On several occasions this risk had been reported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, last but not least by a letter from the head of the Crisis Unit to the mayor of Mazara del Vallo, the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, the Coast Guard and the Navy. The danger comes not only from the conflict situation that has characterized Libya for several years. The areas where the fishing vessels concerned go are located within the protected fishing zone proclaimed by the country in February 2005. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which on this point incorporates customary international law, gives the coastal State the right to unilaterally declare an exclusive economic zone, which may extend up to 200 nautical miles from the base line of the territorial sea, but provides that the external limit, in the case of opposite coasts adjacent to those of other States, is defined by agreement, on the basis of international law, in order to achieve a fair solution. In practice, many States have exercised this option in part through the establishment of smaller areas or the enjoyment of a limited number of sovereign rights. These more specific areas are not expressly covered by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, but it is common ground that they comply with it. The proclamation of the protected fishing zone by Libya is therefore legitimate in itself. Italy had expressed formal reservations about the Libyan proclamation, through the British and German Presidency of the European Union, in 2006 and 2007; but our comments focused mainly on the closure of the Gulf of Sirte and not on the legitimacy of the protected fishing zone itself. I say this, Mr President and Senators, because at this moment I could launch the challenge on the other side and say that those waters are ours, but as Minister of the Republic I would expose our fishing vessels, I would be warning them to continue to go to those waters and risk the lives of our men and women, and I will not do that. We will start all the processes to negotiate an agreement with the Libyan counterpart, we will promote the interlocutions between the Libyan and the Italian marines, we will favor and patronize all the agreements between private subjects, in order to allow, bilaterally, to fish in those waters. But those who today tell our fishermen to go there, because they are also our waters, are exposing them, at the cost of their lives: we have seen it more than once in these years. [[Applause]] There are two initiatives, which we have started over the last year and in particular in recent months, with the new Government. Firstly, when the Foreign Minister visited Mangoush here in Italy a few weeks ago, we started a process to negotiate an agreement on maritime boundaries. On this, Mr President, of course, in full respect of Parliament, there is here an important bill, which awaits a final vote - last, of course, if you will and if you will not return the text to the House of Members - which allows Italy to regulate its exclusive economic zones and to proclaim them more easily. If we have the opportunity to enjoy this new regulatory instrument, we will be able to do the actions that other countries do. However, I must be very honest: the agreement with Greece, which is similar to what we are talking about, in which the historical right of our fishermen has been recognised, Italy took twenty years to negotiate it and we closed it a year ago. So we cannot give false hopes to our fishermen, but we must help them, and that is why, with Minister Patuanelli, we are going to convene a table, which concerns the suffering that is experiencing the Marinery of Mazara del Vallo, to which all the closeness and solidarity of me and the Government goes. [[Applause]] It is not, as someone has said, a question of giving them subsidies, but of helping an economic sector, which at the moment has every right to claim the difficulty in which it finds itself, because in addition to the pandemic there are the difficulties of a fishing, which in some waters now no longer sees marine fauna and on the other hand, it sees the possibility of going fishing. They are people, fathers and mothers of the family, who get up every day to go to work and who have all my respect and respect. We must help them in the right places, but we must not endanger their lives and therefore the Farnesina will continue to discourage access to those waters, until we have reached an agreement that is up to the situation. [[Applause]] I want to say one last thing and then I shut up: I don't want to dump responsibility on someone else. The subject is as dramatic as it is simple: in the last ten years in Libya there was not even a single government with which to try to negotiate, to decide who those waters were. We now have a unified government, but a peace process still under way, in which we need to carry on all the steps we need, so that all the Libyan parties, both East and West, will recognize the possible agreement that we are going to sign. Otherwise, we'll be on our way and we'll expose our marines once again. Thank you once again, Mr President, and I am at your disposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u226	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u227	Mr President, Minister, the issues you have addressed are many, I want to start with the end and express solidarity and solidarity with you in the search for a tiring agreement that you are making with regard to the issue of Italian fishermen and the agreements on territorial waters and waters in which this right of fishing will be possible. We are with you, I do not believe that there can be anyone in this Parliament who prefers to exploit the inconvenience and economic difficulties rather than constructively address this chapter. Having said that, Minister, and also saying that I agree with the approach you have given to frescoes in the Mediterranean, I would like to call on my fellow senators today to understand exactly the situation in which the Italian Government and we are operating. We have very great responsibilities and when I speak of responsibility, I am not referring in particular to Italy, but as parts of an international community we have very great responsibilities. In fact, we have been illusory in these years that the silence that surrounded the Palestinian question, the Arab-Israeli conflict, could be something that miraculously resolved and removed the issues on the table. I believe, like all of you, that I am a strict defender of the right of the Israeli people to live in peace, but in the same way, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot forget that the repeated policy of settlements, which has completely broken Palestinian territoriality, makes an exasperating issue on which the international community has sent down a rock of silence. When we do not speak in the international community, it means that in some way we are complicit in the situation that is being determined. (at 19.08) (Followed by CASINI). To this we add, Minister, an issue; let us go quickly, but follow the fresco you have made. You have reminded me of your repeated missions; I have done your personal appreciation for these missions and I repeat them to you in public, but let us not forget the picture we have before us. Our President-in-Office of the Council went to Tripoli, there was a controversy with Erdogan, who the next day simply called the entire Libyan Government to go to Istanbul. He basically gave an answer that was the worst we could expect, a sort of subliminal message: you go there, I call them here and I call them all, from the armed forces to the Libyan institutions. This happens, however, because the American abandonment of the Mediterranean has brought today a new protagonism of Russia and Turkey. Today, Minister, I want to say to you that the only serious thing that the Italian Government can do, beyond the rhetoric, condemnations or the very right issues we are talking about, is to call the Americans to assume their responsibility. It's a historical nemesis: I remember the manifestations of those who said to the Americans "go home," "go home." Well, now I say let us go and call them home because without them the imbalance in the Mediterranean is so strong that a divided and weak Europe in terms of foreign and defence policy will never be able to resolve it. I would not like to be in the shoes of our Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, who, in my opinion - now I do not know if I am jokingly making them an appreciation or an offense - must decide you - is in the wake of the best foreign policy in Italy, so you are doing what is right in the continuity of foreign policy. His hands, however, are bound by an international situation so that, without the deep agreement and complicity of the United States of America, we will not be able to solve these problems. Think of what happens, she said earlier: in these years, in silence, Hamas has fortified the underground and today has weapons of rockets of the latest generation. Look at the amount of rockets dropped against Israeli civilians. In Israel the settlements continue in the Palestinian areas as if nothing had happened and in this affair we have a paradoxical legitimacy, that is, in Israel they were making a government against Netanyahu, which they failed to realize because Netanyahu took advantage of the issue to stand as a guide. On the one hand there are the contradictions of Israeli politics, which paradoxically benefit from this situation, and on the other hand there is a Palestinian situation in which for fifteen years we have been unable to renew parliamentary representation, with the exasperated people, with Hamas who benefits from this, as it benefits from the new condition of the Mediterranean, because it is supported by Qatar, Turkey, from other parts of the Sunni world. Well, ladies and gentlemen, before this situation we can only hope that Europe, in a new multilateral consultation with Biden, will persuade the United States of America to play a role in this area, because otherwise we will be unable to determine any substantial change in this area. Abraham's Agreements have been concluded between Israel and certain Arab countries; they are useful agreements and we are glad that they have been signed, but these cannot be a way of surreptitiously overcoming the Palestinian question, because the Palestinian question remains there as a boulder. This is not a problem that sees one part or the other of Parliament, I believe that we must be honest about this: we must realize that two peoples exist and both have the right to remain at peace, but both have the right to see their children grow up with some future perspective. A terrible element in this story is that for the first time the clash between Arabs and Israelis is not only in the territories, but it is in the Israeli cities, that is, an additional poison has been inserted that brings discord and division within the same territory of the State of Israel. We have many elements of concern and remember that Fanfani, Andreotti, Colombo, but also Craxi and the great republican and socialist traditions have always placed Italy in defence of Israel, but with great attention to the Palestinian question and the Arab world, because it is the world that we share in the Mediterranean. I hope, therefore, that in the conciliation of renewed multilateralism there may be a joint initiative between Europe and America, because I do not see an effective alternative. If we go on alone, we risk being absolutely complementary and unable to make our contribution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u228	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u229	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation for the balanced position he has brought to the attention of the Senate. Senator Casini's intervention puts me in a position to cut for at least a minute some of the considerations I wanted to make, precisely because I share it. However, I would like to stress two aspects of your report, Minister, because they are the two poles around which Italian foreign policy has developed over time (its representatives in the past have also been mentioned, from Craxi to Andreotti to De Michelis) up to the proposal that you put on the table today: the right to peace and security by Israel, on the one hand, and, at the same time, the right of the Palestinian people to have a certain and certified homeland. What we know is that, despite the agreements signed several times, last of all the Abraham Agreements, first even those of Oslo and then of Camp David, the conflict is resumed. Unlike the past, since the international political scene has changed and is changing, what is happening, if we fail to silence the weapons, risks not bringing anything good. On the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, unlike the past, there is a sort of tribal dance of regional powers, which exercise on that narrow strip of land their power in the making. Names are the ones we know. She also made them: Russia, Turkey and Iran from within. The news is the government that heads Erdogan. It's an extra element. On this, I am much more pessimistic than my friend Senator Casini about Europe's main function without waiting for the action of the United States of America and the new Biden Presidency. I say this because what is happening is the son of a story that has lasted for more than half a century. There is no doubt that it has been stirred up by bad weather and decisions, which had the previous President of the United States, Trump, at their head, but there is no doubt that the foreign policy of the Americans, since President Obama, compared to the Middle East, has assumed characteristics different from those of those who preceded Obama to the American presidency until the most recent tradition. What we know today is that on both sides extremes, short-sighted leadership groups on the Palestinian side and on the Israeli side are prevailing, internal political reasons that succeed in making extreme positions prevail. On the one hand, there is a people who live in large cities, who have and must exercise and enjoy the right to security; on the other hand, frustration, poverty, barbed wires and military occupation in fact, a wall looming over what legend relates to being "the manger of the Redeemer Christ." This is the picture of the real. There is no doubt that the excess of provocation on the Mosque Spying on the day of the end of Ramadan and then the launch of missiles generated a provocation; but there is no doubt that that provocation was just as exaggerated. In conclusion, I would like to highlight three aspects quickly. The first is undoubtedly the right of Israel to security. Secondly, the Palestinian people must be granted the restoration of rights that have been harmed. Thirdly, we must start from what international law does, the UN resolutions, in order to recognise the dual right to security in the lives of two states. If the Italian Government, together with the Mediterranean and coastal countries, succeeds in carrying out this function, in close relationship with the European Union, it will have taken the right path for the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u230	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u231	Mr President, the Minister has spoken of many extremely interesting issues, but for reasons of time, I too will confine myself to speaking little and only about Jerusalem. An incredible thing is happening these days, because a wave of lies is submerging the Palestinian people just as it is under the bombardments of one of the most efficient armies of colonial occupation in the world. The clashes of which we read every day are not equal, they are not clashes between two equal and equivalent contenders, they have never been. The shocking thing is that with difficulty we can find hints of historical reflection that can lead us back to the truth. Yet only from an act of truth can one try to start again. The latest Human Rights Watch report of April 27 declares the Israeli State guilty of crimes against humanity, crimes of apartheid specific. I remember that Human rights watch is, together with Amnesty International, the most authoritative, serious and independent voice in the field of human rights at the international level; its legal judgment was drafted in a 213-page report; the publication comes in the aftermath of two weeks of clashes and violence in Jerusalem. What happened so from the beginning of Ramadan to mid-April Jerusalem is on the brink of the explosion? It all began during the sacred month for Islam: the Palestinians of Jerusalem have the habit of meeting in the evening near the gate of Damascus, one of the accesses to the mosque of the old city, but in mid-April the Israeli authorities closed the area to the Palestinians. This is a humiliating measure, applied without giving any explanation, which has provoked the protests of the Palestinians, repressed by the Israeli police. This shows once again that Palestinian citizens are not considered as citizens as well as others. Their very presence is not tolerated, in the face of integration and the mixed cities of which the Westerners speak. In fact, they are places of discrimination, where the Israeli crisis is rotting, which does not tolerate having 7 million Palestinians on the land of historic Palestine. The Covid, once again a litmus test, shows us with the numbers: in the occupied territories more than 60% of Israelis are vaccinated, against 3% of Palestinians and the anti-Covid centers are bombed. Moni Ovadia wonders why, the announcement of the Holy See to recognize the State of Palestine, the Israeli Government protested; it is replied that Netanyahu does not want any Palestinian State. This is demonstrated - he adds - by the law that excludes Palestinian Israelis from full citizenship which is reserved only for Jewish Israelis. Of all this in the Italian press there is little or nothing. Everyone has focused on Hamas, but to be in favour of Palestine, Minister, does not mean to be in favour of Hamas, because Hamas is not in favour of Palestine, he uses it; however, being against Hamas cannot in any way mean to be with Netanyahu. The people are always the ones who pay, definitively hostage to the political power that opposes any solution of peace. Netanyahu and Hamas use war to survive politically. This time the focus of this umpteenth crisis is not the Gaza Strip, but East Jerusalem, the last theatre of the consolidation of an occupation that makes the solution of the two states increasingly anachronistic and illusory. There is no equivalence in this conflict ever more forgotten by international public opinion. There is an abysmal asymmetry fed by what should have been the peacemaker, the United States, who with Trump took the most significant steps in the division, deciding not to consider the colonies of the West Bank and no longer occupied Gaza territory. Yet the Palestinians of East Jerusalem, annexed to Israel since 1967, are not considered citizens, enjoying only a status of residents, which can be revoked at any time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u232	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u233	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, my fellow Senators, I understand and share the reasons for the alarm that is spreading over what is happening in the Middle East, but I do not think it is useless, even having heard this last speech, to reason on what is happening with us in the West. Therefore, the Kurdish people vis-à-vis Turkey; the Uyghur, Tibetan and Mongolian minorities vis-à-vis China; the citizens of Hong Kong again vis-à-vis China; the Armenian people of Nagorno Karabakh vis-à-vis Azerbaijan and therefore Turkey, in fact; the Venezuelan citizens vis-à-vis the authoritarian regime of Maduro; the people of Abkhazia and Ossetia in Georgia; the Tamils in Sri Lanka; the Karen population in Burma... President, I could go on for half an hour. I am content with myself, but I assure you that the list of peoples seeking state, minorities - rightly or wrongly - considered oppressed is exterminated, literally exterminated. Ethnicity by ethnicity, religion by religion, language by language, I could continue this list for a long time. And I should certainly put on this list also the persecuted Christians in Somalia, North Korea, the Moluccas Islands, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Congo, Nigeria. In short, every day they are killed from 13 to 18 Christians, only as Christians. Western elites do not tend to deal with all this. I do not see demonstrations of the streets to defend these peoples, these ethnic groups, these religious minorities; I do not see collections of signatures, I do not read vibrant editorials, I do not think there are a lot of Heads of State or Government, political leaders, international human rights organizations that take charge of these enormous and immense sufferings, which are before our eyes, if we wanted to see them. It seems to me that there is only one case in which Western elites are mobilized with great passion and emotional involvement: the case of the Arab-Israeli conflict, between the Palestinian people and the State of Israel, a state which, according to Hamas, would not have the right to exist. So, if logic still has some space between our ranks, the possible explanations I believe are only two: either there is a particular cultural, political, strategic, geopolitical, religious affinity on the part of these elites with respect to the Palestinians or there is a particular hostility towards the State of Israel. Now, I will be wrong, but in all sincerity I do not see this affinity, not the response; I therefore assume that the problem is the State of Israel. But what does the State of Israel have other than others? What is the specifics of the State of Israel? The specific nature of the State of Israel, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, is its nature. I therefore believe that it would be appropriate, intellectually honest and correct, for the sake of historical truth, also as a form of self-analysis for each of us, if we had the intellectual courage to admit that - not always, of course, but in most cases, or at least very often - anti-Zionism is the good habit of anti-Semitism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u234	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u235	Mr President, Minister, the sirens, the night illuminated by the missiles of the Islamist terrorists of Hamas, the anguish of being struck, the hope that the defence system will enter into action: this is what the citizens of Israel feel under attack on their nights. The latest Israeli-Palestinian crisis has seen more than 3,000 rockets launched by Hamas against Israeli cities and targets, including Jerusalem, which is the cradle of our civilization. We have also called for a firm condemnation by the Italian Government to reaffirm a long life for Israel, which defends the right to exist in peace and coexistence between peoples. I would therefore like to mention a few very important words that the president of the Jewish community of Rome, Ruth Dureghello, launched last week: Israel is under attack. At this time, missiles are raining on Israeli citizens from Gaza. For this reason he invited everyone to the Portico of Octavia, last week, for a demonstration of closeness and solidarity to the friends of Israel and peace, because "The friends of Israel and peace are welcome." Here, these words are, in my opinion, very important. Above all, I remember in this House that we were at the Portico d'Ottavia. There was the League with Matteo Salvini, but there were also other political forces: there was Forza Italia with Tajani, there was PD with Letta, there was the Boschi and there was also the Movimento 5 Stars. We were all at the Portico d'Ottavia and I want to remind you that our leader Matteo Salvini has also received very serious threats precisely for his presence and for his affirmations, and for this reason we renew our solidarity with our Matteo Salvini. [[Applause]] I believe that in foreign policy we must also say where we stand, and we know where we stand; Italy knows where we stand, and you, our Foreign Minister, are well aware that you must demonstrate it every day. I would like to say that we had already made an important choice with the yellow-green government contract - perhaps someone will remember it - in which it was written in black and white that Italy has a privileged partner, a historical friend, namely the United States. It goes without saying that, if our partner is the United States, then the State of Israel is also our privileged partner and those who attack Israel attack us and also democracy. Unfortunately, however, I must point out a fact on which we were very surprised, namely that this week Javad Zarif, Iranian Foreign Minister, visited here in Rome, of that nation which many indicate just as the real destabilising element of the Middle East area. Israel's ambassador to Rome Dr. Eydar sent a very hard message of condemnation, through the columns of a daily newspaper, precisely to the Iranian Foreign Minister, saying: "Whatever moderate element in the Middle East seeks to implement normalization with Israel, you Iranians threaten it." We believe, especially during this period of conflict so intense between the parties, that initiatives that show an attitude of tolerance towards certain subjects such as Iran are certainly not to be approved. It is certainly not through actions that foment hatred among the peoples that we will be able to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian question. It is certainly not in dialogue with those who foment that hatred that we will finally bring stability to those territories. As you said, Minister for Foreign Affairs, one of the possible solutions will certainly come to the fore in the coming weeks, which is that of the two peoples in two states. We'll see if that's the way to go and whether it'll solve this conflict. Surely we will have to put credible and recognised interlocutors at the same table, but he is certainly not a Hamas interlocutor, who launches thousands of rockets against a sovereign people, knowing that 20% of those rockets will always fall on the Palestinians. I shall end my speech by repeating again the concept that in foreign policy we must be able to choose which side to take; Italy has already done so and its words have shown us this. We all did it together last week at the Portico of Octavia, together, at the side of Israel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u236	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u237	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are many Jews and Muslims who are repeating these days: we refuse to be enemies. One example is the hospital staff of the HaEmek Medical Center in the Israeli city of Afula. In fact, the international press reports how the doctors and nurses of this clinic, both Arabs and Israelis, engaged in the rescue of the victims of the bombings, sing every day a popular song, "Od Yavo Shalom Aleinu," which in Hebrew means "Peace will come again": a song of good hope, together, as an appeal to the end of the clashes and return to a peaceful coexistence that in these hours unfortunately still seems far away. Between Israel and Gaza in the last ten days there have been 63 children killed by the attacks, another 400 have been injured and the clashes still do not mention stopping. Over 4,000 rockets have been launched between Israel and Gaza, at least 50 are damaged schools. I have deliberately avoided distinguishing which and how many rockets have fallen in Gaza or Israel, how many schools have been destroyed in Gaza or Israel, or how many of the children killed were of either nationality. I wanted to avoid distinguishing, because it is not a matter of geographical or religious belonging. The civilians and children who are dying are a drama of all humanity, because the dead have no color, no religion. That is why we reiterate that the indiscriminate launch of rockets and mortars against Israeli settlements is unacceptable and, in the same way, we tell Israel that the legitimate right to defend its people against terrorist attacks must not justify acts of disproportionate force against the Palestinian civilian population. As Italy Viva we support the mediation efforts of Europe, the United Nations, the United States and the Russian Federation. The main objective must be an immediate ceasefire and a progressive de-escalation, leading quickly to stabilisation, and then working on a lasting solution to the conflict, that is, the prediction of two states, so that both peoples can see recognized their right to exist and to have a place to live and to fully exercise their worship. In fact, if it is true that the problem between Israel and Palestine is a confrontation between religions, between Jews and Muslims, it is also true that it is a conflict for survival spaces, for the earth. Not surprisingly, the trigger that gave rise to the launch of Hamas missiles to Israel last week came from yet another attempt to evict Palestinian families. It is a reality: Netanyahu has been a prisoner of the extreme fundamentalist right for decades, claiming settlements and expanding its colonies to the detriment of a progressive marginalization of the Palestinians. So, if you want to go back to talking and working for peace, this situation must be stopped. We must not let extremists determine the course of things. The dialogue must be resumed in order to create the conditions for giving concrete expression to the principle of 'two peoples, two States', which to date is the only solution to guarantee peace. The attempt of the Abraham Accords, drawn up in September 2020 with the aim of promoting privileged relations between Israel and some Arab countries, risks not having any development. Israel's attacks on Palestine have provoked rage in different places in the Muslim world, even in countries that adhere to the Abraham Accords, whose leaders now, in order to quell the disputes, distance themselves from Israel, so that, after years in which it seemed that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict could be shelved and the Palestinian demands could end in oblivion, the actuality of the attacks shows instead that that conflict continues to be central to the solution of the Middle East problems. That is why we need an additional effort to achieve a lasting solution. Without a political agreement, there will be no peace and we are the first to have everything to lose in the instability of the Mediterranean. We are also thinking of Libya, where it is also essential to contribute to the stabilisation process, by endeavouring to legitimise the fishing of our fishermen as soon as possible and, above all, to prevent further aggression against our fishing vessels. The Middle East issue is an important test, with which we are measuring ourselves and Pope Francis is right, who said in his homily last Sunday: Do we really think of building peace by destroying the other? And then he asked for the path of peace. Only in this way can the song of the freedom of doctors and nurses at the hospital in Afula be realized quickly, demonstrating that Arabs and Jews can really succeed in not being enemies anymore. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u238	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u239	Mr President, the Brothers of Italy have configured themselves in this Parliament, and all the more so in comparison with this Government, as a patriotic opposition and the opposition is always patriotic, in every context, especially when we talk about national interest, when national sovereignty is at stake, when we define foreign policy that does not concern parties; it concerns States, it defines States and therefore nations. For this reason, Minister, it is not surprising that the Brothers of Italy are today, on these issues, seeking solutions, not to denounce problems, but to find the way to solve them. This also applies to our fishermen and their right to fish and work in international waters. This is so true that, after the episode of the seizure of Italian fishermen by the forces of Haftar, we tabled a motion in Parliament on 2 November last year, to define what could be the road that Italy could have pursued to resolve the problem, which is not only that of territorial waters with Libya. In that ten-point motion there is a whole strategy that a country, a nation, should implement in a unified and cohesive way in politics to be to define the maritime borders of the Mediterranean. It is no coincidence, in fact, what is happening in the Mediterranean: it is born from the awareness that the future of peoples passes through the economy of the waters of the seas; because the Mediterranean is not only the sea of fishermen and their families, which we must support and protect. It is also the sea of mineral resources, energy, renewable energy, submarine cables; the future of peoples passes into the oceans and especially the Mediterranean. Defining maritime borders means implementing a policy that Italy, unfortunately, has not pursued and that Europe does not pursue to solve the problems of borders, which are not only those with Libya; they are those with Algeria, Cyprus, Slovenia, even France, as well as Croatia. All this is part of a policy that we have defined in Parliament with a special motion and we would like it to be discussed together on an occasion to define and pursue it, today's government and those of tomorrow, which cannot be compared and clashed in this, because it is the Governments of the nation that implement foreign policy and national interest, however and always. This applies to the question of water for our fishermen, but it is true - and not by chance - for the whole of the Mediterranean, because in the meantime that you have been summoned here, Minister, something else has broken out and something else is about to break out. The problem is gigantic and Italy is at the heart of the problem and of the conflicts, because in Libya today the European powers are no longer confronted; the Sunni powers are confronted with the weapons of ideology and often also of fundamentalism. And the absence of Europe has caused it; European divisions have condemned Libya to what has happened. The same is true - I want to say with awareness - with the same interlocutors, in Palestine and Israel, because no one can escape what President Casini used to say. After Draghi's visit to Tripoli and after Italy returned to be the Atlantic ally in the Mediterranean of the United States, Turkey reopened the routes of migrants, this time not in the Balkans, but in Libya, because the boats have since left incessantly, because they are a weapon of political pressure against Italy and Europe. And the patrol boats are being trained by the Turks today. It is no coincidence that Turkey has also fueled what is happening in Gaza, because the one who blows on fire is, unfortunately, the Erdogan regime with which we must live, knowing that Italy also has many interests in Turkey, but also well knowing how that regime moves. Well, in the land of Palestine and in the land of Israel there is everything; there are not only the suffering of Jews and Muslims, but also that of Christians, because Jerusalem is the holy city for all of us and for them. All of us, to some extent, in our political history have deluded ourselves with being able to do something. I myself, when I was in the government, have been three times in Israel. I met Shimon Peres, Sharon, Olmert in their experiences of government and Abu Mazen. I brought 100 Italian entrepreneurs to Jerusalem to meet, in a convent of nuns, Palestinian and Israeli entrepreneurs. All of us are deluded and we all go back there and we must not resign ourselves to go back there, just as unfortunately we all found ourselves, once again, at the Portico d'Ottavia. How many times each of us has been forced or felt the need to go to the ghetto, to the Portico of Octavia, before the synagogue to say with force that we are all in defense of the security of Israel, also because with Israel and with the European and Western peoples we share the same fundamental values, which are those of Jewish, Christian and Roman civilization. With others we must obviously confront ourselves as partners, but one thing is to share values and be allies, another is to deal with others so that peoples can progress in peace. We must give this certainty as Italians, therefore as Europeans and, consequently, as Westerners, therefore as Atlantics. Well, at the Portico d'Ottavia we went many, too many times. Now we must return to that land and understand that if that issue is not resolved there, the rest will not be resolved. The Mediterranean has become a powder keg today and we are in the middle. Minister Di Maio, I understand that it is difficult, because Europe is even weaker today, because the process in Germany makes what might be our main partner (Germany) weaker in the Mediterranean context. It is clear to everyone that the European crisis is of the roles and the lack of European foreign policy, alongside the absence of the United States in that context, has determined the presence of regional powers that conflict with each other for supremacy in the Islamic world and not only for issues that can be territorial, economic and dynastic. When there were great powers, they regulated the balance of the world. I'm not here today. The new global conflict, of which we must be more aware than others, is between those who trample them (China) and those who do not want to give up (the West). The difference from the past is the rights we have to take care of in China and everywhere. China, in fact, an authoritarian and totalitarian power in which rights are not recognized, can become today, unlike the past, the greatest world power. It had never happened, even during the period of the Soviet Union, that there was this real threat. Today there is this threat and that is why we are deeply interested in the rights of the peoples in Hong Kong, Taiwan or the Uyghurs. They didn't threaten us before, but they could threaten our children tomorrow. So, today more than ever, we must make ourselves strong as Italians of the stakes. All this passes through the Mediterranean. That is why in Parliament we, the patriotic opposition force, ask you to define a clear and clear position of Italy. We can do this today more than ever with our European and Western partners to have that role that is evident in what our soldiers are doing as a force of interposition in Lebanon. There are no bombs there, because there are Italian soldiers, with their sacrifice and courage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u240	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u241	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation for the detailed presentation which would surely merit an analysis of all the dossiers he has touched on. I leave Libya and then focus on the main theme of your speech. I think that Italy has moved in time, this time, and has grasped the window of opportunity that has opened with the advent of the new Premier and with an attempt at unification to which international diplomacies worked for a long time. So it is good for Europe to move together (and when I say Europe, in this case, I am referring to the coordination of the foreign policies of the main countries, in particular France, Germany and Italy). We were the main actors and I remember his visits, Minister Di Maio, and that of Prime Minister Draghi, who opens a new phase from a commercial and political point of view. Referring also to the incidents involving our fishing vessels, I think this is an opportunity to try to open a negotiation phase with Libya to resolve the issue of fishermen once and for all, with a clear agreement in terms of exclusive economic zones. I would like to take this opportunity to thank also the women and men of the Italian Navy, who deserve our thanks and applause because, if it has not happened yet what we have seen in the past, it is thanks to them. [[Applause]] However, I think it is now our duty to define why we must not, as in the past, witness the agreements made by Federpesca, with the government that pretended not to see. It is right to respond to a sector that is important to us, such as the fisheries sector, and to establish a very clear agreement with Libya. Let's get to the main theme. On behalf of the Democratic Party, I would like to express my full solidarity with the Palestinian people and the Israeli people - both the Arabs and the Jews - for the mourning and suffering they continue to suffer, obviously not because of them, but because of those who govern them. I want to stress that the government has moved to the main multilateral forums to immediately call for a stop to the use of arms and the ceasefire. From this point of view, the condemnation of Hamas included in the list of international organizations is good enough for the indiscriminate launch of rockets on Israeli cities, which affect Jewish and Arab citizens indifferently and sometimes there is no scrupulous use of children as human shields. There are more than 200 dead, the vast majority of them on the Palestinian front, with more than 60 women and 40 children. From this point of view, just as we firmly condemn Hamas, we must tell Israel to stop, using clear and clear words. [[Applause]] I'll add a point. To a country with which we have established political and diplomatic relations, to a friendly country, we have a duty to remember with extreme clarity the awareness of our own strength and military superiority. This disproportion of force cannot and must not be to the detriment of the Palestinian population and often of defenceless civilians. [[Applause]] We must remind a democratic country of this even more forcefully. I say this because it is clear that the context is damned complicated and to a greater extent than in the past. We are witnessing a situation in which Netanyahu, for twelve years in power and struggling with his judicial troubles, seemed to be able to be permanently put at the door of Israeli politics, with Lapid's attempt to form a new government. The emergency and probably even calculated and studied provocations brought Netanyahu back to the center of the scene and failed Lapid's attempt, which would also bring the united Arab list within the new coalition. The responsibilities are evident in the Spianata of the Mosques right during Ramadan, with the symbolism that in those lands is even stronger and especially with the provocation of evictions in Sheikh Jarrah. That is one of the most delicate principles: reaffirming the right to return to those martyred lands, in which episodes and experiments of integration are strenuously attempted; the right to return practiced, pushed and tolerated by the Netanyahu government places a wound difficult to detect and a boulder on the project of the "two peoples, two states," of which the international community often fills its mouth, but which risks becoming an empty declamation. [[Applause]] On the Palestinian side there must be no alibi, because even al-Fatah cannot say that it is only Israeli fault, that it did not allow the vote within East Jerusalem. It is evident that al-Fatah was in a crisis of consensus and that there were even three lists presented, not only the supporters of Abbas (Abu Mazen), but also those of Barghuthi and those of Dahlan, who questioned al-Fatah against Hamas. Two extremisms, Hamas and the government led by Netanyahu, which put into crisis a peace process that has opened. The other great issue on which I want to conclude, but also to be extremely clear and to draw the attention of this House, is the framework of international breakdown and the impotence of the international community, which the Covid has exacerbated (as the Minister said in a passage). The diplomacy of masks is evident and attempts are evident to rebuild a new geopolitics and also a new international order. With regard to the relaunching of the quartet's initiative, Minister, we also have to deal with the weakness of all the actors: Russia's weakness, not by chance challenged by Turkey in the Mediterranean, and the weakness of the United Nations system, which has confined itself to a pilatestic appeal, talking about the right of Israel to defend itself and, on the other hand, the right to self-determination of the Palestinians. The United States has in fact long since emerged from the onusian system, because the damage done by Trump we measure them also in this affair and in this passage, with the weakness of the United Nations, orphans of the United States, and with China that does not by chance try to fit in and even host from them the new round of a meeting between the main Palestinian and Israeli actors. As far as the United States is concerned, we expect a change from Biden and that they will return to being protagonists in the Mediterranean and the Middle East. [[Applause]] Abraham's Accords, with respect to the stalemate there was and to an international community sitting on the paradigm of the "two peoples, two states," had opened a new path and had forced some Arab countries, especially the Gulf monarchies, to confront themselves with the recognition of Israel and to speak with the Israelis. At this point, however, Israel must be asked to follow, because the opening of credit that has been given needs to be supported. And who, if not the United States, can open this new phase? [[Applause]] In Biden I think we can ask this, to be with us on the main challenges. I understand that it must also open the new dossier with Iran and that it must understand whether the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) can be re-launched, so it must sit at the table on the nuclear. The United States, however, is crucial. It is no coincidence that the left wing of its party, with young progressive and democratic women such as Ocasio-Cortez in mind, calls for it to be consistent, because it calls for respect for human rights in China, Hong Kong and Saudi Arabia, so it must also be asked of Israel, when it does not respect the most basic human rights of the Palestinians and goes on with the settlements, not taking into account all the United Nations resolutions that said that they should respect the commitments made in this respect. It is clear that the United States needs a stronger Europe: I close on that, Minister. You have measured with hand the difficulty of building even one common position: the difficult task of Borrell, when he confronts the Eastern bloc of countries such as Hungary and Poland, which do not hold back from taking sides regardless of and beyond the facts always with Israel, and the one constituted by Greece and Cyprus for other reasons, geopolitical, in an axis with Egypt and Israel of defence and protection compared to Turkey, certainly more understandable. The greatest responsibility is on the shoulders of the great countries. I think that, if we no longer want to be ambitious, the time has come to overcome Europe's 27th taboo on foreign and defence policy issues; and I think that the conference on the future of Europe can represent this moment. 20 o'clock (Followed by Alfieri). A strong political Europe needs more courage: coordination of foreign and defence policy is not enough, but we need to invest more in Europe. Meeting the major international challenges requires a united political Europe, with a single foreign policy and a single defence policy. We must have more courage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u242	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u243	Mr President, Minister, we thank you for your information, which we have appreciated, and for accepting the request made by our Group to discuss what is happening in Palestine over the past few weeks. We have done this, firstly, to urge and support an international initiative for the immediate ceasefire. The price that civilians and children are paying is too high and can only be unacceptable for the whole international community. The little time available requires starting from elements of truth, which in the general narrative - it must be recognized - is substantially obscured. Too many words of circumstance have been heard these days. We need to understand the context, to explain what is actually going on. It is not enough to condemn Hamas' criminal and violent actions, nor to say that Israel's defence, without ever forgetting the disparity of its forces with the Palestinians, cannot come to the detriment of civilians, children, hospitals and international information. In addition to the immediate ceasefire, there is a need for a new international initiative that overcomes the guiltful inertia of these years and, with courage and determination, does an operation of truth, not removing the Palestinian question, as unfortunately has been done in recent years. Otherwise - and I want to say this clearly, as other Members have already done, which I have appreciated - the statement "two peoples, two states" sounds like useless and empty rhetoric. I would point out that, historically, Italian foreign policy - I am also addressing colleagues who have said things other than what I am about to say - has been marked, at international level, by the ability to stimulate the dialogue of peace and the confrontation between Palestinians and Israelis. It is a value that we must not disperse and I have appreciated your communication for that, Minister. In recent years, extremists have gradually been allowed to take hold, both in the Palestinian people and in the Israeli people, who have been fueled in the search, in fact, not for a peaceful solution, but for an absurd final solution. Thus, over the years, a dramatic vicious circuit has been fed. Israel feels increasingly insecure, the Palestinian people have been living, in fact, for decades, a situation of military occupation, while the other part, that of the Israeli Arabs, lives a situation of subordinate citizenship in the State of Israel, which treats them as guests, with different rights. In recent years, it has left its free hand to the occupation policy of the Palestinian territories, without anyone intervening. No one can accept the question of Israel's security, but we must ask ourselves whether it was right to let the UN resolutions be so blatantly ignored. What did all this lead to? How has it come to the point that Hamas' Islamism and Erdogan's role have taken on a broad consensus in the Arab world? A dramatic break was surely the recognition by Trump of Jerusalem as the capital of the Israeli State. Perhaps we do not understand well the extent of this choice, which is wretched and symbolic, with a huge weight in that territory, which has put the situation in the Middle East further and heavily in crisis, once again tearing down the specific UN resolutions. The clashes of past days on the mosque floor by Israeli Arabs - Israeli Arabs, Israeli citizens - are the result - why hide it? - unilateral choices of the Netanyahu Government, such as the threat of eviction of about twenty families in the East Jerusalem district, based on a 100-year-old lawsuit. The problem, however, was evidently not the legal cause. We are talking about the Palestinian State, but the colonization of the territories that basically no longer have an administrative unit is taking place. All this has contributed to delegitimizing the old political leadership of Palestine, with its errors and limitations, and has strengthened Hamas' Islamist extremism, which, with its madness and violence, is paradoxically the best friend of the extreme right of Israel. Moreover, it is clear that Hamas and the Israeli extreme right are held and that dramatically their role is all to the detriment of both the security of the Israeli people and the cause of the Palestinian people and the peace process. This is demonstrated by the fact that these events have already had two very negative effects: on 22 May they had to hold, after fifteen years, as you rightly pointed out, the elections in Palestine, in which Hamas was being defeated and the birth of a new Palestinian leadership, perhaps capable of carrying out dialogue in Israel. On the other hand, in Israel, after four general elections in two years, a coalition was being formed that could have reached the parliamentary majority thanks also to the four parliamentary votes of the Israeli Arab Party. It will not be a coincidence that all this has happened, an event that would have opened a new phase in the relationship with the Israeli Arabs and in the politics of Israel. After the crisis, these possibilities vanished. This spiral of violence must now be interrupted through the international initiative, a new role for the United States and Europe, a less timid role than in recent years, particularly in the United States. What has happened on Italian fishing vessels is inconceivable. This isn't the first time. We share what you have said about Libya and the fisheries issue, but we must, Minister, as we have long been asking for, make a choice. The relationship with the Libyan Coast Guard must be resolved and the relationship with the Libyan Government must be re-discussed, because we are faced, as the many international relations tell us, with a series of behaviours of constant and unacceptable violation of human rights. Finally, Minister, a request: the Senate asked on a motion to give the Italian citizenship to Zaky. What initiatives do we take? In my opinion, a calm and peaceful attitude towards Egypt would, however, be an important signal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u244	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u245	Madam President, Minister, I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for your clear and unequivocal words of condemnation of Hamas as a terrorist organization. If the international community does not have the courage to ban this organization, unfortunately peace in that land will be very difficult to reach. I had thought of doing a certain kind of intervention, but listening to some recent speeches I would suggest reading a little less harmful, less rich in commonplaces. Israel was born, as you well know, in 1948 from a determination of the United Nations. That land was divided into two states, the State of Palestine and the State of Israel. The Palestinians did not accept that resolution, especially the countries of the Persian Gulf. Israel accepted it and became a state, cultivated and raised all the fundamentals of a democracy. As you well know, those who govern a territory must guarantee two fundamental principles: peace for their people and prosperity. In all these years, Israel has never put in place any acts of aggression in neighbouring countries. The whole recent history of this state tells us that it has always suffered military aggressions from neighbouring countries. I would like to remind you of some of them. The most important was the six - day war. In that case it was not Israel that attacked, but suffered an attack; it occupied Sinai and through the treaties of Camp David gave that territory, returning it to Egypt and normalized a relationship between states. It is not true, therefore, as I have heard from some of my previous colleagues, that Israel does not love peace: Israel is the culprit of peace, because without peace it cannot guarantee prosperity to its people. This has been the case with the Oslo Treaties and therefore with the bilateral treaties with Jordan and other countries. I would not like to recall all the treaties. I am sorry that on Trump someone glissed, because Trump had a merit: after thirty years of total provision, with President Casini said, of politics on the Middle East, someone put their hands on it and reached another agreement of normalization with Arab countries, I think of Bahrain and I think of the Arab Emirates. Beware, therefore, because it is true that many dynamics are the result of domestic policies, I simply remember that the Middle East is an international stage, many exploit Palestine as an international stage and it is an all internal confrontation to Islam, which has been perpetrated for years in different places between Sunni (which conform to the Sunna) and Shiites and this risks becoming, unfortunately, a disrupting element. Peace can hardly be added if we do not understand these elements. I would remind my colleagues that Israel is populated by 8.3 million people, perhaps few know that. I am a Christian, I was born in that land and I do not think I have less rights than the Jews of that land, in the most absolute way, and I remind all of us that 1.3 million Israelis are Arabs of Muslim Islamic faith and I do not believe that they have lower rights. I ask you for the example of another Western country that boasts these numbers: Italy, for example, hosts 700,000 people of Muslim religious faith, just over 1%, while in Israel there are more than 15% and the vast majority respect democratic rules, respect the State of Israel. The suggestion, therefore, is not to fall into the clichés. That is a democracy, apart from the domestic policies that I can also share, but we cannot put the various dynamics of that territory on the same level. I would also like to focus on some of the things I have heard in this House. As to the proportion of the response, someone wondered how it would be possible for Israel, which has more military facilities, to use them. I ask only one trivial and rhetorical question: but if we were attacked with 3,000 missiles by a neighbouring country, who governs this country would pose the problem of how to defend the security of its people or would the problem of how to react in a proportionate way? And who determines the proportion? This is an issue on which I hope that there will be a debate which will be more open to controversy and prejudice. We all hope that peace will be born there, but through the recognition of the State of Israel, because I have difficulty in imagining that a State can tolerate sitting at one table with another claiming that it should not exist. Israel, in its sevenfold history, has shown that those who respect the sovereign state of Israel can only deserve fruitful bilateral relations. He testified. One last suggestion, Minister: on Libya, I thank you for your capacity for moderation and prudence, typical of Italian diplomacy. It is okay to be fair and close, as a Christian Democrat doctor said, but sometimes it is also necessary to choose, because if we do not choose, we risk the marsh being born. And in the swamp, what is happening right now in Israel happens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u246	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u247	Mr President, I bring to the attention of the Minister an equally important problem which has been affecting Italy for a long time. Despite our timely compliance with the many European and international laws, there has not always been reciprocity with other nations. I would like to take up the facts that you mentioned earlier, all of which occurred in international waters and have seen the protagonists of Libya, Tunisia, Turkey and the Libyan Coast Guard, who seized an Italian fishing vessel with its crew. On another occasion, the commander of an Italian ship was wounded by gunshots by a Libyan boat: almost a mockery, if you think it was one of those donated from Italy to Libya. If our Navy had not promptly intervened, this incident could have had far more serious consequences. In Italy migratory flows have never stopped from the Balkan route, as well as the thousands of immigrants who sail from the Turkish coast, coming also these days on barchini, sailboats and boats of fortune. It is important, however, to clarify an ongoing contradiction. If our Minister of the Interior, in order to defend our European borders and the redistribution of the people who arrive in our country, asks for the concrete and effective solidarity of Europe, how then can a German ship gather 400 people in Libyan and Maltese waters and hijack them only in Italy, why does the Maltese State refuse to accept them? [[Applause]] The rules governing international waters indicate that these persons may seek asylum from the flag nation of the ship that has taken them to safety. Instead, the application for asylum is only requested by them after landing on Italian soil. The imminent arrival of the summer will lead to an increase of this phenomenon. If we count more than 13,000 immigrants from January to today, the level of concern will become even higher. They look ready to leave already in 65,000. In addition, the outcome of recent judicial investigations has found illegal behaviour between non-governmental organisations and human traffickers, far from being considered aid. The rescue tool thus set, without any rules even of identification, involved the landing of criminals. I don't think I have to dwell on particular episodes: just look at the newspapers that report constant acts of violence against Italian women, children and men, completely unaware of becoming the object of barbarism. [[Applause]] Moving, then, from an economic point of view, it is good to remember the sustained budgetary debt (200 billion deviation) and the use of the same European debt, over 200 billion on the PNRR that we have in this House approved. Our families are unable to guarantee themselves a job, to pay the mortgage, to think about the future of their children. Is this the answer to the serious Italian demographic crisis and the fruitless incentives for birth? The citizens are alarmed, they do not understand why the state cannot give more incisive answers, they feel the lack of fair legal and economic protection, while understanding the need not to be indifferent to those who are really in need. Allow me an important, strong and ancient quote, but very timely: in the 300 B.C., Plato admonished the Athenians by saying to them: "When the citizen accepts that whoever happens to him at home can acquire the same rights as those who built it and were born to us, when the leaders tolerate all this to gain vows and consents in the name of a freedom that devours and corrupts every rule, so democracy dies: for abuse of itself. And, before in the blood, in the ridiculous. I believe, Minister, that we need a breakthrough quickly before it is too late. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u248	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u249	Mr President, tonight I put the children to sleep in our bedroom, so that when we die, we will die together and no one will live to mourn each other's loss. These are the words of a mother in Gaza, a mother resigned to death, a mother who clearly sees the fate of her family marked by the horror of war. We're all gonna die together, so no one's gonna have to cry. A thought filled with love in the middle of a war. Hate and violence where will they lead? They need dialogue and forgiveness. These are the words of Pope Francis. This war has produced yet another massacre of the innocent: the dead are more than 250, of which 12 on the Israeli side and 240 on the Palestinian side, but can you ever make the accounts of the dead? [[Applause]] The wounded seem to be more than 1,500 and then there are the children, the most devastating victims in all: there are more than 60 children who died just to be born in a handkerchief of land contended by powerful men who say they want peace, but continue to wage war. [[Applause]] The dead are dead. They have taught me that the victims are colorless and that violence must always be condemned, regardless of who resorts to it. Amnesty international is talking about war crimes, not only because of the indiscriminate launch of rockets from Gaza, but also because of Israeli bombings on the strip that struck without warning many civil buildings, including two that do not seem to be military targets, namely the tower that housed the headquarters of Al Jazeera and the Associated Press press agency, and the only laboratory of analysis of Covid swabs present in the Gaza Strip. In the Gaza Strip, the pandemic situation is already dramatic. In April 2021, 60% of Israelis were vaccinated, against only 1% of Palestinians. The first vaccines for the inhabitants of the Palestinian territories came from the Covax programme, the mechanism of the World Health Organization (WHO) to supply the poorest and most developing countries: this is 70,000 doses in front of a population of over five million. Doctors without frontiers speak of a drop in the middle of the sea; Save the children said that 50 schools were destroyed or severely damaged in Gaza in the last week. What is the future for children if schools are destroyed? Despite the obvious disproportion of forces, the victims of this situation are both peoples who suffer the consequences of the actions of those who want war. It is never the people who want it, that war suffers it, but the one who uses war to show his muscles and preserve or take power. On both sides war is used for biech power games. Four parliamentary elections in two years, on the one hand, and no election since 2006, on the other, testify, in fact, to an impressive stalemate, which led to the strengthening of positions and the instrumental re-explosion of tensions. War sucks! [[Applause]] War should become a taboo, as a priest I know says. The international community has a duty to act, to quell the struggles and to end the fire, this time permanently and forever. Rockets, mortars, missiles and all weapons of war must be decommissioned from that area. Peace is not done with war. Respect for international law and all UN resolutions must be restored. Human rights are not negotiable; it is not the right to live peacefully in one's own homes and not even the right to exist, both that of the Palestinians and that of Israel. In a tragedy, such as the one that lives in the Middle East, one must be united in shouting "Cease fire." After that, action will have to be taken to reconnect the dialogue between the parties and arrive at the only logical solution: that of two states according to the boundaries indicated in the UN Security Council resolutions, in particular No 2334 of 2016, which establishes the illegality of all Israeli settlements established in the occupied territories of the West Bank and East Jerusalem. Annunciations, demolitions and evictions generate frustration and contribute to violence and for this they must be condemned, without any fear. In 2017, then President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the undivided capital of the State of Israel. Pope Francis immediately said that Jerusalem is a unique, sacred city for Jews, Christians and Muslims and has a special vocation to peace, of which the status quo must be respected. The Trump 2020 plan then legitimised all Israeli territorial annexations, in open conflict with UN resolutions. The radical change of the American policy of the Trump era has not produced the effects of pacifying the area, on the contrary, has exalted its oppositions, destabilising already precarious balances, not only in the Palestinian territories, but also in Israel, where 21% of the population is of Arab origin. It is time for the United States, for the sake of its historic ally, to return to a role of mediation in order to stop the conflict and restart the peace process. For this reason, the contribution of Italy and Europe is also crucial. We strongly believe that the Italian G20 Presidency is an opportunity for our country to promote a secular approach to the Israeli-Palestinian question. From this very point of view, once the bombs, missiles and rockets have stopped falling, I think it is necessary for the Italian Parliament to express its support for the recognition of the Palestinian State. [[Applause]] , in the borders prior to the occupation of 1967, with Jerusalem shared capital, as provided for in UN resolutions and as they have already done 139 states, including the Vatican. Already in the last legislature, the Movimento 5 Stars spoke on the subject and in 2019, with the first-signed motion by my colleague Gianluca Ferrara, we asked the Government to recognize the State of Palestine and to propose that all the countries of the European Union do the same. It would be a very important contribution to a just and lasting peace, based on respect for international law and the legitimate aspirations of both peoples to live in peace and security. In conclusion, a mention about Libya; its stabilisation and normalization are an absolute priority for our country, for the role Italy has played in that area and, in particular, for the fishing sector and for the energy sector. A thought goes to our fishermen in Mazara del Vallo, who have often found themselves working in dangerous waters. Our country must continue to work, even if the path is still long and is made difficult by the influence and interests of other countries. Also for this reason I believe that we all have a duty to return to commit ourselves to finally close Pandora's box uncovered with the crazy armed intervention of 2011. To conclude and return to the Middle East, I want to close with the words of Franco Battiato, great Italian poet who died yesterday. [[Applause]] In a passage from one of his songs he said: How miserable is life in abuse of power. It's good that we all remember that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u250	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, whom I thank for being available.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u251	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u253	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, today we have examined a number of reports on the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution on the indisputability of the views expressed by Members in the performance of their duties, including my own. On the contrary, I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that I did not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. [[Applause]] , as one colleague said. The House voted by taking political responsibility for the citizens and their voters by putting our faces, as they say. During the debate, however, I also remembered Articles 54 and 64 of the Constitution. What do they say? The first states that the citizens to whom public functions are entrusted have the duty to fulfil them with discipline and honor, while Article 64 sets out the autonomy of the two chambers. So, where has Article 54 gone if it is normal to cancel a decision of the Presidency Council suspending the vitality of the former convicted senators? [[Applause]] And where has Article 64 gone if an internal court, made up of politicians who are not entirely the expression of the people, can cancel, as happened yesterday evening, a decision of the Presidency Council in which all political forces are represented? I would like to go beyond the words "vitalizing yes" or "vitalizing no," because I realize that if some knots are not dissolved on the discipline and honor of the representatives of the people, the Senate risks slapting citizens who in full pandemic fail to reach the end of the month. I therefore call on all my colleagues to have a debate in this House, because that is the only way for the citizens to understand the political side. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u254	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u255	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u256	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, tomorrow is the ninth anniversary of the earthquake in Emilia. At 4,03 a.m. on May 20, 2012, a severe shaking of the ground took Emilia by surprise; in reality, nothing surprising, except ignorance and negligence, still reigning today in the matter of seismic risk. There the earthquake had already hit hard in the past, but it forgets; remembering serves the future. The well-known compression of the Adriatic plaque towards Europe has reactivated two well-known inverse faults that originated the earthquakes of 20 and 29 May 2012, of magnitude 5.9 and 5.8, and of intensity up to the eighth degree of the MCS scale. These earthquakes have hit the low Modena: 1,000 square kilometers, 230,000 people involved. Carpi, Cavezzo, Finale, Medolla, Mirandola, Novi and many other municipalities have suffered enormous damage: affected historic centers, rural buildings and sheds; twenty-seven victims, mostly employees of destroyed companies; affected schools, hospitals and churches; damage for more than 13 billion euros. On the other hand, the response of the buildings built recently in concrete was good. This is yet another confirmation that reducing vulnerability minimizes seismic risk. The current legislation for this area contemplates that the new constructions should not collapse if urged by horizontal acceleration of peak to the ground (PGA) up to 15 percent of the acceleration of gravity, here statistically expected with return times of 475 years, net of the local phenomena of amplification of the motion. In fact, Mirandola recorded a PGA of 30 percent, that is double, expected with a return time of 2,475 years. Building and adapting with this more precautionary limit that I am proposing in decrees and bills would prevent collapses and deaths. In the earthquake in question, a lot of damage was caused by secondary geological effects, such as soil deforestation. These effects can be prevented by seismic microzonation studies, which allows adequate planning. We need to invest in knowledge and prevention at all costs. Preventing seismic risk costs ten times less than rebuilding and avoiding tragedies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u259	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on 28 April this year Mr Roggero's jewelry store was the subject of an attempted robbery in the blood. Mr. Roggero reacted, fatally wounded two robbers and in a less serious way a third and is now accused of excess self-defense. But what does excess self-defense mean? The three entered the shop armed with a knife and a revolver, then turned out a toy to which they had removed the red cap that identified it as a fake; they punched his wife and immobilized his daughter with electric bands, had them deliver jewels and when he could Mr. Mario reacted. But what can push an honest man of sixty - six, who has never had trouble with the law, to shoot? I'm telling you, fear. Fear for himself and especially for his family. Yes, because Mr. Roggero is an expert in jewelry and not a ballistics expert, because in 2011 he had already been robbed and brutally beaten by criminals and only after this he had bought a gun. And then, knife and fist were real, awfully real. If we are to identify victims, these are definitely not the robbers: two criminals with criminal records who wanted to make the leap of quality, equipped with a toy gun because they were aware that, in case of arrest, they would not have aggravated. People who may know how many other times they had terrified of robbing good people, with real or fake weapons that they were, and who now wanted to make, precisely, the leap of quality. Mr. Mario and his family are victims. I sincerely believe that he currently has serious problems sleeping at night, because killing someone upsets people for good. Luck has meant that the two were hit in the chest and not in the shoulders, otherwise for him an endless judicial and media Calvary would begin. I am well aware of the emotions that the Roggero family may have felt as a colleague of theirs; I am well aware of the agitation and attention that each of us experiences every day in the two critical moments of the opening and closing of the shop, or when a customer enters and you understand that he is much more interested in the type of alarm system than the goods that asked you to see. And more importantly, I know how it feels when they put the gun to someone's head that you love. In my case, they bet them, in two different attempted robberies, to my grandfather and my grandmother. I dare not think how I would have reacted if my daughter had been there. Finally, from my point of view, Mr. Roggero is a hero. [[Applause]] He simply defended family and property from the intrusion of someone who had knowingly entered with hostile and violent intent. It's not a trial, it deserves applause. Those who decide to violate the property of others with evil intent must consider that they can get out of it badly or, at times, that they cannot get out of it. We are on the side of Mr. Mario and of all those who have found themselves or will find themselves in his situation, because the defense must always be legitimate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u262	RAMPI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Marco Pannella said: When you leave, you must see how many are those who make your absence a presence. Here, for five years Pannella has found a different way to be present in Italian politics and certainly we lack in these five years his physical presence, which was imprudent, put the body in his actions and put his life to give the strength to others to do what they needed. However, in these five years, there are many issues that Marco Pannella has tried to emphasize in the political debate and on which your point of view would have been valuable. Let us try, then, to make his absence a presence. I am thinking of extermination by hunger, of how important it is today in the dynamics of migration, rather than telling it in a simplistic way in another way. I am thinking of the debate we have just had on Israel and Palestine, of the far-sighted proposal of a bi-national state that guarantees the citizenship rights of all and that is also guaranteed by the European Union. It is precisely on Europe, at this time when the conference on the European Union is taking place, that we should think of a Europe that is wider, larger, more federal than the form of national states. And again, the justice with the reform that this Government wants to carry on, the prisons: there are many issues, and on all of them the relationship with the other, the non-violent method, the idea of dialogue, the function of Parliament, the centrality of politics. Well, of all these, there's one that I'm particularly fond of. The last battle of Marco Pannella was for the right to knowledge, which is the basis of democracy. In just a few days, next Friday, in the Committee on Culture of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we will approve my report on the right to knowledge, which will begin the path - which will end in June, after two years - to make this a new human right. I believe that, five years after this change in Marco Pannella's way of being present in Italian politics, this is a small goal that we deliver to keep living his presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u263	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-328.ana.u264	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 20 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.42 p.m.
