ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, approved by a majority the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 24 September. Without prejudice to the topics foreseen in the current week's schedule, next week, in addition to the possible follow-up to the unfinished topics, the decree-law on the safety of school and transport activities, currently being examined in the Chamber of Deputies, will be discussed. To this end, meetings are scheduled for Tuesday, 21 September, until Friday, 24 September, if necessary. On Wednesday 22 September, at 9.30 a.m., the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy will make a statement on the protection of the designation of controlled origin of the prosecco. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. The Assembly and the Commissions will not be held in the week from 27 September to 1 October, in relation to the local elections of 3 and 4 October 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 14 September 2021, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 24 September: [[Wednesday 15 September h. 9.30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2382 - Decree-Law n. 105, Emergency COVID-19 and security social and economic activities (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on 21 September) - Drawing of law n. 1662 and connected - Delegation of civil trial (final vote with the presence of the quorum) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2353 - Delegation of criminal trial (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) (where concluded by the Commission) Thursday 16 " h. 9.30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 1662 (Delegate Civil Procedure) and No 2353 (Delegate Criminal Procedure) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, September 21 h. 16,30-20 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 111, Exercise in safety of school activities and transport (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on October 5) - Information of the Minister for Agricultural Policies on the protection of the denomination of controlled origin of the "Prosecco" (Wednesday 22, 9.30) Wednesday 22 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 23 " h. 9.30 Friday 24 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No... (Decree-Law No 111, Safe Exercise of School and Transport Activities) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. The Assembly and the Commissions will not be held in the week from 27 September to 1 October, in relation to the local elections of 3 and 4 October 2021. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2382 (Decree-Law No 105, COVID-19 Emergency and safety social and economic activities) (Groups 3 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 111, Safe exercise of school and transport activities) (Groups 3 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u8	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, not so much in this House as in the Commission. The Budget Committee that I chair has been called upon to express its opinion, as is usually the case, on the measure on the civil trial, which is being examined in the Justice Commission. Unfortunately, there has been an unfortunate incident in my view, which I hope will not create a precedent: the Commission has not waited for the opinion of the Budget Commission to express its opinion on all the amendments, voted on them and sent a mandate to the rapporteur. It's very unpleasant, because if we have rules, they have to be followed. I agree with the fact that there is a great deal of haste to approve that measure, and I agree that that draft law was on schedule, even if the latter states that the completion of the work in the Commission was still to be expected, but that is not the case, because we have rules. I therefore speak for the Budget Committee, which calls for these things not to happen again. I hope that this will be discussed in the Presidency Council, because I think it is necessary. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u9	Senator Pesco, I gather your indication, that you will be present to the offices concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u12	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, as you have just mentioned, the Conference of Leaders met yesterday, but the Brothers of Italy Group did not vote in favour of the proposal for a timetable, because we have asked - and I would like to reiterate this here in the House - that the debate on the draft Zan law should also be included in the timetable for the current week and the next week, as well as the acts on the contested elections in the Campania and Puglia regions, which I shall end with. Some have felt that this request is either a parliamentary tactic or an instrumentalization, in fact it is simply a question of making political clarity, because until a few weeks ago, before the election campaign for the local elections began, all the representatives of the center-left told us that the Zan bill was very urgent, that it must be approved very quickly; for this reason the work of the Commission had also been overwhelmed, the bill had to come to the examination of the House, avoiding even the discussion of amendments in the Commission. This is because that provision was a cultural and political watershed between the barbarity that we are living and the civilization that would open after its approval, a watershed between the progress and the obscurantism that exists in this country that has not yet approved the Zan bill. I would like to remind the dozens of actors, journalists and singers who committed themselves day and night to the approval of this bill, to all those who jumped at fish to find five, ten, fifteen minutes of popularity, because it had become the political theme on which everyone recognized themselves, because it was extremely urgent and fundamental. Now it is no longer, it was not last week, it will not be this, it will not be the next, it will not be for the whole month of October, because the local elections fall on 3 and 4 October, then there will be the ballot, then there will be the discussions after the ballot, then I imagine that in November we will begin the discussion of the accounting documents in view of the budget law. We would therefore like Parliament, the Senate in this case, to express itself in relation to the fact that the Zan bill is important or no longer important, if ever it has been, and if it has now become so little important that in fact you, by not voting on our proposal to amend the calendar, put the Zan bill on a dead track, waiting to celebrate its funeral in November. Brothers of Italy took the political responsibility to tell Parliament and the Italians that with today's vote the draft law Zan disappears from the political agenda of the Italian Parliament. Someone had to say it. We took on this responsibility. [[Applause]] The second, shorter, question concerns the letter that the President of the Senate sent to the Leaders, following a reminder from President Gasparri of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Here too we have asked for clarity; it has been a long time and it is useless to discuss the wrongs, the reasons and the responsibilities of this delay. We have proposed that a time limit be set within which the House is debating these disputed elections. That too has been rejected, and that is why we shall be voting against the timetable and we shall vote in favour of our proposal which calls - I repeat and summarized - for the so-called Zan bill to be drawn up and also for the acts of the Assembly of Elections and Immunity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u15	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, it is well known that we have a very busy schedule of measures that are not only important, but fundamental, necessary and indispensable to bring home the money from the recovery plan. Essential measures such as the reform of justice and the issue of the green pass, which are very important and must be approved now, on which there is everyone's responsibility for the health and recovery of Italians. There are times when, regardless of the role of the opposition, which we obviously respect and recognize, tactics are at zero; there are times when we must possibly stay on strategy and not on sterile tactics. What has been done just now is clearly a proposal for the 'engraving' of parliamentary work and the removal of a measure to which we attach great importance. If you want to use the Rules of Procedure of the Senate to lower the measures and to make regulatory traps on very important issues, let's say so; the opposition can announce it but say that it is. Let there be no banners that do not belong, also because I understand that the request for the non-passion to articles on the so-called Zan bill has not yet been withdrawn. Whoever has spoken is therefore a force that wants to bring this measure down. [[Applause]] Then you speak on the merits, with those fine arguments that we know and use on this subject, but on which we are accustomed to confront ourselves without any fear, without any hesitation and without any retrocession. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to remind you that it is the Democratic Party that has proposed this measure, which bears the first signature of a member of the Democratic Party. This party has removed this measure from the Commission's quicksand [[Applause]] , raising it to the dignity of the debate in this House, recognizing and defending the role of Parliament, also with the different positions that we know exist within it, to behave with loyalty, appealing to the comparison and the protagonism of the same, because it is a measure of parliamentary initiative. Do not use the Rules of Procedure to tear up an important debate that must have its dignity and does not deserve to fall into parliamentary mines and traps while we are dealing with important measures. [[Applause]] So the colleague of the Brothers of Italy has no fear; we will bring him to the Assembly immediately, immediately after the adoption of the measures on which it depends to obtain the recovery plan, and we will approve it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u18	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I have been tempted to take the proposal of the Brothers of Italy Group as a sincere concern in relation to the adoption of the draft law Zan. In my optimistic vision I wanted to imagine an evolution of the political position of Brothers of Italy. I'm afraid that's not the case. The instrumentality of the proposal is very clear and therefore not commentary; we do not use the mechanism of the Regulation to do a political battle while we have such significant and indispensable measures in relation to the PNRR. However, I would like to reassure my colleague, as Senator Rossomando has already done. We confirm our full intention, as soon as the conditions are met, to conclude the general discussion and to approve the Zan bill that we believe is right and important. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u21	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the first thing I want to say is welcome to the club. We're pleased with that, at least I am. You know that the position of Forza Italia with respect to the Zan bill is both clear and composite. Yours is amazing. We are pleased to know that you entered the Zan club; even if you did so late, welcome. [[Applause]] As far as we're concerned, Zan's bill is serious. We absolutely do not allow ourselves to question the reasons, motivations and reasons behind others. Mr Ciriani said that it is not parliamentary political tactics; for Christ's sake, we would never have allowed ourselves to think of anything like this, also because in every criticism there is an autobiography, so never and never would have thought of a desire to break down the Zan bill in the Assembly, lacking respect for the rights of the subjects it wants to protect. [[Applause]] As far as we are concerned, this debate, of course only formal and not substantial, nothing takes away the intention of Forza Italia to work for the modification of the Zan bill. However, nothing will prevent us from avoiding that it is only a hasty calendarization and, moreover, as far as we are concerned, even deviated from the agreements that have been made. Mrs Rossomando is right; during the Conference of Group Leaders, in which everyone had more to argue on the subject, this issue did not emerge either from the colleagues of the Brothers of Italy. We therefore believe that it is a late harvest this morning, a desire to have in the Assembly the draft law Zan that emerged in the morning in the colleagues of Brothers of Italy. I would suggest that they resist: resist another month, if you succeed, and then bring the measure to the House, all together trying to modify it and make it as best as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u24	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to reiterate our position: we will vote against this proposal for a timetable because we stand by the commitment made yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders, which takes into account the fact that, in addition to the two decree-laws on the green pass (this week and next), there is the reform of the civil and criminal process. So, I'd say there's no room for other measures right now. I am a little surprised by the attitude of Brothers of Italy; I only hope it is a tactic and not a change of political orientation on the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u27	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, it is sad to see that there is no limit to hypocrisy in this House either. The Assembly is committed in these days to approve decrees-laws that expire for the green pass, an instrument of freedom that allows all Italian citizens and citizens to be able to re-appropriate their cities, to travel freely, to take advantage of the services of the cities without fear of being infected ruinously and end up in intensive care. There is a red thread, in fact, linking this to the request for calendarization of the so-called Zan bill against homolesbobitransphobia, because even the LGBT community wants to be free to go around our cities, to stay at the jobs, in the places of fun without suffering discrimination, insults or aggressions. Here, it is surprising that the demand comes from a political force that only increases prejudices and fears, on the green pass and on the LGBT community that now suddenly seems to support. But it is clear that it is only a political instrumentality even quite petty, since it is essential freedom of the individual in both cases. The Movimento 5 Stars, of course, has always been in favour of the approval of this bill as it was originally designed, but it is clear that the advanced request is merely instrumental, so we answer no. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u30	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I note that since Mr Malan passed to the Brothers of Italy, for the Brothers of Italy the draft law Zan has splashed among the priorities of the calendar of the Senate Assembly; this is already an event and I think it is important to stress it. In fact, just as it is true that other political forces have expressed the need to include the Zan bill among the priorities, I must also say that Brothers of Italy, whenever we put the issue as a priority, always said that it was not a priority of the country, but that other issues had to be dealt with because others were the priorities. Mr President, I think we should have dealt with this before the summer, when there were opportunities to approve it. Today, introducing this issue into the electoral campaign for the local elections would only hurt us. Since we have to amend and approve the text with the widest possible majority, I think it is appropriate to resume the debate on the Zan measure after the local elections, as we agreed at the Conference of the Leaders, among other things. Everything else is instrumental. It was from those who said that it should be approved immediately as it was because in that way consent was built, but the provision was not approved; it is today by those who, after having said for months that the topic was not to be discussed, say that instead it is a priority issue. I would like the intervention of the president of the Fratelli d'Italia Group to be made to travel around the country to make it clear how Brothers of Italy used this topic in a radically opposite way to what it had previously seen. We therefore approve the bill after the local elections with the broad consent of the parliamentary forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u31	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u34	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to point out to my colleagues who have spoken - who are more or less elegant, even if we do not obviously lend ourselves to the controversy - that the intention of Brothers of Italy is to call on Parliament to reflect in some way a debate which for practically three to four months has filled the national community with information more or less true and that at this moment, like many other events related to the contingency of government operations, has disappeared in a striking way. The position of Brothers of Italy is absolutely clear and does not change and I believe that this is incontrovertible. If yours is equally clear, why has this measure disappeared from the timetable of parliamentary work and why is this three weeks after the administrative vote? Are you afraid of the reflections of this issue on the administrative vote? It should be the opposite, colleagues. If you are so sure to raise the banners that belong to you, as Mr Rossomando said, raise them and take credit for them. We raise our banners and are not afraid to do so in the vicinity of electoral appointments. So, using the Rules of Procedure to be smart is stuff that belongs to you, not to us. We want to bring Parliament to a transparent debate on issues that could also be interesting in the election campaigns for the election of the mayor of the nation's capital, which is imminent. If you do not have the courage to do so, it is you who lowers your banners; we hold ours well and do so in this House too.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u35	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, made by Senator Ciriani, to include the discussion of the draft law Zan and the examination of the documents of the Junta of the elections and of the parliamentary immunity on the contested elections. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u38	OSTELLARI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I do not want to be controversial, partly because I believe that in these days the country does not need it; above all, we do not need polemics here, that we are all together trying to give useful answers. I did not listen to Mr Pesco's speech first, but I have been told. I therefore basically intervene to shed light on what has happened, saying that nothing abnormal has happened, nothing useful to create controversy. On the contrary, what has happened - and I am addressing President Pesco - should be discussed among us, perhaps in other places than this, and I am not avoiding this debate. In this regard, I would like to point out that the amendments we voted as a Commission of Justice in relation to this measure, which is expected from all over the country because it has implications for the PNRR too, the 5th Commission has had them for months and those amendments have not been given the opinion in seven days. Despite this - Senator Pesco knows - we of the 2nd The Commission met for several meetings, including in August, until 10 or 11 August, and then resumed on 29 and 30 August. We were here; where were you? We spoke by telephone and discussed the deadline and the proposals to be made. You and I, Mr Pesco, have agreed to complete our work in the second Commission and to allow the 5th Commission to assess in some way, despite the expiry of the time limits, any problems that may arise. That's what we did. You were well aware that we could already close Thursday last week, but, precisely because I am interested in the reports, we have dealt with each other and sent the dossier to you and your Commission for opinions, although we could already - I repeat - close. We called yesterday at 6 p.m. - and you knew that - to give the term of office to the rapporteurs who are called to report to the House today. That being said, it seems to me to be a useless controversy, not useful to us. On the other hand, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have worked, despite these great difficulties, even among the Commissions; we have observed the opinions that you have issued, because some of the amendments have been removed. All the work we have done together (I say so) is useful today to bring home a provision for the country. We must talk about this and not about the failure to convene a meeting before or after that. The invitation that I address to you, Mr Pesco, is therefore to close the controversy here and to continue to work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u40	Senator Pesco, I cannot allow a debate. Each of you has rightly brought your own reflections. If you consider that the matter needs further examination, we shall discuss it separately with the President. You know, of course, that the 5th Commission will still have to give its opinion on the text. I would ask you now, kindly, to continue with the work of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u41	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2382, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would ask the President of the first permanent Commission, Senator Parrini, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to say that the Commission is unable to complete its work on examining the measure. We had the general discussion, after the incardination, and we examined and voted on the agenda. However, the number of amendments tabled and the need to obtain opinions which, when we met, had not yet arrived, did not make it possible to complete the work in time compatible with the timetable of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Parrini's report, bill No 2382, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u44	Mr President, the Decree-Law under consideration, No 105 of 2021, introduces measures of extraordinary necessity and urgency in relation to the Covid emergency, renewing existing restrictive measures and introducing certain obligations, in particular, in Article 3, the use of the Covid-19 certification (issued in any case in compliance with the provisions of EU Regulation 953/21) to access certain places or services. Those measures must in any case comply with EU Regulation 679/2016 on personal data and comply with criteria of proportionality, effectiveness and necessity. This was highlighted by the European Commission by a note dated 26 August 2021, sent to the attention of stakeholders active in the field of fundamental rights. Without prejudice to the fact that doubts arise that the EU regulation 679/2016 can be said to be satisfied where it is allowed to a restaurateur, barista or bouncer to process health data without consent of the owner (Article 9 of the regulation would apply which does not contain similar provision referred to in article 6, paragraph 1, which instead allows a private person to process personal data in order to comply with a legal obligation), strong criticalities emerge also from the possible discriminatory use of passes as an unsuitable selection tool for the purpose of guaranteeing the protection of public health. In the light of the news that can be found in numerous newspapers, it is clear that the holders of the Covid-19 certificate, improperly called green pass, achieved after vaccination and not after buffering, can infect (think, for example, at the outbreak at the hospital Sant'Eugenius in Rome). This is clear from the reading of the vaccination consent form against the Covid-19, in which it is clearly stated that the vaccine does not contain the virus to induce immunity, thus admitting with absolute and indisputable certainty that those who are vaccinated are not immune from contagion at all. Therefore, those who have obtained such certification by buffer, thus demonstrating that they are perfectly healthy at the time of entry to the places where the Government intends to impose quota access, do not currently enjoy any protection in coming in contact with those who have obtained the green pass through vaccination, being subjects that can undoubtedly infect. It should also be mentioned that people with green passes who have been infected have not seen their certificate disabled, as well as people who have obtained the certificate once they have declared recovery after 21 days of quarantine, although still weakly positive. However, the Italian Government's proposal to introduce such limitations (and that the Assembly is preparing to vote), while raising those who are vaccinated or cured of their respect, not only constitutes a suitable measure to cause danger to public health, but also runs counter to Council of Europe Resolution 2383/202021 (paragraphs 3 and 8), which lays down as illegitimate discrimination based on a pass granted to those who are potentially infectious. In particular, paragraph 8 provides that until there is clear and well-established scientific evidence, it may be discriminatory to withdraw the restrictions for those who have been vaccinated and to maintain them for those who have not done so. In this respect, it would be useful to recall the insurmountable constraints and "red lines" imposed by the Council of Europe (Annex 2) and which, on the other hand, continue to pretend that they do not exist. As a result of this evidence, as long as the Government intends to extend the obligation to show the Covid certificate it will necessarily have to require, in any case, a negative buffer as soon as possible, acquired by now that the certificate obtained after vaccination is not a safe method to prevent the spread of the virus. Moreover, this case was recently brought on the basis of an action brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union by lawyer Mauro Sandri of the Milan Court, assisted, as far as is strictly Union law, by the solicitor Giulio Marini, a lawyer authorised in the United Kingdom, and under the patronage of the International Criminal Court of the Hague. This action is aimed at requesting the annulment of EU Regulation 953/202021 on the grounds of the incorrect scientific assumptions underlying the adoption of the Covid-EU certificate. In adopting this regulation, in fact, temporarily prior to Resolution 2383/2021, the European legislator had perhaps taken for granted that the vaccine would create immunisation, but the evidence of the facts showed a completely different reality; that is why - this - it required lawyers to bring the highest judicial authority for a correct classification of the case. Moreover, the Government is fully aware of this appeal: it is recent news that the Council of the European Union, which is a party to the proceedings, has sent an official note to the ambassadors in the court, informing them of the presentation of the appeal. In spite of this, the House is now faced with a measure which is likely to have serious scientific deficiencies. These profiles require not to vote on the provisions of the decree-law, incompatible with Resolution 2383 of 2021 and this not only for the respect of Italy's international commitments, but also and above all for the protection of public health, seriously compromised by the vote in favour of this decree-law, whose provisions implicitly exclude the vaccinated or cured in possession of the pass from subjecting themselves to swabs, even rapid or salivary, allowing them dangerous freedoms that instead should not be granted because of their potential contagiousness. For these reasons it is requested not to proceed to the examination of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 105 of 2021 on the emergency from Covid-19 and for the exercise in safety of social and economic activities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u45	Since no one is asking to speak, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us should really push the Senate and the whole of Parliament to take responsibility. We in the Democratic Party have been thinking a lot over the past few months about school, which for us is the most important issue, the priority of the country. We also called for important investments in the recovery plan, both in structures (in buildings), and especially in the teaching model, with investments in human resources, teachers and teachers. The school has now started throughout Italy; it started in presence and this was a fundamental goal. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen: the school started in the presence only because a measure such as the one we are voting on today in this House is active. It would have been unthinkable for children to return to the classes if the country system had failed - mainly - to build a system of protection, which, among other things, in the school worked, with an adherence to the vaccination of teachers that in scientific terms reaches the totality: there are percentages that are very close to that figure. This does not mean that this should eliminate caution; I am referring to some objectively inappropriate discussions, in my opinion, on the use of the mask. I believe that with the boys and the girls we should talk more. As happens also for the use of the car, for the belts, for the crossing of the road, for the respect of the speed limits, many times our children and our girls are better at teaching us what it means to respect the rules. And not for abstract, theoretical membership, but because there is understanding. This is exactly what the school is for and that is why we have always insisted on the school in presence. The school is a gym of community, of democracy, is the place where you learn to be together with others in their difference. The green pass is such a tool. We are extremely respectful, I would like to reiterate that. The Democratic Party is extremely respectful of those who have fears. People who are afraid should not be abused, should not be bullied, should not be insulted. People who are afraid must be reassured. Often fears arise precisely from the lack of cultural tools and that is why we want to invest more in the school. The lack of understanding of science, the lack of epistemology, we unfortunately hear it too often in this House, in television debates and in political debates. And we do not know, colleagues, whether it is a sincere epistemological deficiency - and it would be serious - or whether it is an understanding of the data that is raped in an instrumental way, but playing on the skin of people. Let us also look at the issue of the pronunciation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I am fortunate to be one of the representatives of this Parliament in that House. I voted for that resolution, which I feel is used and pulled from one side and from the other, unfortunately also from my colleagues in the majority and, sometimes, even from some friends, who try to use my vote to publicly tell that the Democratic Party would have doubts that it does not have. In fact, that resolution, which has been voted virtually unanimously by the whole Chamber of the Council of Europe, except by some extreme right-wing nationalist forces (which should be a little more oriental) is a resolution that calls for attention and prudence. In fact, we are all aware that the vaccination course can be used, especially in certain countries where democratic dynamics are not exactly consolidated, as a pretext to increase some instruments of exclusion and pressure on minority groups. We must understand the context in which a resolution is written and we must not exploit the facts. We believe this: that today the school can be developed in presence. We were also discussing this with my Parent Company, who is a sincere school enthusiast. Here too, we want to say that we do not think that the experience of distance learning is completely to be thrown away. On the contrary, it has shown a great reactive capacity of the school and has given us some tools of didactic innovation that we want to continue to use. However, while we were trying to solve the problem of not losing the teaching, while being forbidden and impossible to meet people, we always thought that the presence was a fundamental element. This applies to school and applies to the whole of society. Today having a green pass, that is to have a green light (the choice of words has a meaning), which attests that you can go, simply means this. Here too, I listen many times to colleagues. You see, with a little scientific culture, you know that uncertainty is part of life. Every day we get on public transport. I came to the Senate today by bicycle. In my case, I traveled about 20 kilometers an hour, which I don't think I've passed; sometimes, by car we reach the 160 kilometers an hour. We're on a thin layer of rubber with air in it. If it explodes suddenly, at least we get very hurt. This, however, does not prevent us from using the car or the bicycle every day and from going, perhaps exaggerating, even at 160 kilometers per hour (this, perhaps, is inappropriate). It is therefore a question of bringing all this back into the right context. It is clear that you can get infected even after receiving two doses of vaccine. I know a lot of people that happened. These people, however, had one day of fever and were poorly infectious to others. That is the fact. We have not told and will never tell that there is the shield of Captain America with which the vaccine no longer touches anyone. That's not the case, but there's a big difference with the condition we were in at the beginning of this pandemic when we didn't have any tools to fight this virus. Even with regard to people, at the beginning we were told that the risk of contagion concerned only those with previous pathologies and the elderly. Then we noticed that it also concerned very young boys and girls, even healthy people, who ended up in intensive care, who stayed for days in a room with a ventilator or oxygen helmet. Here, too, I can think of faces and names of friends, who still drag themselves behind the consequences of having gone through that affair. Today we are in a completely different context. Politics, with its language, with public debate also has a role of orientation, as an example for the country, must give an indication to people. I believe that extending the use of the green pass to several other categories is a positive fact that will also affect the education system and the school, because it is clear that the school is not an isolated world: the children go to school in the morning and return home in the evening and during the day, if possible, perform other activities, which fortunately are reopened or are reopening, because they are fundamental and because in these months we have had great damage on the health of the children for the closure of sports facilities. In order to make sports facilities work, however, especially those in which it may be more difficult to manage a pandemic, the whole population must be vaccinated and there must be a control mechanism. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking these days and it strikes me that we all take for granted the fact - extraordinarily positive - that even the IT mechanism of the green pass works so well. Frankly, in Italy a few years ago I would not have taken for granted the fact that we all go to vaccination, in 90 percent of the cases after a short time we receive a text, register, download a QR code on the mobile phone and wherever we go there is someone who through an application controls it and checks that we are vaccinated. This is normal, but it is also something that we would not have been able to achieve just a few years ago. Think about how it would have been more complicated. In conclusion, I believe - to get to the point - that we must assume the responsibility of sending positive messages from this House, not fueling uncertainties, reassuring people, knowing how to navigate in this difficult storm with the tools of culture and science. That's the only way we're all gonna get a little stronger. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u48	I will divide my speech into two parts: the first to explain to you the reasons for opposition to the extension of the state of emergency introduced by Articles 1 and 2 of this measure; the second to explain the reasons for my opposition to the green pass introduced in Article 3 of this measure. On the extension of the state of national emergency to 31 December of this year, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the fifth extension: five times the government has asked us to ratify the extension of the state of national emergency and I believe it is a unique in the history of the Republic. If the state of national emergency made sense and was justified - so much so that I voted in favour at the beginning of 2020, when the virus had just appeared - it was much less so in the next four extensions, in July and October 2020 and in January and April 2021, so much so that I voted against in dissent from my group at the time. Surely today the requirements for the state of emergency do not exist. Today, two years after the emergence of the virus, we know much better the dynamics of this syndemia, so much so that known vaccines have been made, the vaccination campaign in Italy is 70 percent and there are early cures to cure the disease from Covid in the beginning also at home and reduce the serious effects. In addition, the incidence of new cases is currently falling, approaching the threshold of 50 cases out of 100,000 inhabitants, which, as is known, is the threshold below which it is possible to track and identify individual cases on a case-by-case basis and quarantine them (remember the Immuni app? What happened to him?). Still, on the hospital front, intensive therapies to date, but even yesterday and the day before yesterday, were and are free at 93 percent. I repeat, the free seats are 93 percent - they are official data - as well as the places in the non-critical area. From this point of view too, therefore, there is no stress of hospitalization and there is no National Health Service in crisis at this time. As far as lethality is concerned, precisely because we begin to know the virus better, we see that it has fallen in all age groups and even has attested to levels less than 0.01 percent in the age group up to nineteen years and is still less than zero comma until fifty-nine years. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, where is the current emergency, which cannot be dealt with with with the ordinary instruments provided for in the order? Colleagues, if there is this emergency, explain to me, for example, why Parliament did not work in August and we found ourselves, instead, this morning, unable to discuss the amendments to this very important measure, because there is no time, it is urgent and it must be approved immediately. However, we could well have worked in August rather than going on vacation, and for this we must recognize a precise responsibility to the Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, who did not plan the work in such a way as to allow us to properly treat a measure of this delicacy. [[Applause]] We come to the second part of the intervention, on the green pass, because on the assumption of the alleged emergency you introduce very heavy and unjustified discrimination between citizens vaccinated and not vaccinated. They are discrimination and not simple differences in treatment, because they would be different treatments justifiable, consistent with a certain logic and tolerable, if - and only if - the vaccine prevented the transmission of the virus and therefore the vaccine did not transmit the virus, or at least, if it were quantified with reasonable certainty the ability of the vaccine to significantly reduce the risk of infection. The premise of the green pass is in fact to prevent potentially contagious people from infecting others, accessing public places, workplaces, restaurants, places of culture and so on. The famous subject of public interest is therefore raised. It is not said, in fact: "You must vaccinate yourself, to protect yourself," but it is said: If you are not vaccinated, you cannot access the place because you need to protect the others. If this is the case, however, it must be demonstrated, with reasonable certainty, at least the ability of the vaccine to stop this infection. To date, however, the only sure thing we know is that we cannot exclude that vaccinees can infect and have, in power, the ability to infect others, just like non-vacciners. You could reply, ladies and gentlemen, that there is the document of the Higher Institute of Health of 10 September, which attests to the opposite of what I am saying. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think this document is wrong. I am making a precise, precise and rather serious statement: I believe that this document, the only Italian document that tried to measure the ability of the vaccine not to reduce the serious consequences of the disease, but to stop the infection, is wrong. I presented these thesis at the Commission meeting, asking the Government, in particular the Secretary-General Sileri who represented him, and the members of the majority present to reply to these remarks, but no one was able to stutter anything. So not only, as senators, we could not go into more detail, we could not hold hearings, we could not ask the Higher Institute of Health to clarify the points that I will now list, but, not even at specific request, the Government, in the person of the qualified Undersecretary Sileri, felt that it had to make any clarification and any clarification or even to deny, because at the beginning I put this issue as a question and as a question. Today, however, I am obliged to make this accusation in this House, because I have not had any response. What are the obvious mistakes of this September 10th report? The first is that the calculation for the verification of the difference in the possibility of infection between vaccinated and non-vaccined was made without taking into account the number of swabs made between the two plates. The incidence was calculated by taking positives and comparing them to the total number of vaccinees and non-vacciners, without taking into account the fact that non-vacciners... [[Call the president back.]] Excuse me, Mr. President, you'll leave me an extra couple of minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u49	I left them to him, Senator Crucioli, he was seven and I gave him nine. She's at the end of her ninth minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u50	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). It is the only voice that will rise in dissent, one of the few, if you leave me two more minutes I will be grateful. The number of swabs has not been examined and this clearly leads to overestimating the effectiveness of the vaccine in the ability to stop transmission, because the greater number in the audience of non-vacciners results from the fact that these are necessarily more buffered, because the green pass expires every 48 hours and must make swabs. The second huge error is that the estimate made also examined the periods of April, May and June, when there was no delta variant. What are we interested in knowing about the ability to stop the infection of the previous variant, when today there is a different one, that the Higher Institute of Health has attested to being more able to puncture the vaccine? It was only July and August, which are the months when the delta variant became dominant. The third macroscopic error is that positive cases are counted within 14 days after the first dose, as if they were responsible for the audience of the non-Vaccinated, when the time needed to produce antibodies is uncertain and the incubation time is uncertain. These numbers should have been removed in order to get a clean data. The errors listed are likely to significantly overestimate the ability to prevent the transmission of infections and are evidence of a doubt that the processed product responds to the political purpose of proving the efficacy of the vaccine rather than impartially assessing that efficacy. Parliament was not allowed to carry out any scientific research (I said what happened in the Commission); if we add to this the opaque management of data by the Government, the Technical and Scientific Committee and the Higher Institute of Health, the hammering media propaganda, scientific dissemination... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u51	Senator, I have to interrupt you. I'm sorry. I really gave you a few more minutes. You may submit the text of your speech to the proceedings of the sitting. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to sum up my thoughts in three respects: the first is that science proposes and politics disposes. We are here as politicians, not as scientists, so we must assume the data from science, but the responsibility lies with the politician. [[Applause]] The second point: it is certainly better to educate than to oblige; at times, however, the times of education, the times of formation, the times of moral suasion can be so long that they constitute a danger to the situation that is being faced. In this case, it is absolutely permissible to oblige, however, by referring to the second paragraph of Article 32 of the Constitution. In the case of the obligation, however, it is important to bear in mind three points: that the obligation is proportionate to the danger that at that time is running; that it is contained in time and therefore has the duration of the urgency and emergency that is being faced, and that the obligation is evidence based, i.e. based on evidence of scientific evidence. All this does not in any way detract from the fact that this is a Parliament, not the world congress (which I hope will be) which will deal with vaccines and in which the most important scientific voices will be heard and interpretations will be discussed. All of us - and in this House there are many people who, before being a Member of Parliament, in their previous life had dealt with medicine, science and research - know how research is a living and dynamic reality, which can come into contradiction with itself, because it is precisely from this contradiction that the evolution of science springs. We know perfectly well how, at the scientific level, the positions can be very different: it is the scientific debate; it is the bread of our day. The passion for research, which somehow accompanies and precedes the passion for politics, cannot be superimposed or imposed on it. What I want to say is that there is a little - if you will allow me to say it in these terms - the neophyte of science, who looks at science as if it were some sort of modern religion. No, science is not axiomatic, it does not have absolute truths, but only truths in transit, waiting for someone to elaborate a scientific theory that can explain a greater number of facts with greater clarity, and therefore in this sense allowing a change. Science cannot be photographed as if it were a snapshot and then proposed in this way. Let's say that what scandalizes the common man - I also put myself for all the areas of which I am totally ignorant - and that are the contradictions of the richness linked to complexity are exactly what fascinates those who are inside, who are constantly looking for the possibility of taking a step forward. Replacing political responsibility with scientific responsibility is a structural error that we cannot commit. Here, in this House, we must demand the right and responsibility of the decision, which clearly mature in a precautionary context. Therefore, in the doubt, the choice will always be aimed at ensuring the most fragile and the weakest. While waiting for more articulated, more solid and more built-up knowledge, I have to worry about the majority of the population and then take a measure that meets their needs. In this case, caution pushes us all in favor of the vaccine and in favor of documented vaccination (because it is not the green pass, that demonstrate what we have done), with respect and attention of all the others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u53	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in agreement with my Parent Company today I will make a speech that will not be strictly inherent in the decree-law in question, but of course it is linked. I would like to refer to a question which I tabled more than a month ago (almost two, in fact) as the first signatory, along with other colleagues. The premise I want to make, to avoid any misunderstanding and any controversy (which in these days seems to me to be a little 'the sport preferred by everyone), is the following. I am a man vaccinated and with the complete vaccination cycle, so this question is functional, from my point of view, to try to help not disperse the great impulse that President Draghi and General Son gave to the vaccination campaign and the attempt to return to the normality of the country. The only thing I notice and that's a little strange is that the current government minister is the same as the previous government, so it has to be understood if he didn't deal with it before but he's dealing with it now, or if he didn't deal with it before and he doesn't even deal with it now. Anyway, maybe if you don't do anything, I think it's fine from this point of view. What did I ask the Minister? One thing I think is very simple. Since today we run a bit 'the vaccination campaign also through surreptitious obligations that are triggering not a few polemics and, from this point of view, I also invite to lower the tones a bit, I think it is useful to increase transparency on the indication of the data provided daily by the Ministry and taken up by the media. To me it is spontaneous, as a man vaccinated, to think that the vaccination course is really a protection as it is reported on the site of the Higher Institute of Health. At the time when the data of the infected, the hospitalized, the intensive therapies and the deceased are provided, I would like to make clear the percentage of vaccinees that have been infected, hospitalized, that are in intensive care and of vaccinees that unfortunately have died. [[Applause]] I say this with the most positive spirit possible, aimed at increasing a vaccination course that I, being vaccinated, share. This is also true of the over 50 which are among the millions not vaccinated. By avoiding the path of the restriction of certain freedoms because, beyond the fact that I can agree more or less on the issue of the green pass, it is clear that this is a restriction of freedom, perhaps through this information would give a boost. So two o'clock, does it work or doesn't it work? I think so. The president of the Liguria Region Toti today said that 99 percent of those hospitalized in intensive care in the Region are not vaccinated. So let's give this information; maybe, to bits and bites, they have already been given, but let's make it a practice. You will tell me that you should probably complete them, clarifying the doses received, the type of vaccine, age or pathologies. However, I would already be happy to know the percentage of vaccinees that are hospitalized, because it would also give me some certainty about the future. If we go to the third dose somehow in my opinion the population and citizens have the right to know. I strongly believe that the combo between transparency of data communication, implementation of home care and perhaps also implementation and lowering of the costs of all those tools to understand whether or not you are infected is the real solution to prevent there being riots in the streets and that the social clash becomes greater than the current. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u55	Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the bill No 2382, which amends Decree-Law No 105, goes in the right direction of a gradual and progressive, albeit increasingly accelerated, development of everything that revolves around the social and relational life of the community. Just as it is not necessary to make pindaric flights with abrupt accelerations that would entail real risks of recovery of contagions, in the same way one cannot fail to look with confidence to the future and realistically resume those modes of interpersonal relationships, those convivial habits and healthy fun, those moments of aggregation, sociality, recreation, cultural enrichment or simply care of one's body through sports activities in gyms or swimming pools. All this represents not only a completion, I would say necessary, of our lives, but it also constitutes an important part of the economic fabric of our country. It is right and sacred that this should happen. All of us have longed for this during the most difficult and sad periods of the pandemic, during the lockdowns and the more or less total closures indispensable for collective security. For these reopenings and for a disciplined, orderly and respectful access to the health of others, to all different recreational and cultural activities, to sporting, theatrical events, exhibitions, museums, but also simply to restaurants and bars, it is in my opinion indispensable always to respect the individual and collective security measures. This access to specific services and activities is only permitted with the green pass. It wants to be, in fact, a measure of safety for all those who share a particular place or manifestation and who, in compliance with the regulations, suggestions and indications given, want to recover - of course in safety - their sociality. Your beliefs, personal choices made in a manner different from the common opinions shared among other citizens cannot and must not cause consequences for others or endanger an inviolable right of the person enshrined in our Constitution: the right to health. Freedom and collective security always come before individual freedom and security. [[Applause]] It is necessary to condemn and stigmatize with firmness and determination the acts of verbal violence, or worse still physical, inopportunely motivated and justified as an extreme means of protest; in reality, they represent real intimidating and prevarication actions carried out by the so-called no vax or no green pass. They are not admissible, they must be firmly rejected, in ways, in times and in content. The destruction in Milan of a 5 Star MoVimento gazebo - but it could belong to any other political force - as well as the threats addressed to Minister Di Maio, but also to journalists or doctors such as Infectivologist Bassetti, are profoundly anti-democratic gestures and confirm an almost obscurantist drift, a degree of mental exaltation and defiance of some characters. The pandemic, with its over 130,000 innocent victims only in Italy, should have taught something. Being able to express one's dissent is one of the fundamental principles of democracy; attacking or doing violence is not. At this moment you have to lower your tones, reduce your fears. We need a correct and widespread campaign of information and awareness to stimulate people to vaccinate, overcoming backwardness and doubts, especially by highlighting the flashing results and statistical data of the pre- and post-start pandemic of the vaccination campaign, in terms of infection, occupation of beds, hospitalization in intensive therapies and deaths. The Movimento 5 Stars, as our President Conte also said, believes that in the current epidemiological situation - I want to point out - there are no conditions to place the vaccination obligation, except for certain categories. The obligation is the extreme ratio to be applied in the event of special contingent situations - let us hope of course not - of an important rise in the curve of contagions. Particularly significant in this decree-law no. 105 - I open a parenthesis, President - is, in my opinion, Article 4-bis, the norm that restores the possibility of access, throughout the national territory, for family members and visitors with the green certification Covid-19, to the RSA, health care residences, to the structures of long-term care and rehabilitation, to the residential structures for the elderly. The health services must, of course, ensure that family members visit and provide day-to-day care in the event that the hosted person is not self-sufficient. It seems to me a measure that goes in the right direction of psychological and emotional support, and we all know the fundamental value of this for the elderly. All this necessarily respecting the safety of the patients, who unfortunately have already made an unmistakably sad contribution in terms of suffering and human lives. In my opinion, a strong focus must be on respect for the green pass in all the situations envisaged; it is a preventive measure necessary to preserve the health of all. It's obviously not the panacea and it couldn't be. In this regard, and I conclude, Mr President, as a doctor, I would also like to make a comment on what I have also heard in this House and said by some that the vaccinated person can also be a carrier of the virus and, despite this, he is not obliged to take the buffer to be able to take advantage of the green pass. Well, it is scientifically proven - and this is linked to all immunological studies - that the percentage of these subjects is extremely low and represents more the exception than the rule. Immunological mechanisms are such that they severely limit this possibility compared to non-Vaccinated individuals, who continue to eliminate the virus for many days after infection. There is no need for slogans or positions taken for mere political propaganda or to broaden consensus. We must stick to scientific data and respect politically shared decisions. This is the main way out of this global crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u57	Mr President, illustrious members of the government, my fellow senators, the only criticism I feel about the green pass is the name: it could be described differently, without once again resorting to unnecessary anglicism. Having said that, it is an instrument of freedom that allows us to take back our lives in the places that compete with us: schools, universities, restaurants, hotels. It is not by chance a tool appreciated by all employers' organizations, because it allows those who work to resume working. This is; the rest is chatter. I see that those who oppose call for the British model. Yes, it is true, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson avoided introducing this measure, which he also considered necessary, but Italy is not the United Kingdom. For cultural reasons in the Anglo-Saxon world the private person has a higher value than he has in our world, so much so that even the idea of turning with a document of identity in his pocket is inconceivable for an Englishman, while for us it is the norm of law. Then trivially count the numbers. In the United Kingdom, 82% of the population over 16 years of age has been vaccinated; 90% have already received the first dose - we are 67 percent - and that is why in the United Kingdom they can avoid applying the green pass rule. This, however, does not convince critics or skeptics. I am pleased to note that in a country in which liberal culture has always been dramatically minority they have all awakened liberals: former communists, fascists, populists, all invoke the liberal verb [[Applause]] , in contrast to the rules in force for the green pass and, even, the use of vaccines. I fear that this is not a sincere conversion and perhaps we should agree on what liberalism means. I am referring to the interpretation given by a legal science giant like Nicola Matteucci, whose name I am pleased to hear for a moment in this House. Matteucci always remembered that liberal culture has nothing to do with dogmas, much less with ideologies; it is a method, said Matteucci, a method that adapts to a reality that is in continuous and systematic evolution, but that has fixed points, such as the freedom of the person, for example, and there is no more delicate and essential freedom of freedom from disease and death and the green pass with all evidence is a tool that reduces the risk of Covid becoming ill and, consequently, the risk of dying from it. This is, and realism is perhaps the most characteristic element of liberal thinking, that realism that induces all politicians, of all parties that perform functions of local or regional government, to accept the green pass and to consider it essential. There's no alternative. The rest is demagogy, banal and vulgar demagogy. Mr President, I would like to address you and, through you, to the College of Quaestors for an observation, always in the key of realism, that I believe should be the only figure that should guide our choices. I, even against my personal convenience, have always defended the function of Parliament, the prerogatives of Members. I realise that such a matter affects constitutionally guaranteed rights and powers, but I believe it is appropriate, in a certain sense necessary and even useful to convince those who resist the idea of the green pass, that the restrictions and rules linked to the obligation of the green pass that we are going to impose on the world of private and public work should also be applied in this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u58	Senator Pisani Giuseppe is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u59	Mr President, I have asked to speak in this debate to make some personal comments on the decree-law in question and on the vaccination campaign. I believe that government action should be based on a pact of mutual trust between the state and the citizen, especially in the area of health. The State on the one hand, through public health, must offer free treatment and prevention of diseases, but together with correct information on the benefits and risks of medical practices. It is up to citizens to accept the offer, remembering, all citizens, that, as mentioned in Article 32 of our Constitution, health is protected by the Republic as a fundamental right of citizens, in the interests of the community. This is a very important step, because it means that health should also be protected taking into account the good and the interest of the community. Therefore, no citizen should escape the task of guaranteeing this interest of the community, because, if we all have the right to free care, we should all also feel the duty to guarantee the interest and the good of the community. [[Applause]] I believe that the green pass is by no means a surreptitious obligation, absolutely; indeed it is a measure of freedom, as has already been said in this House several times, because it has facilitated the expression of individual freedom and the resumption of many social and work activities, which can be exercised with a greater degree of health protection (not in absolute safety, but certainly with a greater degree of protection). In fact, a greater possibility of movement is allowed than an absolute and indiscriminate ban, which would be unfair and inexcusable. It has also been said by some that the government prefers the extension of the green pass rather than imposing the vaccination obligation to escape the responsibilities arising from any damage caused by the vaccine; this is wrong, it is incorrect, it is not true. There is a copious constitutional jurisprudence that recognizes the obligation of compensation to the State in case of damage to the psychophysical integrity resulting from vaccination, not only mandatory, but also recommended. However, I share a concern expressed by the National Committee on Bioethics when it says that the Covid-19 pass must be maintained in force for the time strictly necessary, in a proportionate and temporary manner, by introducing the guarantees necessary to prevent abuse of it, and that it must not be the premise for wider and definitive automatic measures or for other forms of tracking, profiling or surveillance. Any measure restricting and conditioning individual freedoms, based on health conditions, which extends beyond the specified term, must be considered ethically and legally unacceptable. In the last thirty days, according to the report of the Higher Institute of Health, the rate of hospitalizations in intensive care between the over 80 with the completed vaccination cycle was 13 times lower than those not vaccinated. In some regions, between them Sicily (from which I come), more than 80 percent of the admissions in the intensive care departments Covid consists of non-vaccine subjects. These data are proven and demonstrate in turn that the objective of a strong reduction in the risk of death and major disease from SARS-CoV-2 in people vaccinated compared to those not vaccinated has been achieved. Therefore, in my opinion and in our opinion, it is necessary - as Mr Mautone and others have already said - to continue with a constant and effective information campaign, in order to dispel doubts and fears about vaccines, to explain and persuade people, avoiding, as far as possible, obliging them. The communication of data and results and their monitoring must - I agree with those who have already expressed this concept - be transparent, correct, clear and understandable. This is especially in view of the redundancy of information coming from several parts, unfortunately sometimes also from some of us, from some political character who seems to move more on the basis of a mere electoral calculation, than for public health purposes. This is even less acceptable especially at a time of history such as today and especially when it comes to scientific topics and topics for which only facts and evidence and chatter are at zero. As Mr Mautone has already said, with regard to the hypothesis of a collective vaccination obligation, in agreement with what our President Conte said, we believe that it is to be considered as the last resource and extreme ratio in case the threshold of community immunity is not reached, endangering the good of the community. As a doctor who believes in science, prevention, vaccine effectiveness and evidence-based medicine (the same medicine that has already allowed to defeat diseases such as polio and smallpox), I think that the speed with which the vaccine was prepared for Covid-19 was a huge scientific advance that certainly posed several questions. However, it is to be recognized that there was no equally effective alternative option to contain the serious consequences of the spread of a virus that had already proved fatal to the human species. I conclude by saying that in this context the vaccine is necessary and, as the Holy Father said, it is also an act of love because - let us never forget - love is also social and political. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u60	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u61	Mr President, today we are dealing with a subject which has been on the table for weeks, if not months (perhaps, at this point, for more than a year), which is based on the question of coronavirus. Since - I am referring to the famous 31 January and, then, to the maximum explosion on 7 March last year, with the adoption of legislative measures to ban personal freedom and more - we have begun to talk about this problem, to live it daily and to mourn our deaths, everything has been focused on the vaccine. All of us, regardless, were looking for immediate, rapid, just and competent vaccination. The pharmaceutical companies (who obviously do it as a trade, but some have also renounced the proceeds of marketing and have satisfied themselves with the industrial costs) looked at the realization of the vaccine to offer the community an opportunity. The vaccination campaign then started. Among other things, we criticized the management of the previous Commissioner. The Dragon Government was important and Forza Italia presented the new vaccination plan. Son, appointed new commissioner, did a good job and Civil Protection revised its organization. It is clear that once we have vaccinated ourselves, it needs to be known and highlighted. How do you know that? Today the technology offers us many opportunities, with smartphones and a whole series of systems that allow us in everyday life to demonstrate easily and immediately that we are vaccinated. Do we have to divide politically on this? I absolutely do not think for two reasons: firstly, for public health and for the defence of human life and, secondly, for the economic defence of the country. I'm really grounded. I am never in favour of mandatory things, because they are for choice. I'll give you an example, even if it doesn't adhere very much. I have been mayor for many years and, although I am not in favour of paying parking, I believe that for those who want to park near the shops must be paid in order to allow for the replacement of cars. But at the gates of the city I had made free parking: you could safely park outside and then take a walk to get to the center. What does that mean? That if you want a service you just have to do something to get it, then pay for the parking. The vaccine must not be compulsory, but it must be compulsory - and we agree with the norm and hope it will be extended - to access certain spaces or certain premises, to protect those who go there and those who work there and to maintain the economic viability of that company. If I go to a restaurant - forgive me, sitting or standing does not change anything - I must have the green pass: if you go to the bar, idem. We will put a device at the entrance, of course with the tax credit, because we cannot kill companies and make them pay for the entire system of security devices; something is planned today, but I think it must be encouraged. We must extend this mechanism as far as possible. I do tourism, as everyone knows. The conviction of citizens to visit our country and our businesses today is increasingly linked to the issue of health security. Already before, people were informed about where the hospital was, if close to the accommodation facility; today this happens even more with regard to the issue of the vaccine and the green pass. We must have Covid free companies for the economic development of this country. To oppose this means not having at heart the future of our children, the future health care, the future of personal health, public health and economic health of this country. We must ask the Presidency of the Council to extend the green pass as far as possible to the whole system of work, in the general interest of the development of this nation. I do not go into the matter of yellow areas and red areas. It seems to me that the parameters are sufficiently correct. Forza Italia believes and I personally believe, rightly, for a matter of common sense, that the green pass is a matter of civilization, which serves to look to the future with responsibility, competence and perspective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u62	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u63	Mr President, the decree-law that we are converting today and that of 6 August represent a very serious act. These are acts that fundamentally compress the constitutional rights of Italian citizens: Articles 2, 27 and 32, Articles 3, 34, 36 and 41 and so on. Not to mention those of the Charter of Nice, which is the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. There are about twenty articles that have been completely deleted from this provision. This compression is unfounded because we know that the green pass provides for the issue of a certification to the vaccinated and to those who every forty-eight hours submit to a buffer. Well, it is well known, it is now proven, that the vaccinated transmit the contagion and are in turn infected, while the tracking of the contagions is done only on the non-vaccined. Practically, the contagions will continue to circulate cheerfully. The twelve-month green pass for the vaccinated, provided for under Decree-Law No 105 of 2021 today at our examination, does not even coincide with the immunological coverage that is declared in the liars of these vaccines, approved by the AIFA, which provide for a maximum coverage of nine months; without taking into account that, from individual to individual, immunological coverage varies. So people with legal immunity license walk around quietly infecting with state coverage and green certificate. The antibody index, on the other hand, which is what makes the difference between those who are covered on the immune level and those who are not, is not a valid title for the release of the green pass. This is very serious because, however, those who have a high antibody titre are still forced to make at least one dose of vaccine to obtain the release of this green card, putting their health at risk. Then, of course, those who are economically disadvantaged cannot choose whether to make the vaccine or whether to proceed through the use of swabs, which are also invasive. You didn't even want to approve the use of quick salivary swabs, but only that of molecular salivary swabs, which provide, in order to be processed, a time of twenty-four hours: therefore, they are practically unusable to access workplaces or those of interest such as gymnasiums. This measure, therefore, does not serve to protect public health, for nothing at all. It limits mobility by restricting the constitutional rights of citizens, but not on the most crowded means of transport, where contagions circulate better, such as on local public transport. It limits the possibility of access to public outdoor places, such as archaeological parks, or outdoor shows; in outdoor restaurants, however, you can go. Therefore, this measure does not follow a criterion of proportionality and adequacy to which all regulatory measures that apply, especially in this case, for the protection of public health should be inspired. Citizens are discriminated against not in order to protect their health, but to force them to carry out a treatment that is not sufficiently supported by clinical data that prove their safety. In fact, the data at our disposal is far from available. In Europe there were as many as 2,189.537 adverse reactions to the vaccine, of which half were very serious, while 23,252 were the deaths recorded on 28 August by the agency EudraVigilance, which is a recognised agency and these are official data. Therefore, the data that are reported to us by the Italian agencies are absolutely partial, put together through suggestive statistics, such as that relating to the circulation of contagions, where the tracing is done, clearly, only on those who carry out the buffer and, therefore, is not vaccinated. Therefore, the perception of the circulation of contacts on vaccinees and non-vaccines is easily misled. In the meantime, however, it is the same vaccine manufacturers who tell us how effective they have been put on the market. Vaccines carried out tests before they were placed on the market because they were not authorised but were put into circulation. Double-blind evidence was conducted before they were put into circulation. Pfizer says that the vaccine prevents eight cases of severe Covid-19 out of 21,720 immunized, but with 90 adverse effects. As for Janssen, there are only six cases of prevention from Covid-19 out of 19.630 immunized, with 264 adverse effects. Modern reports that there are only 30 cases in 15,210 immunized with 3042 adverse effects. So, in reality, the vaccine manufacturers themselves bear witness to anything else than what this Government is promoting to sponsor drugs at all costs, on which, on the other hand, a necessary caution should be taken. When we see advertisements for pharmaceutical products, in fact, there is always a final part of the commercial that talks about side effects, adverse events, medical monitoring and taking that medicine under medical supervision. On the other hand, there is never a word about these products, neither about adverse events, nor about any official report, nor about any public information agency, nor does it mention it in institutional communication. It is a one-way advertising that is genuinely unprecedented in health prevention and health and public protection. Everything that's happening is not in the public interest. I think it is very serious and this majority will have to answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u64	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u65	Mr President, I find it difficult to speak as a doctor after such a precise speech by a teacher. I would just like to remind you that in medical terms it means a serious effect that prevents you from performing your daily activity, so a serious effect is also a feverish rise of twenty-four hours. It is evident that the battle against the Covid-19 is not over. The arrival of vaccines at the end of 2020 had made us hope for a quick solution, but despite a growing number of immunized vaccines, global infections do not stop. 4.4 million new weekly reports have been recorded, bringing cases to 206 million since the beginning of the pandemic. This does not mean that vaccines have not slowed down the phenomenon and saved an infinite number of lives. I realize, as a doctor before I as a Member of Parliament, that the words of science can be incomprehensible to most people, and we have just had a demonstration of this, and they are often misused and misused. We have seen, in recent months, how easy it is to create confusion. The miraculous solution, the idea of Covid zero, to eliminate the rules and return to a normal life immediately is very tempting, even if we know that it is not feasible. We know that since last year things have changed, we have the delta variant, that it has a great transmissibility and makes it more difficult to mitigate the risk also using other weapons available, from the green pass, to the mask, to the hygiene, to the distancement and certainly, responsible for the variants was not vaccination, because the variants arrived before the people were vaccinated. Surely the most effective tool is vaccination, because it substantially reduces hospitalization and deaths from Covid and we see it from the numbers: 96 percent, intensive therapies are currently occupied by people not vaccinated, the same goes for Covid departments. The zero risk does not exist, but we see how even if you get infected by the virus, if you are vaccinated, the disease has a much simpler course. Governments have made choices after reducing the lethality of Covid by means of scientific research and vaccines and learning to better manage this type of patient at a hospital level. They have chosen to open to almost everyday normality also with tools such as the green pass to safeguard the health, social and economic hold of the countries, accepting the fact that the virus will continue to cause other deaths for a certain period, but without more dramatic numbers of 2020 and without putting into difficulty the national health services, which already have many difficulties for all non-Covid patients, for example cancers, for which the fact that they could not receive the necessary treatments and screenings previously in this year has produced effects that we will see in the coming years, with other deaths. The zero risk does not exist, the enemy - let us remember once again - is the virus. We must accept a certain amount of risk and there is no vaccine in the world for any kind of disease that guarantees 100% coverage, as we know, not even the influenza vaccine. [[Applause]] It's based on the risk percentage. In 2017, when the Lorenzin decree was under discussion, I heard everything in this House and both my daughter and I received a lot of death threats for defending compulsory vaccination, but what is always considered is the least risk: if one measles encephalitis happens to one child every 100,000, one post-vaccine encephalitis happens, unfortunately, to one child every million, so the numbers should speak for themselves. We know that the only realistic way to overcome this tragic historical period is the green pass. We know what needs to be done to get it: have vaccination or negative molecular or antigenic tests. Unfortunately, we have not had time to examine the decree-law in depth, given the deadline, but I must say that I agree with the changes proposed by the House of Deputies, inspired by common sense, such as the extension of the green pass from nine to twelve months for those vaccinated with two doses and for the cured. It was then simplified - and very important - the access of family members with green passes to health facilities, in order to avoid further conditions of isolation for the sick. There is still something missing: for example, there are rules relating to green passes in means of transport, in aircraft, and whatever else, but there are no rules for local public transport. The Forza Italia Group therefore confirms its coherence in protecting the majority of citizens, ensuring safety in the workplace, school, transport and local public transport. Let's look at the opening of schools: will it be a coincidence that, since yesterday, in Bolzano there are three whole classes in quarantine, since the province of Bolzano is a land no vax, where the vaccination rate is very low? I think it may not be a coincidence, and that should be assessed, even from the point of view of those who claim that the vaccine is not needed. In conclusion, I would like to mention the sentence of the TAR of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, according to which it is legitimate to suspend the health care workers no vax, for the pre-eminent right to health, in its collective dimension, compared to the freedom of self-determination of the individual. It is true that a wrong communication has been made, but I believe that there are pockets of the population that, even if there had been a right communication, would not be convinced - and we have heard it - since there is still someone who claims that the vaccine creates, practically, a microchip of mRNA in the body, which makes us more easily controllable. It is clear that in the face of these arguments, as on chemical trails, not only science, but any person of common sense, cannot reiterate anything. I therefore believe that the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration is to be voted with conviction and I hope that the Government will take even more drastic decisions, pending the numbers of the next few weeks, in order to widen as much as possible the need for the green pass. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u66	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u67	Mr President, we are discussing the conversion into law of a very important measure, which is proving to be quite divisive, even if it is based on valuable intentions. Allow me to make a thought, perhaps a little provocative, to induce us to reflect on the legislative dynamic that awaits us. Are we sure that the green pass, as it was designed, is the solution? It is true that the continuous and non-univocal news about this means that much of the effectiveness assumed is lacking. From this point of view, I think it is extremely important to take into account the impact, the lack of communication and the underlying objectives that have not been declared. That is why I would like to insist on the concept that the green pass, as it was designed, could be perceived by a minority but not negligible part of the population, as a coercive instrument, which could further undermine the credibility of the system. Proof of this are the manifestations of last week, fed by a surreptitious preceptivity of vaccination, in fact sine die, with a green pass that, inevitably, will have to be prolonged and renewed, with social and economic costs unsustainable over time, since the only strategy that can be traveled today is the mitigation of risk. It is therefore on this axiom that the pact of trust between the State and the citizen should be based, with a green pass discipline based on the principle of self-certification, that does not hide the need to vaccinate and that strengthens the relationship between civil society, health institutions and science, by virtue of rules not only perceived as just, but simple and applied according to ethical solidarity and responsibility, excluding the obligation of control over the exhibitors. [[Applause]] In the same way, new generation monoclonal antibodies must be used correctly, reaching all eligible cases and supporting the search for low-cost and easy-to-administer antivirals, dedicating resources from the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) to the most promising ongoing studies. [[Applause),]] to guarantee timely, widespread and appropriate home and territorial care, on which delays are piling up, lacking national protocols worthy of note. [[Applause]] An integrated system of prevention and care is needed to properly combine the two fundamental objectives of the National Health Service with a universalistic vocation, in terms of effective protection of individuals, families and businesses and not to bring potential damage to future generations. [[Applause]] , in the nevertheless valuable aim of safeguarding the protection of the elderly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u68	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u69	Mr President, I believe that we are leaving this pandemic following a principle of reality (some people were talking about realism). The most powerful weapon we have are vaccines, soon we will have large-scale machine guns, monoclonal antibodies, thanks also to the Italian research that is being carried out in Siena. The green pass is our document to return to the community: how many of us have felt the thrill of returning to visit a museum, to listen to live music, to attend a football match? Showing the green pass is an act of love for one another. The green pass should be seen as a gentle push to vaccination. We remember that the vast majority of Italians and Italians have already received the second dose (40 million Italians), leading this ranking young people from twenty to twenty nine years old. We often talk about young people, but not many talk to young people. We think that girls and boys have no voice, instead with their choices, sometimes serious, practical, silent, determine the course of things. It remains a slice of people to be reassured and accompanied. We have also discussed it in the Commission, which I am honored to chair. Not vaccination is dangerous because you end up in intensive care more easily; but unfortunately the heart attacks, strokes and road accidents are still there, so people need intensive care and we can no longer afford this to be occupied by people who are not vaccinated. Today we are converting Decree-Law No. 105 of July 23 and we know that the Government has already issued a new Decree-Law, which is now being examined by the House, to extend the green pass to schools, universities, all places of education and the RSA. We must protect the future of our children, we can no longer have distance learning and we must make a barrier to our elders: there are too many deaths in the RSA and we cannot forget that. Speaking of RSA, the House has done a good job and I agree with colleagues who said so: on a proposal from my colleague Lisa Noja, after listening to associations, families and patients, a rule has been introduced according to which health management guarantees the possibility of visiting with green passes, on a daily basis, allowing daily assistance in case the hosted person is not self-sufficient. This is a great step forward. We must take care of the shortage of nursing staff in the RSA, perhaps by simply hiring foreign personnel, overcoming for the period of emergency the exclusivity of the public: we need staff. The care of people: this is what we have to do again, even in hospitals. In this decree-law the government has taken a step forward, widening the possibility that family members can accompany their relatives in the waiting rooms also of the departments and not only in the emergency room. We must guarantee the right to a daily visit, because we know that the cure is part of the exit from the disease. According to yesterday's latest data, we have had more than 130,000 deaths for Covid and we all still mourn the loneliness of people who are no longer with respect to illness and death. We can't do this anymore. We can no longer continue to perpetuate this profound human injustice. So, especially in non-Covid wards, we need to resume a path of care and relationship between the patient and the family member. We know that in the week the government will extend the green pass to the world of work, at least in places where all citizens and citizens must have the green pass: this is also a question of logic and reality. I trust in the responsibility of trade unions: the Italian trade union has often participated in the evolution of democracy in the history of Italy, and I think this is a time when it takes great responsibility. Colleagues and colleagues, after a year and a half of terrible pandemics, we finally have the chance to anticipate the virus with our weapons, vaccines, monoclonals, and our strategy, the green pass, to win and make harmless the Covid and, in perspective, finally strengthen the territorial medicine proving that we learned from the terrible lesson of Covid. Let us all unite: I feel like making this appeal inside the classrooms and outside, with republican spirit; we all support, majority and opposition, the credibility of Prime Minister Draghi, so that Italy can be the leader of a European structure of contrast to the pandemic and the upcoming epidemics that could occur. We insist with the world, as was done in part at the G20 of health care, which took place last week, for the vaccination of the poorest countries. We, in fact, have the opportunity to choose, while there are countries that cannot do it because they do not have vaccines, and this is a profound worldwide injustice. We therefore insist with the world on vaccination in the poorest countries and on continuous and worldwide monitoring of the pandemic, exalting all that science has done at this time. Therefore: weapons, strategy, Europe, world, science; I believe that at this stage of our history we can do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u71	Mr President, following the reasoning we have consistently done as the Brothers of Italy, I believe that citizens should be informed with honesty and clarity, saying everything they need. This is the principle of informed consent. All of us when we take a drug, we have the possibility, not the obligation, to read the package leaflet, called a liar - there will be a reason - which also illustrates the rare effects that there may be of adverse reactions to that drug. When we do surgery, even dental treatment, we need to sign an informed consent in which it is explained in detail (to a greater or lesser extent depending on the importance of the surgery) what we are going to face and all related risks. When we talk about Covid vaccine, all these principles disappear. The citizens who get vaccinated because they are convinced of it are certainly many, most; I, for example, have vaccinated myself because I thought I did the right thing to protect myself better and I didn't think that the thing is altruistic because vaccines protect the person who vaccinates, they don't protect those around for the reasons I said and that I will also say later. That said, we do it out of conviction and also out of obligation. There are hundreds of thousands of people who, according to current laws, without the vaccine actually lose their jobs. It is true that there is the possibility of making swabs, but who works eight or often more hours a day, how does he take a swab every two days? Not to mention the cost. Well, all these people, even those who do it out of obligation, are subjected and have to sign a sheet where it says that they have been fully informed of the benefits and risks associated with the vaccine. It doesn't say anything. It would be as if in the medicine, in the package leaflet there were only written that it does good, but sometimes it gives problems. A medicine with this wording could never be marketed. There are then a number of questions that we would like to ask and we have been asking for a long time that have never been answered. For example, why weren't autopsies done in the first phase of the pandemic? [[Applause]] The autopsies, despite what we are told, are done from the Middle Ages. The beauty is that then we talk about faith in science. In the Middle Ages autopsies were allowed, which in antiquity generally were not done and could not be done, because it was understood (even if they did not all understand it) that with this technique one could better understand the diseases. And to think that medicine at the time was hugely behind today. It's a very serious fact. Then it was seen that being able to finally do the autopsies, some very important things have been discovered on the mechanisms through which the virus acts in serious and lethal cases and so they could adjust the therapies. Why have therapies that have been blocked elsewhere and also in Italy proved effective? Why were 10,000 doses of monoclonal drugs that were given away recently rejected on 29 October 2020, and no one has yet explained why? A television show brought it to the fore: there is no explanation. By the way, there is also financial damage, because then, a few months later, 9,000 doses were taken by paying them. With all these barriers, there was generally limited to tachypyrin and vigilant expectation. A wait that in all other diseases is not recommended and calls for action in good time. In the law establishing our national health system we talk about preventive medicine; here we have to wait. We know very well that there is a series of therapies that work in particular if adopted promptly, and instead focused on waiting. These questions are closely linked to data that we can also ask as further questions: why does Italy have a lethality rate far higher than the average even worldwide, despite we have a health system much better and more organized than those of many other countries? By making comparisons, of the 12 countries with more cases of infection from Covid, Italy has the highest lethality, that is the highest death rate compared to the number of infected, and also as mortality on the total population we are, unfortunately, very high in the ranking. Maybe the two things are connected? Perhaps the lack of autopsies, the rejection of certain drugs, the focus on waiting, as vigilant, have led to this result? In science, talking about bad luck is a little out of place. If then Italy has had a higher rate of lethality than others, there will be a reason; it may be that Italy, perhaps the only country in the world, has banned autopsies and has limited a number of other diseases. Just to give an idea, if Italy had had the same mortality rate as Germany, we would have had 40,000 fewer deaths; if it had the same lethality rate as the United States, we would have 55,000 fewer deaths; if we had the same lethality rate as Switzerland, we would have had 70,000 fewer deaths. Who knows, maybe it was impossible to do better, but if some things had been done, it would have been better. There are still Italian citizens, particularly in the most at risk, over the 60s, who have not been vaccinated, obviously by choice, because it is now a bit difficult not to be informed. Well, they should be fully informed; it should be explained that those are the categories that most risk and do not focus on vaccination of children from 12 to 17 years old, which are the ones that least risk from the disease and most risk from the rare and significant side effects. Why this logic? It's hard to understand why. Another general question: why did the Government not reply regularly to questions concerning all Covid matters, even at the time when it went on with the DPCMs, i.e. measures that completely skip the passage in Parliament? This is a serious matter. The government should always answer questions, but in such a situation it would be particularly important. Why has nothing been done in schools with regard to ventilation and crowded classes, but money has been spent - and we still do not know how much, more than a year since the questions were put - for 6 million wheelchairs? If the money from wheelchairs had been spent on ventilation or putting CO2 readings to know how much and when to open the windows, it would probably have been more productive. Why does the green pass, the green pass, last six months for the infected and twelve for the vaccinated, when all the studies say that the immunization given by the contact with the disease is clearly much better and longer lasting than that of the vaccine? Why? Then there are contrasts and the list would be long, so I only mention one case. Why is there a need for a green pass on long-distance trains and not on those of local transport, which are by nature more crowded? In addition to trains, there are also buses, we don't talk about it. Why does it take the green pass to attend an outdoor concert, where chairs are necessarily fixed and at a nice distance from each other and instead it doesn't take for local public transport? If Italy's figures are worse than others, there will also be one reason and, I repeat, we can hardly talk about bad luck. Why did Italy have a very old anti-pandemic plan - fifteen years old, while it should be updated much more frequently - and no one was held responsible for this? How come, as part of the green pass, we have not thought about all the problems related to the fact that there are those who are vaccinated or have done the swab - we are talking especially about the vaccinated - and do not even have an appropriate phone, so they have enormous difficulties to have the certificate? Why has it not been thought of those who have been vaccinated abroad with vaccines such as Sputnik or others, who have also shown effectiveness comparable to those admitted to Italy, and cannot have a green passport, which is obviously a huge limitation for them, but also for others? Although they have been vaccinated against all logic and all medical criteria, they should be vaccinated again with other vaccines, something absolutely absurd and certainly dangerous for health. There are also problems with the issue of the certificate to the cured, to the infected, to those who have taken only one dose and then got sick and, therefore, because of the contact with the virus, have achieved a special immunity. Then there are problems for Italians abroad, who do not have a health card and, therefore, are excluded from certification. The government has made a number of commitments - we have appreciated this - by accepting the agendas that we have presented. Too bad that the same arguments had already been submitted to the House, where at least it was possible to introduce amendments, even if the relevant amendments were rejected. Agendas have been accepted, so we will see. Let's hope so, because this is a series of important things. We have asked, for example, and the Government has made a commitment - and that would be the sense of an agenda - that checks should not be done by local managers; that refunds should be made for those who have to manage premises where access is only made with the green pass and who, therefore, have had expenses; that salivary swabs are free; that swabs are free for immunodepressants and a number of other measures. I conclude by saying that we must give clear information, because, by the same principle of general informed consent, we cannot think that people trust, if they hide the true numbers. You have to give them. I signed the informed consent for an intervention in which we talked about the risk of lethality of 5%, but I did it because I knew it made sense and that it was right to do that intervention, because the benefits were much greater than the disadvantages. If they had said to me, "Stay calm, it's like drinking a glass of water," I wouldn't have trusted them to tell me it was useful. I think that Italians are quite responsible, as they have shown in these two difficult years, and that they should not be mocked. They must be fully informed. Only in this way will the legislator be able to act in the most appropriate way in relation to the needs of the country and citizens will make the best decisions for themselves, for their families and for the community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u72	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I would like to remind you that over the last year and a half we have tried to deal with the dramatic health and economic situation caused by this terrible pandemic, in the hope of being able to hold it and overcome it. The measure that we are about to convert into law today - I remind everyone that a Council of Ministers is under way which will see the extension of the instrument that we are going to discuss during this debate - has been the subject of a wide debate in the House, which in some respects has been very heated (you have heard it), with incongruent votes, and which, in my opinion, has overshadowed the interest in health, in order to return more properly to that of consensus: we have to tell you these things. This attitude is confusing for the citizens and certainly does not help to find a useful solution to get out of the pandemic, but it does find consensus, especially among the ranks not so much of those who are indecisive (these people must be helped, because behind the indecision sometimes there are doubts, that must be escaped through science), as of those who want to find a way out not to vaccinate in the name of a millanta freedom, that does not lead for sure to a freedom for the whole community, but only for one part (few fortunately), instead damaging that of those who vaccinate for the good of all. The situation we are experiencing is all new, we know, even if it has already been a year and a half; on the way, we have found different solutions and nobody has the magic recipe. I have heard colleagues list recipes, solutions and therapies, but no one has the magic recipe and there is only the path we are making, because we have never experienced this moment. We're trying to get out of this in every way we can, and the green pass is one of them. I would like to remind you - because here memory seems really lacking, but it must be strengthened - that we have had almost 150,000 dead, but not only. I would also like to mention here all the delays in the monitoring of chronic and oncological diseases, which will leave sequels for citizens who have seen their visits suspended, in order to step up those who unfortunately needed to enter the hospital as a matter of urgency. Many cancer patients have delayed the follow-up of their diseases, worsening them; in the coming years we will count these outcomes at a distance. Many acute patients have been adequately treated in our country. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of something else. Those who smooth their hair to those who do not want to vaccinate unwittingly go against those who have the needs that I have just accepted, that is those who cannot wait to enter an operating room and have at their disposal the anesthetists, who unfortunately are still concentrated to assist those who, according to statistics, are in intensive care because they are not vaccinated (they are in fact data). Doctors, when they have to go back to putting on their protection suits so they don't get infected or when they see them going through the lanes, they shudder. A doctor told me: I saw a white suit passing, Paola, and I was terrified of coming back as before. This is also our responsibility to health professionals, whom we must always thank. We don't have to go back. We remember all the upset, grieved and frightened faces of doctors and nurses who could not cope with anything ever seen in their lives. Then the arrival of so many serious patients, the fears, the discouragement in seeing so many people die. I remind my colleague Malan that there have been so many deaths in Italy - it is true - but we have an important fact: we are one of the countries with the oldest and longest-lived population. It is obvious that the more you go beyond the number of life that was arranged and that it had been fixed and the more you activate those chronic diseases that unfortunately break people. It is obvious that a more fragile person - that is why we vaccinated this category first - is unfortunately facing a much more serious disease and also lethality. These are the facts. These things we have to tell ourselves, to help the undecided as well. It takes more responsibility, bearing in mind who cannot choose, while the vaccine is a choice that can be made, because it is a reality. Compared to a year ago - it seems to have passed almost a geological era - we have facts and a certainty. Fortunately, science has given us an answer. It is true that we still have to see what this response will be like in the future; we are talking about the third dose and now we think that we need to cover the most fragile people again. This too, as I said, is a work in progress, as is said in the work. We need to see what we have and what we need to do. It is also true that other systems do not guarantee us: making a buffer, you have the certainty for twenty-four hours, but then completely disappears. Tampons aren't safety. What we are approving in the Senate, after a broad debate in the House, is a sort of passport that tries in every way to solve the problems, slowly making us get closer to our habits, but it is clear that we must do everything to ensure that the rules are respected. No one has ever said that with the green pass you must no longer wear the mask, nor create assemblies, just as no one has said that the vaccine must not continue to be very careful, respecting the distance, the frequent washing of the hands and all those norms that we well know. Variants are our new challenge and now represent the greatest threat, but because of not the vaccine (as someone mistakenly said, and then being corrected - fortunately - by scientists), but of those who do not vaccinate and continue to spin the variants, which then change from time to time. This little help from the green pass will allow us to go back to doing all the things we did before, such as going to the cinema, theatre, museums and cultural centers, as well as to resume normal activity. I think of the cultural context and above all - one of all - to see our children return to school in presence, as it is happening these days. You know how debilitating this pandemic has been for them and how much damage they have suffered, and now we have to help them slowly resume living with absolute security. Colleagues, unfortunately it must also be said that we always think of our little one. Of course we must think about our country, but we must also ensure that the whole world is vaccinated. Let me say this: we will never be sure if we vaccinate all our citizens, but we will forget to vaccinate the poorest countries. I therefore hope that those countries will continue to be helped, because in a global world the vaccine knows no boundaries. 12:02 p.m. (Following BOLDRINI). It seems that here we are debating in our little, evaluating the mandatory green pass to enter the restaurant and we are talking about discrimination. What discrimination! The freedom of people must be not so individual, but collective, so that the community is free from this. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to mention our President of the Republic, whose sentences are always useful to all of us to make us think: he said that vaccine is a moral and civic duty and that it serves the courage of responsibility. Colleagues, this is the time for responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rotolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I speak in this House, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot but start from a number that contains all the drama of the pandemic by Covid-19: 130,000 victims. I repeat: yesterday the 130,000 victims in Italy have been overcome since the beginning of the pandemic, February 2020. It is as if they had disappeared and there were no more cities like Ferrara or Salerno. As parliamentarians of this country, we have a duty: to take measures to minimise the spread chain of the virus, to limit deaths and to minimise the number of people admitted to intensive treatment and in the departments of our hospitals. Health is a good thing for everyone, and we must allow doctors and health workers to return to other health emergencies as well. No doubt: green pass. The measure under consideration, following the amendments and additions approved by the Chamber of Deputies, consists of 18 articles and an annex and provides for a series of regulatory changes in order to update the parameters according to which the colour of the regions is determined for the application of measures different from those valid for the generality of the national territory, taking into account, with modified percentages compared to the previous legislation, the parameter of the incidence of contagions compared to the total population and the employment rate of beds in the medical area and in intensive care. In particular, it is subject to the possession of the green pass the access to the catering services carried out by any exercise for consumption at the table, if indoors, while there is no obligation to possess the certification for the catering services within hotels and other accommodation facilities, provided that they are exclusively reserved for guests staying there. The measure we are about to vote on will be followed by even more incisive measures. We know that the government's goal is to maximize the green pass. There is no health dictatorship in our country; there are unfortunately fake news. By the way, when are we going to discuss the fake news bill, which has already been approved in the House? We have all become scientists and virologists and there are some politicians who have overwhelmed those no vax demonstrations, all too often resulting in attacks on journalists. I want here to express solidarity with the journalists who are threatened, insulted and beaten in the exercise of their constitutional duty: to inform public opinion. [[Applause]] I also want to extend my solidarity to my colleagues, colleagues and militants of the 5 Stars of Milan for the assault they have suffered at their gazebo. But what health dictatorship? I read just yesterday that the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the green pass and the rules for combating the Covid-19 do not violate people's rights. By approving this measure and, in the next few days, the others coming to the Senate will guarantee freedom. Our strongest weapon is the vaccine, but we know it's a race against time. Experts tell us that we must reach the threshold of 90 percent of the vaccinated in the next thirty days before the return of the cold causes the circulation of the virus and variants to increase; otherwise, the fight against the Covid-19 will become a very difficult chase. It will be difficult to convince the flatterers and those extremists of this variegated world of no vax. We must convince the unsure and those who are afraid, dismayed by the fake news. Colleagues and colleagues, I have listened with great respect to the speeches that preceded me, but one thing must be clear: there are no therapies or vaccines that guarantee us 100%; we are not talking about an unreal world, this is a real world. Science has been fighting this virus and, within a few weeks, a few months, it has managed to put in place and have vaccines approved. It's not like when we were kids, when polio vaccine trials and other diseases had a very long course before accessing that lump of sugar and those drops to counter and defeat them. We know that at this moment it is essential to believe in science, that is doing research, as they say, in the field: starting from scratch, over a year the vaccine has been developed and we have opened the vaccination campaign, if I remember correctly, since January of this year, so it is nine months. The validity of the green pass was prolonged from nine to twelve months and the molecular test can be performed on a salivary sample. Then there is the chapter on sanctions, which, in my opinion, is important. Having to impose in a democracy is always a danger and a discourse that is not pleasing. Of course, I have heard colleagues say that they are against the obligation, but at the moment we must win this battle, because my freedom depends on what I get on the territory, but that of the others starts where mine ends. I hope that this campaign in favour of vaccines has achieved the result. We still have a few days, thirty days, before the arrival of the cold, with the possibility of further contagion. In order to return to the sanctions, in the case of repeated violations, by the owners or managers of services and activities, of the obligation to verify the actual possession of the certification, there is the administrative penalty ancillary to the closure of the exercise or the activity from one to ten days. This is a point we find after the changes made to the House. There is a debate, which I announced earlier, about the vaccination obligation. I really hope that this will not be achieved, but, if necessary, we will approve it. I have no doubt that doctors and health workers who do not want to vaccinate should be suspended. They have to change jobs. [[Applause]] Asking today for the free or lower price of swabs to get green paper for those who are not vaccinated would discourage the vaccination campaign. Clearly, even in the presence of variants such as delta, which is very contagious, vaccines are not 100% effective, especially on infections. It means that infections are also possible between vaccinees. Flock immunity is unlikely, while we will have to learn to live with a virus that evolves and mutates. Our objective is clear: to contain and stop its diffusion to the maximum. To stop this pandemic definitively, as I have heard now in the speech of my colleague, Mr Boldrini, who spoke about it, we need a commitment from our Government and Europe to guarantee vaccines to the poor and developing countries as well. That's the only way we're gonna get out of this. We have no alternative: we must defend the right to health, work and socialism. These are values and principles that are essential for a community that wants to grow again. With these measures, we will also better defend the economy. Politics has a duty to assume its responsibilities. We are, with our responsibility and our strong support for choices of rigour and protection for all citizens. I want to end this speech by recalling what I said at the beginning: we must bring the maximum respect to the families of those 130,000 victims and do our part, assuming our responsibilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u76	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u77	Mr President, more than a speech on the subject of green passes or at least about it, I appeal to everyone: to members of the government, to all Members of Parliament, to the media, to associations, to entrepreneurs and to all citizens. We have noticed that such a heated and exasperated debate on the green pass theme yes, green pass no, vaccines yes, vaccines no there is almost only in Italy. There may be something similar in France, but in so many other European countries and in the world the debate remains on decidedly more civilized positions. The invitation we make is to try to at least lower the tones. I say this because the climate as a fan, that often in Italy is created a little 'on all topics, is our defect, which then risks making us lose lucidity. I would add, indeed, that there is also the risk, as unfortunately is happening, that positions - on green passes yes, green passes no, vaccines yes, vaccines no - become increasingly radical. This is not good for the country, because the Interior Minister Luciana Lamorgese has recently intervened, launching the alarm - I use his words - compared to the tones that rise more and more, with the risk of extremism. Since they have always taught us that the more psychological pressures increase, the greater the risk that on the other hand there will be an increasing resistance, perhaps - this is the advice we give - if the objective is to vaccinate as much as possible the population, it would be more appropriate to lower the tones, discuss, inform, explain, be as transparent as possible in the data, as Senator Ripamonti pointed out in his speech, try to respect more the positions of those who are doubtful and have difficulties, precisely because constraints and obligations risk to strengthen doubts. Starting from the assumption that in history it has always been seen that a choice, a proposal or an idea if they are good do not need constraints to assert themselves, we are of the idea that explaining, informing, educating and with reasoning you can make understand things. [[Applause]] The radicalization of positions, inevitably, ended up putting Italians against each other. I don't know if you realize it, or you've heard it, but in many families there are real conflicts, because maybe Dad wants to vaccinate his younger son, but Mom doesn't want to have arguments, tensions and such things. I think that a more careful assessment on this issue must be made absolutely. They accuse us of ambiguity, but at least on the young people - I also address the Undersecretary Sileri - we would need some caution. [[Applause]] There is talk of scientific evidence: today a study by the University of California was published about the Daily Fact, which was taken over by the Guardian in which it is concluded that children between the ages of twelve and seventeen are more at risk of side effects after the vaccine than Covid. [[Applause]] In Britain, the equivalent of the CTS has highlighted these risks, as well as some studies in Israel and Sweden itself. If caution is recommended in other parts of the world, at least on young people, let us also be cautious. We are politicians, we look at scientific evidence: are there any studies that invite us to be cautious? We're careful. That doesn't sound like some kind of reasoning. We have also witnessed tensions in schools, scenes of parents who cannot go in to accompany children because they do not have a green pass. I do not know what could happen in companies if the obligation was extended in that area. The logic is that at this moment of everything we need, except for conflicts, unrest and social clashes. [[Applause]] If positions become radical, this risk is inevitable. We debate in a more calm and moderate way and we will be able to convince the doubting people, also because the need for this exasperation could be understood and understood if we were a country with a low adhesion to the vaccination campaign and instead Italy turns out to be perhaps the country with the highest number of vaccinees. We do not therefore repent of the need for such continuous exasperation, since we are talking only about this subject. It is only the green pass and vaccines that monopolize the debates, and yet we should talk about the increase in electricity bills, immigration, land registry reform, taxation and some reforms. It seems, however, that we no longer talk about these issues and perhaps it would be appropriate to bring everything back to a more moderate dimension, also talking about many other topics. Following politics for many years, they have always told me that national cohesion comes out of emergencies, since in the past there was talk of consultation with trade unions and businesses and of national harmony, otherwise it would not explain the fact that a government of national unity has been established, with all political forces within it. So this is the path that must absolutely guide us and not by chance Matteo Salvini and we of the League talked about green pax, that is, proposing to work together to get out of this emergency, trying to confront us without exasperating too much the tones. This is the appeal we make and, addressing so many colleagues I have heard in many speeches in this House, I would remind you that freedom of expression should always be defended. What we notice is that today it is enough that anyone who makes even a single doubt or a minimum of critical analysis of what is happening, so that he is immediately put to the doom of the media, considered a no vax, an ignorant and an incompetent, and even must lose all the rights of citizenship. This also happens in the face of interventions by philosophers, professors and teachers also belonging to the same world of the left. Instead, I think that as Members - and this is my invitation - we should always bear in mind that freedom of expression must be defended, guaranteed by our Constitution. In the same way, in the relationship between rights such as health and the various freedoms provided for in the Constitution, I invite everyone to try to work together, so that there is a real balance, to avoid the risk of not protecting certain rights, which are also enshrined in the Constitution, such as that at study or at work (since the Italian Republic is based on work), or some freedoms guaranteed at constitutional level. So, only with a little balance and a little patience will we be able to go in that direction, trying in every way to respect even those who do not think like us. In conclusion, since there has been talk of the message of ambiguity, I remember that on these issues in all parties and throughout the country there are inevitably different sensibilities: these are not in fact historical political themes that the center, right or left carry forward with historical positions consolidated over the years. The Leagues on this issue are accused of proposing unclear messages, but in fact they voted in favour of the green pass in the Council of Ministers and in the House of Deputies and today they will vote for trust, if it is placed, or the measure, if it is not placed. These are the facts. Then it is right and proper to give space in Parliament also to different sensibilities that can be within not only a party, but the whole country. [[Applause]] It is within Parliament that discussions must take place. They explained to me politicians with much more experience than I do that it is much better to discuss such problems here than to have them discussed in the squares: history teaches in this direction. [[Applause]] It is much better to discuss it in these classrooms, and then to avoid anyone being able to exploit it: we are in the electoral campaign, it is understandable and fine, but let us bear this in mind too. Speaking of messages, I was pleased that Senator Boldrini highlighted this aspect in her speech, because it was correct: if we have to give messages and we want to be more and more honest in this respect, let us be careful on the green pass not to give a sense of false security. I remember that the idea - freedom, let's go back to normal - that with the green pass basically the Covid is no longer there. Since, even if to a lesser extent - as has been mentioned - a person vaccinated with one or two doses can infect and infect others, caution must always be preached, the use of the mask, the distance. We can't all go back to hugging and kissing as if there hadn't been the Covid, because we have a duty to say that everyone must always protect themselves. The green pass is therefore a tool that can help keep activities open, as it is right that it is because we want to return to normal, but we also give messages that are as clear as possible. Otherwise, it would not explain why the President of the Draghi Council, when he is to host someone, does not consider it sufficient to be vaccinated with the double dose, but also wants to have the negative buffer of the day. This is another element. Moreover - for example - the Israeli Premier tells everyone, even the vaccinees, to keep their distance because, if you want to contain the virus, you cannot think that everything has passed and you can safely live freedom. So it's right, and we want to go that way. But as politicians we have a duty to give clear messages, because our objective is clearly to get out of the health and economic emergency once and for all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u78	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u79	Mr President, I know that I can count on your understanding and that of my fellow Members here to the fact that what I am about to say is not an obvious fact. It is reopening the school, a goal desired by the students themselves, by families, from all over the country; a goal that Movimento 5 Stars has always put among the priorities for the healthy psychological and relational growth of the children, for their cultural and civic maturity, for the competitiveness of our production system. It is restarting the economy after the crisis suffered by the pandemic, both in terms of gross domestic product and employment. Sports tournaments are starting again, and I am not referring so much to Serie A, as to the sports practice of many young people and adults, without forgetting the fundamental physical activity for the elderly and disabled. Cultural events are taking place again, like the recent Venice International Film Art Exhibition. It is like seeing the natural blood circulation restart after an open heart surgery: it is a spectacle that raises us and that must be carefully protected. However, whenever these facts are not considered in the debate, what I have to say cannot be regarded as obvious. Exactly a year ago we saw most of the sacrifices made in spring disappear, due to the recovery of the contagions, and we had a further and very heavy pandemic wave that brought painful restrictions. We are now faced with the new variants and the two of them: either we are still considering the possibility of adopting restrictions on the activities of citizens, families, businesses and workers - and I believe that no one here is taking such a misfortune - or we are using instruments to prevent and control those contagions, which insinuate precisely in the resumption of exchanges in the communities. I am counting on you to disassemble certain absurdities, because they are dangerous and - allow me - they will also harm those who, by political calculation or guilty ignorance or naive good faith, want to insist on spreading them. I'm counting on you to finally explain the truth. The green pass is not an instrument, not of coercion, but of freedom. Yes, it is an instrument of freedom. [[Applause]] Some people forget that the measures of distance and even the obligation of mask were challenged as an unconstitutional limitation of freedom. Those same people today contest the constitutionality of the green pass, which instead aims to avoid those limitations. They were wrong yesterday and they keep making mistakes today. In 2020 we had no alternative: the measures of distance and targeted closures were universally recognized as the most effective weapon available, so much so that legally they confirmed themselves fully legitimate and other countries followed us in the example. Today, however, there are alternatives. How can you think of keeping museums, theatres, restaurants, sports facilities, fairs, congresses, village festivals closed or limiting them to a closed number when there are solutions for this not to happen? Can it be said to a person who has faced Covid-19 and is healed and immunized, that he reasonably does not run and does not make others run danger, that he still has to give up attending an evening course or arrange the marriage he has always wanted? This would be an unconstitutional restriction, because it is unjustified. The green pass does nothing but attest to a condition that is already in place. The same applies to those who have been vaccinated. We know that the immunity given by the vaccine is a little less extensive and prolonged than that given by the disease, but its effectiveness is wide and macroscopically evident. The vaccine kills infections of 77 percent, 93 percent of cases with severe illness, 96 percent of admissions to intensive care. This means that those who do not vaccinate - legitimate choice, except for special cases - have a probability of getting seriously ill nine times higher, thirteen times higher than reaching the ICU, fifteen times greater than dying. Despite today's more effective care, we cannot wait until the infected virus. Yesterday we had seventy-two deaths and let's remember that for every deceased person there are many others that will take long, sometimes forever, the signs of the disease to different organs: heart, blood vessels, brain, kidneys, pancreas, sexual apparatus. The statistical evidence in favour of vaccines is really flashy; contesting them because they would not give absolute coverage is really unscientific. I do not understand how the vaccine can be challenged - be careful, even those who have become ill in a small percentage can still get infected - and then ask to proceed only with swabs. Not even the swabs are infallible, because a small margin of error has it and because it is possible to be negative even in the very first stages of the disease. I believe that the approach adopted is absolutely balanced. This pandemic has always required risk management, it does not give us any certainty in almost any area. Leaving supermarkets open last spring was a reasoned risk management; just as it is today to establish that inside a store can enter three, five or ten people is a probabilistic but scientific assessment because science proceeds statistically. It is scientific certainty that exceeds a minimum probability of happening. Managing the risk today then means allowing those who are immunised to move more freely, allowing entrepreneurs and professionals to carry out their activities because they have a good estimated safety threshold. A few more points, President. I do not deny that the green pass, seen from another point of view, if you like, represents an incentive, an advantage to vaccination, but there are aspects that must be strongly detected. First of all, he does not force himself to vaccinate. You can also access the green pass through the tampons and therefore no one is prevented from accessing a movie theater, a museum or working. However, the possibility of using salivary swabs will make this option even easier. Therefore, there is no unconstitutional compression of freedoms. We must not forget another aspect. The Movimento 5 Stars said that the obligation will be used only in extreme cases, as an extrema ratio. If we find ourselves in such an emergency, I want to see who will refuse such a measure. We will not get there, however, and we will not get there if we have the necessary support for preventive strategies. In any case, we must not forget - and on this I want to be clear - that our Constitution does not only establish a conditional freedom to accept care; conditional because - someone forgets - no one can be subjected to compulsory care except by law. So, under certain circumstances, it is the same Constitution that provides for it. In addition, Article 2 of the Constitution requires the fulfilment of the mandatory duties of political, economic and social solidarity and, therefore, intergenerational solidarity between young people who risk less in case of contagion, the elderly and those most at risk. Translated in concrete terms means that a young person cannot raise shoulder straps because he has a limited risk of serious consequences, but must contribute to reducing the circulation of the virus. You can do this by washing your hands, using disinfectants, wearing the mask where there is assembly and not excluding vaccination a priori. To those who claim that the risk of death in young people is very rare, I respond that even the risk of vaccine is really exceptional. And where age cannot be the only parameter, because they are also to be considered the people that a young person can have in the family, those with whom he comes in contact, there are the fragility of others or his own pathologies. I say then that as long as the vaccine risk is less than the risks determined by choosing not to vaccinate, one thought should be done. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u80	The general debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u81	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to all my colleagues and I would like to highlight just a few aspects. I have heard inaccuracies, and I would like to start with the definition of green passes. Some people believe that the green pass is an indirect obligation to vaccination. The green pass has two legs: one is clearly vaccination, and is therefore stronger, and in terms not only of effectiveness - as a doctor I think the effectiveness is greater - but also numerical, having 40 million Italians completed the vaccination cycle, so I speak from the point of view of the number; the other leg is diagnostic, by buffer, rapid tests, etc. So, the green pass is not a vaccination obligation because the subject has an option, and I connect to what Senator Malan said when he spoke of informed consent, for any therapeutic, diagnostic act. Of course, the green pass does not need informed consent, but offers an alternative, and where there is an alternative there is a choice, and where there is a choice there is no obligation, until proven otherwise. Let's see what led to the introduction of the green pass in Italy, and I'll jump back about two months. Between the end of June and the beginning of July Italy was invaded - from all points of view - by the delta variant; a variant that has gone to replace the English variant, which in turn had replaced the original virus coming from Wuhan; delta variant that infects with a speed and a certainly greater effectiveness and that has been contained - I would say brilliantly - in Italy, so much so that today we travel about 4,000-5,000-6,000-7,000 cases, when instead the early July in the United Kingdom, where it had spread since before, there were about 60,000 cases per day (between 45,000 and 60,000; in short, numbers ten times higher than ours. I have two comments: the first is that we have been able to contain it certainly thanks to better vaccination and I mean not so much as total numbers of doses of vaccine administered, but as for the mode, having completed many more second doses than - for example - the United Kingdom. The other form of containment was precisely the green pass in the form of diagnostics thanks to the swabs that allowed to detect positives not tracked by a chain of contagion; people who, in order to obtain the green pass, went to take a test. So, they found positive that they wouldn't be detected and were removed from the pool of potential virus donors. This contained, in July and August, the diffusion of the delta variant in Italy. It is, therefore, an excellent diagnostic medium. The second point I want to make is on the effectiveness of vaccines, so I will respond not in a stuttering way, as one senator said, anything else. Back to the United Kingdom: 60,000 cases a day, 85-90 deaths. Let me remind you that the days 4, 5 and 6 January 2021 the United Kingdom had 60,000 contagions and 1. Thousands dead a day. The effectiveness of vaccines is undeniable. I hope to have explained more fully, and also simply, what the green pass represents today. Then, we can discuss the duration: of course, there will not be a green pass forever, it is obvious; as there will not be a mask forever or an interpersonal distance forever. However, I have heard some say that this solution is not good, that this means is not good, that this risk management - I love the words used by Senator Endrizzi - through the green pass does not work. Okay, but whoever says it doesn't work indicates an alternative. Tell us because, if there is an alternative, we really have made a great discovery. If there really is an alternative to the green pass, if there really is an alternative to the vaccine, if we really confuse the vaccine with the cure, then something is wrong. [[Applause]] And here I am referring to what Senator Romeo said, of which I share 98% of what he said. Let's take a step back, then, and discuss the green pass. Some people like it and some people don't, some people don't want the obligation and some people want the obligation. The same applies to the vaccine: obligation immediately, obligation after, obligation over sixty years, obligation over twelve years. We remove everything, we remove obligation and we remove green passes, then: we do not talk about green passes, nor about vaccination obligation. Let's talk about something essential. We're 315 senators in here. How many of us think the vaccine saves our lives? Period. This is the main discussion. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, this makes people out of this House confused, which would not happen if we, all of us in this House, were to say today that the vaccine saves our lives. Period. Politics discusses the obligation, politics discusses the green pass, but it cannot discuss something that is pure science, that is, that vaccine saves life. Period. Let's discuss everything else. You're right, Senator Romeo, when you say we have to lower our tones. Let's put them all down. You can't go to an autogrill and be attacked by no vax, and it's not fair that 5 Star, League, or anyone's activists are attacked. Step back: Does the vaccine save or doesn't it save your life? Yeah, period. For the rest, we discuss everything. Then I'll come to you. As you see, I am not stuttering, in any way and form; I have never been stuttering. Let's go to the vaccine numbers. I've heard of idiots. Forgive me. [[Applause]] I've heard the numbers confused in an improper way. I have heard that the vaccinees are more positive than those who are not vaccinated. It is clear that this is the case, because if we have 40 million Italians vaccinated, it will be easier to find a positive among the vaccinated than the 11 million not yet vaccinated. [[Applause]] I have heard that the vaccinees take the virus and transmit it: it is a falsehood, a lie. Some vaccinees take the virus and some of them can transmit it: it is not the totality. It's like saying that anyone who drives the car is in an accident: it's stupid. And then, if we want to get down to science, let's start talking about immunoglobulins, memory immunity, and interferon. I give you a very modest and very small lesson in medicine, so that those who are outside this House cannot and should not in any way continue to be misled by the false things that have been said in this House. [[Applause]] I'll explain some medicine, because the numbers can be presented, but it's how they're presented that makes the difference. If I have 1,000 people in front of me, 75 of them have taken the virus to date. Of those 75 people, two died, while among the 73 others, unfortunately, have results from Covid and then I move on to therapies. Well, the others are more vaccinated and less likely they can take the Covid. It's obvious. A person taking the Covid vaccine will most likely stop that virus in his nostrils. It cannot be said that anyone who is vaccinated can take the virus and transmit it; a small percentage of those who are vaccinated can host the virus in the nostrils. What will this virus do in a vaccine? He's gonna try to do his job, which means he's gonna try to get into that body. But that body's got meshes, it's got immunoglobulins of the kind. A in the nose, they're gonna try to block that virus. Let's say that virus is more resistant and will try to pass further; then the antibodies of that subject will block the virus. It is clear that, in that small fraction of time, that person will have the virus in his nostrils and, if he makes a swab, will be positive; but it is not said that he transmits it and it is not said that that virus is so strong and that person so weak that he can replicate and therefore infect someone else. By admitting that this can happen, the person in front must not be vaccinated to take the virus. Now she - just as everyone does no vax with their extravagant theories - cannot use the exception as if it were the rule, because the rule is not that. The rule is another. The rule is that those who are vaccinated are less likely to take the virus and transmit it. Someone may have symptoms, but they'll have fewer. And I think it's pretty intuitive for anyone -- you don't need a medical degree to figure it out -- who, even if you have some symptoms and symptoms last less, you're likely to get less. I repeat: I think this is quite intuitive. Let's move on to something even more intuitive. If today with 60,000 contagions I have 100 deaths and a year ago with the same number of contagions I had 1,000 deaths, unless it was divine providence, I believe that the only thing that changed in a year was the introduction of the vaccine. I will now focus on the treatment, because - even here - confusing what is a prevention, thanks to vaccination, with what is a cure cannot go. It's like I'm telling her that cigarette smoke hurts, and from pushing her not to smoke, I recommend surgery and chemotherapy. Forgive me, but it is better for the person not to smoke and not to take cancer, rather than perhaps, because of the large cigarette smoke, the cancer comes and you say: all right, there is the cure. Forgive me, but this is not the case because behind all this there are the outcomes of the disease. I repeat that out of those 75 per 1,000, 2 are dead and 73 are healed, but some of them have complications. I would like to see if those who have had complications would not have preferred to receive the vaccine first, rather than - perhaps - having memory disorders, pulmonary fibrosis or other problems, which I hope for many of them will be resolved in the coming months and not stay forever. There is also another factor, which is part of the health economy. I have something that, at a very low cost, allows me not to send people to hospital and I have another one that, instead, allows me to treat them at a very high cost, taking away resources from others. Forgive me, but the right information is not given: I have to treat as many people as possible and prevent as many diseases as possible even in a health economy. Misleading speeches are being made that lead people to have a reluctance which, at this point, is justified. In fact, I justify and understand people who have doubts because if we first, in here, do not clarify the first thing I said, namely that the vaccine saves life point, people out of here get lost. It's obvious. If we give data in a form like that which I have heard from some people in this House, it is right and understandable that people outside are lost. Let's not confuse treatment. We offer treatment and it is not true that we are behind. We have monoclonal antibodies and antiviral drugs that we use where they can be and need to use them, without if and without but. On the other hand, we have something much, but much more effective than any therapy, which is vaccination. I do not want to insist too much on vaccination because otherwise the green pass is confused with it. But I wanted to say these things. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u82	Go ahead, Undersecretary Sileri.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u83	Mr SILERI, State Secretary for Health. I made a premise at the beginning, when Senator Paragon wasn't there, and so I do it again: it would be so if the green pass didn't have an important diagnostic component that has allowed, to date, to keep cases around 5,000-6,000 a day when other countries didn't have this possibility. Just check the numbers in Europe: we are the country where the epidemic is going better and this is due to the green pass, directly with diagnostics and indirectly thanks to a vaccination that, like numbers, is among the best in Europe. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u84	I don't think it's that rare that, during surgery, a senator makes a comment. Go ahead, Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u85	[[Comments.]] It seems to me that intervention interventions are slowing down more than intervention itself. You're welcome, Undersecretary Sileri. Mr SILERI, State Secretary for Health. I'm almost done. I add only two points. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, you still have time. Mr SILERI, State Secretary for Health. Some colleagues have invoked the dosage of antibodies to obtain the green pass, as an alternative to vaccination, to evaluate the antibody titre. This is not yet scientifically possible, as the presence of antibodies does not necessarily outline a beneficial pattern against the virus. There is a difference between immunity acquired by vaccination and immunity acquired by the infection of the virus. There is no doubt that immunity obtained through vaccination is certainly a better and much more homogeneous quality standard in the population than the encounter with the virus and, therefore, with natural immunity. It has been said that immunity falls after six months and therefore perhaps vaccines do not serve, because after six or eight months immunity is no longer there. But, be careful, even in this case depends on the presentation of the data. It is evident that those who made the vaccine first, in case of non-immunity competence, may have a decrease in immunity and that elderly subjects of nature have a less strong immune system than young subjects. There was talk of a third dose, perhaps in a somewhat inappropriate way. When talking about the third dose the person who is at home and listens wonders if in October he will already have to make the call. But, be careful: third dose, first when, for whom and with which vaccine? For whom and when we already know: as soon as possible, in the next few weeks, as early as the end of the month and in October, for those in whom a reduction in response capacity is already demonstrated, such as transplanted patients and patients undergoing dialysis. For the rest of the population, I agree: the article that Senator Romeo mentioned now speaks of the third dose, as well as of vaccine for young people, but it is clear that for the whole population this is frankly premature. But science will give us the timing. With what vaccine? To date we have these available and it is likely that the pharmaceutical industry will present 2.0 vaccines in the coming months, which will perhaps be adapted to the new, possible variations that will arise. For vaccines to young people it is obvious that the greatest precaution is needed, but it is true that science has shown us the way with clear and unequivocal results. We must continue the vaccination among them, as in the rest of the population. I agree, however, with Senator Romeo when he points out the greatest problem in those who are over fifty or forty years old, that is, in that group of people who are most at risk. Of course, I agree with vaccination over the age of 12, but in fact I am more concerned about the over 50 who are still not vaccinated than younger subjects. However, I respond to what Senator Romeo said by saying that, where the virus circulates and can replicate, variants can arise there. That is the importance of having a high proportion of the vaccinated population. On the other hand, I do not agree - forgive me - when it is said that vaccination itself can determine a variant: it is the replication of the virus that determines the variant. I agree with the debate on the obligation when it has to be taken out of the national border. In fact, the variants circulating to date have been imported and - as you said just now - it is necessary that the rest of the Western countries and those less fortunate than us reach high quotas of vaccinated people, in order to achieve that protection of communities that will of course guarantee protection also to those who have not vaccinated themselves and do not want to do so. Then there is one aspect that I am particularly interested in, concerning the importance of reaching 90 percent of vaccinated vaccinees. Let us not forget that our hospitals, to date, continue to be on the who goes there, waiting for patients Covid-19 who, in 90 percent of cases, are not vaccinated, slowing down normal activities. In conclusion, I remain convinced that it was our green pass, in the way in which it was designed, with vaccination on the one hand and with diagnostics on the other, to allow today to have 4,000 or 5,000 cases and to contain them. This - I repeat - with a diagnostic offer to those who would not under any circumstances have done a swab, who did not do the vaccination, who were waiting for vaccination, but who would not have done any buffer. We have thus found several positives, which were part of chains of contagion that otherwise we would not have found. Replying to Senator Crucioli, that is why we are able to contain the virus today: because the incidence of 100,000 inhabitants is kept low thanks to this green pass. [[Applause.]] 13,01 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u88	Mr Paragon (Misto-I-PVU). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business, but only to congratulate Mr Sileri for taking all the time for his speech. We had to wait for Minister D'Incà to ask the question of trust. It has thus neutralized the spirit of his speech, because it means that the parliamentary debate will be reset.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u89	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of bill No 2382, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 105 of 23 July 2021 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u91	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 105, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 1.04 p.m. and resumed at 13.34 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u92	The Conference of the Leaders has organised the discussion of the question of trust, placed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law introducing urgent measures to deal with the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19 and for the exercise in safety of social and economic activities, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The discussion on confidence, for which five minutes to the Mixed Group were allocated, on the basis of a specific request, will begin at 4 p.m. They will follow the explanations of vote and call you. After the vote of confidence, until 8 pm, the general discussion on the bill of delegation to the Government for the reform of the civil process will begin. The sitting shall be suspended until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.35 a.m. and resumed at 16.00 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u93	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u95	Mr Paragon (Misto-I-PVU). Mr President, we are dangerously flattening on a strange form of institutional architecture, i.e. imperfect monocameralism. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is not an intervention on the order of business. Mr Paragon (Misto-I-PVU). It is an intervention on the order of business in the sense that we are unable to work... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u96	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u97	Mr President, first of all, before the five minutes for the debate on trust start, I wanted to point out to you that Secretary Sileri, when he replied a moment ago, referring to the arguments put forward by my Group, said that he listened to idiotic things in this House. Then I would ask you to stigmatize the fact, because undersecretary Sileri must remember that here he is in the House of Parliament, the representatives of the Italian people and he is a representative of the Government. You cannot afford to come to this House, without being taken up again, to say that you have heard nonsense here. If you think like me, I ask you to stigmatize the fact, otherwise you run the risk that I will give you here for not having answered the questions that I had put on time.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u98	Senator Crucioli, I wasn't presiding. It will be my job to verify the shorthand report and make sure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr President, I would also like to know how this is going to end because it is in the acts that he said 'idiocies'. Coming to the point, undersecretary Sileri obviously did not know how to respond to the punctual questions that we put in relation to the unreliable report of the Higher Institute of Health of 10 September, he put in our mouths some things that we have never said. We never dreamed of saying that all vaccinees can get infected. We have also said 'the vaccinees', so let us go back to our intervention. Those of those who, not knowing how to answer, respond to things that have not been said, are imbossing techniques. Having said that, I will explain better with one simple example; if out of ten vaccinated and ten not vaccinated, I take the swabs to ten not vaccinated and I find that there are two positive cases and instead only to five of the vaccinated I find one, two out of ten does not mean that in that audience they get sicker, it will only mean that I have sought more. Okay? This is one of the macroscopic errors of the Higher Institute of Health which raises the question that, in order to overestimate the effectiveness of reducing infection, the Institute has not responded to a scientific need, but to a political aim of proving the effectiveness of the vaccine rather than impartially assessing its effectiveness. Furthermore, Parliament was not allowed any scientific insight into this point because the measure arrived at the Commission yesterday. We could have done this in August, we could have auditioned, we could have gone into scientific matters, but it was cleared in half an hour. Today the debate on the issue of trust will last five minutes; only I have been signed up to speak. Is that Parliament's respect? However, the fact remains that there is also a opaque management of data by the Government, the Technical and Scientific Committee and the Higher Institute of Health. If we add to this a hammering media propaganda, a partial scientific disclosure and polluted by conflicts of interest, the consequence is in the eyes of all, that is, a rift of society unprecedented in republican history. The climate of perennial emergency, of lies, of fear and hatred created by art leads me to believe that the reasons underlying today's measure are not those declared, but respond to logics of reduction of democratic spaces, of centralization of power and of pursuit of economic interests, even in a geopolitical key, much more than to real health needs. For these reasons, I believe that all of you are making yourselves complicit in the dangerous anti-democratic drift taken by this Government, and for this reason I leave my firm opposition to this measure to the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u100	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u103	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, last winter, in the middle of the second wave, I told this House about the project of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano for certification allowing access to indoor areas. At first, that initiative was seen with suspicion; then, fortunately, everyone realized that this is the most effective way to track and prevent new infections. To say it are the numbers of the last few weeks: the green pass, combined with the great success of the vaccination campaign, has allowed to keep at bay that Delta variant that at some point seemed to get out of hand. For this reason, philosophical discussions on the limitation of freedom leave the time they find. There can be no freedom without safety for health; there can be no freedom that does not feed on solidarity and a sense of responsibility for others, for those who are more fragile, for those who are sick. There can be no freedom if we do not remove the pressure on health facilities, if we do not recover the 100 million screenings that have been blown up in Europe which, as is estimated, have caused us to lose a million cases of cancer on the streets. It is, then, worth saying it in the words of the President of the Republic: do not call for freedom to avoid vaccination. President, yesterday morning Minister Franco explained this very well: on the strong economic vivacity of the last months, on the winter season of tourism always hangs the sword of Damocles of the pandemic. However, it would be misleading to make just one economic speech, even though it is a fundamental issue such as maintaining employment levels. Welcome to the extension of the green pass if this will help us avoid the circulation of the virus, then limit the risk of new variants. Welcome to the green pass if this will help us not to close schools anymore, to stop seeing children and adolescents in front of a computer, to help in the study all those who in these two years have not had a family to fill the training holes. In South Tyrol, where the school started a week earlier, eight classes went back to DAD: this is to say how much more everything can get out of hand quickly. We then explain to the fearful and skeptical that a vaccine given to 5 billion people has far exceeded the trial phase; that the real risks are not the very rare cases of side effects, but those related to the contraction of the disease. Try to convince them again; but in the meantime the government will not stand still. The green pass will soon be extended to the world of work and work will begin on the vaccination obligation that remains, yes, an extreme solution, but the only one that can be reached if the target targets are not reached in a few weeks. President, only a year ago we were at the dawn of a second wave that made the triple death of the first one; the vaccine was still very far away and the economic data were disastrous. Thanks to one of the most successful vaccination campaigns in Europe, to the stubbornness of those who did not give up at work, to the incisiveness of this Government and to the commitment of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, we are in a completely different scenario. It is enough to compare Italian data with those of other European countries to understand how much it has been and how important it is that we all turn in the same direction. And then the government goes on, you keep deciding on the basis of the data, the indications of science, doing whatever it takes to finally leave this very hard season behind. It is with these wishes that I announce the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u106	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, let us consider this decree-law a fundamental weapon in the fight against Covid, especially after the changes that have been made in the debate in the other branch of Parliament. We have been trying for many months to face the dramatic health and economic situation that has taken us off guard, generated by this pandemic arrived unexpectedly. It is trying in every way and with all possible means to get out of it. Every time this issue is discussed, we should remember the 130,000 deaths and at the same time the disruption of our country's health system. We know that the priority of the fight against Covid has led to delays in the monitoring of chronic diseases. Many cancer patients have delayed the follow-up of the disease, making it worse. We will count these outcomes at a distance in the coming years. Let us remember, because we must do so, the upset, grieved and frightened faces of doctors and nurses, who could not cope with something never before seen in their lives when patients arrived. We remember fear and discouragement in seeing their colleagues die from the virus. We started from this situation that, at the beginning of 2020, shocked our country and from which it is trying to get out. Italy is playing a decisive game for its future. Or we can contain the virus, limit its spread, counter variants, protect our public health or we will have to face a new period of restrictions and the same economic recovery, which today seems to be taking on a more structural character and which is spreading more optimism among entrepreneurs, will crash against the wall of the irresponsibility of a minority of population. Thanks to science today we have an important response to give to our population and this is why it seems intolerable the attitude of those who, in order to obtain a handful of votes or prominence, smooth the hair to those who spread skepticism and imaginative theories no vax. Some party leaders should help build a climate of confidence, rather than fuel the reservoir of those who spread false news or who propose themselves in crazy attitudes. One must not lend side by side to runaways trying to block roads and stations on the basis of irrational and unfounded theories. [[Applause]] What we approve today is a decree that has in its heart the theme of the green pass, a passport that does not solve problems, is obvious. No one thinks that with the green pass you should no longer use the mask, just as nobody thinks that the vaccine should not continue to be attentive to the distance, the washing of the hands and all those norms that we know well. Nobody says this, but it is indisputable that the green pass will allow us to attend cinemas, theatres, museums, cultural centers and will allow us to resume normal activity, culture, sport and then, last, to return to the restaurant. The measure that we are about to vote therefore defines the green pass as a fundamental tool for the restart of the country. It is certainly not liberticidal, as I have heard from many, on the contrary, I believe that it is a measure that favours the freedom of movement and action of so many citizens who so far, not being in possession of this vaccine passport, had to behave differently. I did not hear from those who supported the uselessness of the green pass of alternative evaluations. I have not heard what alternative instruments would be, because if they were there, we would be ready to listen here, but we see that there are no alternative solutions. I believe that this House, as has been said by many this morning, should find common intentions to encourage the Government to step up its efforts to increase vaccination. We have some worrying data from the 50 to 59 year old group, with millions of people who have chosen not to vaccinate us. This also makes us different from the rest of Europe, because we are talking here today with the rest of Europe, where for the same age group the number of vaccinees is much higher than that of Italy. Above all, I sometimes remain a little grounded by the fact that our term of comparison at European level has become Denmark, an extraordinary country that is certainly at the forefront on many aspects, certainly also on the management of health care, but it is still a country that has the population of Veneto. So perhaps, when we compare ourselves with the rest of Europe, we try to have a somewhat broader vision and not limited to some countries, which may not adopt the green pass, but which are not the leading countries in terms of the European Union's set-up. I believe that it will be important for all political actors to understand that there is not something at stake that concerns the right, the left or the centre, but more generally the health of our citizens. And then it would be useful to put aside the search for consent and work together to defeat the virus, because the alternative to the vaccine and the defeat of the virus is only that of the new closures, red zones and lockdown. This decree-law - as I said before - has been improved in many respects. In an explanation of vote there is no point in retracing the regulatory characteristics that characterize it, because much has been said about it in general discussion and last week in the House. Important improvements have been made in the analysis of the decree-law itself. It is right to remind some of them, such as, for example, the rule allowing the daily right of visit in the RSA to family members with green passes. There have been important rules on local public transport, the extension for administrative justice about remote hearings, the alignment of the current legislation on the green pass for parties related to civil and religious ceremonies, which made this rule difficult to implement, for some discrasies, the extension of the validity of the green pass to twelve months. Some speakers have also paid attention to the debate that has taken place most in the House; but this is now a problem that is useless to remember every time. The emergency leads the Government to issue decree-laws and, consequently, these must be converted within the limit of sixty days; very often one House manages to deepen its content, while the other must necessarily ratify it. This is not an exciting aspect, which concerns us, but we are also in a state of emergency, which requires this kind of work for Parliament. We will vote in favour of the conversion of this decree-law. The green pass is an instrument that recalls the value of the community and the ability to be together. It is a battle that we have decided to fight from the beginning and on this choice taken we strongly support the Government. We are, as Gruppo Italia Viva, for the green pass and for the vaccine. This war at first saw us intimidated, but now it sees us indefeated fighters. Those who decide not to vaccinate, putting their own and others' health at risk, decide to cooperate with the virus; and we cannot accept that. That is why we are voting with conviction today on the green pass and the conversion of the decree-law. It is a further piece in the fight against coronavirus, awaiting the next decree-law, which will certainly be even more important, about the strengthening of the mandatory green pass in the workplace. By virtue of these assessments, we reiterate our favourable vote on the conversion of the decree-law. Yes to the green pass, yes to the vaccine, because only in this way can Italians and the world - because this is a pandemic that knows no borders - regain their freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u109	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, at the beginning of my speech I would like to thank the representative of the Government, Mr Sileri, because this morning, for the first time since I sat in this House, the representative of the Government has argued, at the end of the general debate, about the measure under discussion. I believe that this is a desirable record, to be celebrated, and so I gladly celebrate it. It has, however, done so in a heartfelt way, and this is also welcome, in a debate on a subject that has seen us engaged for almost two years now. Now I, President, would ask you to suspend the time available to me, because I am about to make absolutely useless and pleonastical statements (this is a joke, of course). The vaccine saves life; Brothers of Italy says so and Franco Zaffini says, vaccinated in double dose with the vaccine that was entrusted to me by the Regional Health Service. Vaccinate are all my family, my two families; and I am very happy about it. Vaccinate are all I know: friends, relatives, acquaintances and colleagues. Brothers of Italy says: the vaccine saves life. [[Applause]] After that, I would ask everyone to continue with the substance of this measure, which deals not with the vaccine but with the passport. The passport is useful for us, as long as it is voluntary. The passport is a way of documenting that the person who owns it has crossed one of the two paths: the double vaccine, or the swabs. If the possibility of using both roads is guaranteed - and, therefore, voluntarily documenting your status in relation to the virus - we are absolutely in favour of the use of your passport in a voluntary way, encouraging and facilitating it. Now you can start the time again. We are absolutely opposed to the mandatory passport in a widespread way, with measures that cut horizontally and create a series of doubts and perplexities that, in the performance of our mandate, we are obliged to present, after having made all the plionistic premises of before. We're not no vax, we're pro vax. My colleague Mr Sileri, with reference to his statements, I say that they are very convincing, first of all for his party colleagues. I listened to Mr Endrizzi this morning. My colleague Mr Sileri and my colleagues in the Committee on Health and Health, during the first years of the Commission's work we have heard very discordant opinions on the provaxes by the representatives of his party. Therefore, if you have managed today to electrocute, on the way to Pregliasco, your colleagues, I tell you twice good. He electrocuted on the way to Pregliasco, rather than Sileri. Forgive me, though, for this does not prevent us from continuing to ask the usual questions to which we expect answers. You, my colleague, Mr Sileri, refer to the passport with an important diagnostic component. I have appreciated this passage, among others, of your speech and I fully agree with it. But let me ask you two questions. As for the first, poor Senator Zaffini, since March 2020, has told stories in this House (because with this, evidently, you have measured yourselves with the Government) about the need to make swabs at least five or six times as much as has always been done to find the asymptomatic ones. Today you confirm that there is an important diagnostic component in your passport because people who wouldn't make the vaccine and the swab, because they can't leave the house, do the swab. Something's not right. Are the swabs needed or not needed? Talk to his minister. Let me turn to the second question on the swabs. If we give the passport in two ways - vaccine and swabs - why are the vaccines free, while the swabs are paid for all? [[Applause]] Why do we not recognize the possibility of making swabs paid by the National Health Service? Someone said that otherwise the swab would be a way out of the vaccine. This is Soviet regime stuff. I understand that you, my colleague, sometimes refer to those procedures and practices, but for us freedom, conviction and treatment of emergencies are worthwhile and not obligatory. Therefore, if we do not pay for the swab, to force people to make the vaccine, and because the swabs must also be made by those who are unable to make the vaccine, a shadow cone is determined between those who are relieved from the obligation and the others, because there are pathologies in the middle belt that no one is able to certify according to the exemption from the vaccine. These people must be covered by swabs, which cannot be paid. People can't spend 20-25 euros every two or three days or once a week, otherwise they lose their jobs. Because, colleagues on the left, if you don't make tampons, you lose your job! That's what CGIL says. It's not just Zaffini. Forgive me, colleague Sileri, I have another question. We are starting again with the school and have denounced countless times the theme of the chicken classes. You know, my colleague Sileri, how many classes in Italy today have more than 27 pupils, who are journalistically called chicken classes? That's 13.761. Yes, 13.761; but they will have decreased compared to last year or compared to two years or three years ago, because we will have understood that there is the problem of Covid-19? Have we done anything yet? At least one or two or ten or twenty will we be able to turn them from chicken classes into normal classes? No. There are 4,000 more this year than last year. Do you want to know what the additional aggravating factor is, colleagues? That this year, there's no more space this year. It's a crime, there's no longer a subway obligation! Other than crawling, assigning no vax licenses or playing with words: let's assume the responsibilities, from serious people, from State worthy of this name! Moreover, not providing for the arrangement of a long story like that of the chicken classes is a missed opportunity, because this problem is not only, evidently, a problem of Covid, but also of didactics that is ineffective compared to the need to train our children for the future. We are missing an opportunity because it has been estimated that, in order to solve the problem of the chicken classes, we need 300 million; we do not need who knows what, we need 300 million and we have allocated only 22 million. On the other hand, we spent huge sums on... For what? Come in, colleagues. Can you think of what we spent a huge amount of money on school? Come in alone. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, without mentioning the subject of transport, of course. You get on the buses that take the kids to school, obviously without any precautions. Even the Minister of Education - President, we are really unlucky in Italy with the ministers of the school, because we pick them up with the lantern - says that if in the class they are all vaccinated you can also not use the mask. So no mask, no distance meter, and what's going on in schools? What's going on in schools, my colleague Sileri? Mr President, I should like to end with a simple, trivial joke. It was not an order of business but an explanation of vote. That is yet another vote of confidence. Colleagues, aren't you ashamed? Do you have 95% of the Members of Parliament and continue to "shoot" our vote of confidence, preventing us from discussing the amendments in the Commission and in the House? And tomorrow you'll have another vote of confidence. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Applause]] Still votes of confidence with a hypertrophic majority like the prostate? Stop! No more vows of trust! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u110	Senator Crucioli, I checked the shorthand report. Actually, undersecretary Sileri spoke of "idiozie", but he also said "forgive me", so there is an apology. However, I call on the Undersecretary to give more appropriate content and words to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u113	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, authoritative representatives of the Government, meanwhile, for my part I applaud the Government, the President of the Council, the Minister of Health for the consistency with which they are carrying out this epochal battle for our society and for the measures in continuity: what we are discussing today and voting here in the Senate, but also those that have been issued in recent weeks and what, I believe, will be approved tomorrow by the Council of Ministers. In my view, such incisive action was desirable and absolutely necessary. I believe that the combination of careful and determined programming of such an intense vaccination programme, which is giving great results, and the policy of the vaccination passport (or green pass, however you want to call it) is the best solution in the face of this pandemic that has no precedent. I say, even with pride, that we have become an example for Europe and for the world. We are working well and we simply have to continue to do so. I'm proud to support these government choices on behalf of the Democratic Party. Moreover, we have also heard a clear exploitation of the situation in this House. Italy today would need a unity of intent, a call to collective responsibility and individual responsibility. Today we should all have supported together the need for vaccination of all Italians. Today, the need to move forward with the green pass in a progressive and decisive manner should have been supported together. That's for a simple reason. I say this to my colleagues of Brothers of Italy and to my colleagues, also to the majority, who have taken different positions, on which I will then return: simply for the interest of our national community; simply because Italy needs this; simply because scientific evidence dictates this behavioral line to us. The results are clear, in parallel with what is happening in the rest of the world. There must also be no shame in giving up a small part of our individual freedom, because it is for a greater good, which is the right of everyone to return to the freedom we know, to the freedom that our Republic and our democracy have guaranteed us. [[Applause]] When I hear against the green pass and even against the vaccine, claiming that it is done to defend freedom, I wonder what is the concept of freedom to which reference is made. What's the concept? We must simply hope to return to full citizenship, what the Constitution wishes for each of us, for each of our fellow citizens. Full freedom means simply being able to move, being able to enjoy a cinema and theatre, going to the stadium, being able to participate in political meetings, trade unions, voluntary associations, fully fulfilling our important right of citizenship. Instead, it seems that freedom is something else. It seems that freedom is to be able to do what you want to do to the detriment of everyone else, to the detriment of the national community. This isn't freedom. And I add another freedom to which I hope we will return quickly; a freedom that I particularly care about in the history of my family and my personal: it is the freedom to undertake, that of doing business, that of giving work, that of doing your job. I wonder, then, what is the freedom to which reference is made. Do we want to guarantee our students that they have to go back to school? I believe that we must look ahead and we must of course, as has been pointed out in this House, think of the means of transport, in a more incisive, more determined way. I think we need to think about workplaces, starting with public employment, public services. I think we need to think about the fact that today in order to enter a restaurant the customer must have the green pass and maybe who operates and is working in that restaurant the green pass does not have to have it. I believe these are the circumstances of which we, with a sense of responsibility for the country, should discuss and reflect and that that must be - and will be - the direction of the actions of the Government, supported here by the Deputy Minister, who encourage me to strongly support this decisive trend that we are pursuing. I must also refer to a number of issues directly addressed in this debate. I have also listened with curiosity and pleasure to President Romeo's words, but his words run counter to the statements - made even a little cleverly - that constantly, even today, are found on the agencies. I refer to the statements made by his secretary Matteo Salvini during the meetings in the province of Pavia and to the statements made by some MEPs, who actually do something very serious in political terms in my opinion: they wink at a movement that has now turned out to be what it is, with the violence it has perpetrated against political militants, journalists, those who simply defend the position of the vaccine on social media for all. [[Applause]] President Romeo, colleagues of the League, what is the real League? Is the League voting for the measures in the Council of Ministers? Is the League making statements and winking at the no vax movement and somehow justifying certain attitudes? Be careful, even just to be present at some demonstrations has a significant political significance, you cannot pretend not to see it. [[Applause]] I hope, however, that the positions of your representations to the Government, of your regional presidents, will be correct, and I hope that this will be the turning point that we will see in the coming weeks. We have difficulty living together in this majority experience with those who actually are not with us on the most important battle, on the most important goal of this majority and of this government. [[Applause]] When I say that he is not with us I mean that he is not with the country, he is not with the interest of the country, he is not with the reconstruction of the country, he is not with the companies that are guaranteeing the recovery of growth, the work and therefore the distribution of wealth to us so dear. Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's passage is of particular importance, it is the vote on the first green pass decree, we expect two more and we are convinced that we are going in the right direction. I believe that we must tackle this issue with ever greater determination, because we finally see the light at the end of the tunnel, we see the restart, we see the return to individual freedoms that, in words, are dear to all, but that in reality are not so in the heart of some political forces who think on this subject to win some votes for the local elections. [[Applause]] I'm not afraid of words, I think trying to do this operation is shameful and not worthy of these buildings. We are with the Dragons Government, we are with Minister Hope, we are in favour of the green pass, we are in favour of freedom and vaccination for all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u116	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, my colleague, Senator Ruotolo, has already motivated our strong vote in favour of this measure and the choice of the green pass. Therefore, I would also like to try, as has already been done by other Members who have preceded me, to participate in the current debate. Without interrupting the time of my intervention, I would say that, if I understood correctly, we all support vaccination as a strategic element. There is no need to counter vaccination to treatments and monoclonals, because they are something else. I would therefore like to say to my colleague Senator Zaffini that, probably, the Italians need an emphasis on this reasoning on your part, because they did not understand it and because many ambiguous messages came from this point of view. Secondly, the green pass is not an attack on freedom, but, in its two forms, it is a useful and indispensable tool for ensuring mobility and productive activities. I appreciate that the government, seeking a relationship with the social forces, which is indispensable, works to extend the green pass to public work and private work. If these two aspects are clear, ladies and gentlemen, we have few problems, we are on the right track and we should all try to give a clear message. First of all, we should fight all against fake news in terms of vaccines and their risks, vaccine control, the logic of political conspiracy in relation to the vaccine and so on. We all know, in fact, that this is what travels on the Internet and everyone, consistent with the principles we have stated before, should oppose this way of representing not the truth, but the lie. [[Applause]] and also a certain tendency, not only relative to the Covid-19, to a conspiracy vision, which would propose the need for psychological reflection. I'm convinced of that, but let's just leave it alone and move on. So we have to fight this, and we know that there are no vaxes, who have gravely wrong and dangerous positions, with violent forms that - as has been done - are being blamed by all. We must do these three things, because I think that those who have not yet chosen to vaccinate, are not all no vax, but are people who do not have certainties and we have the task of giving them answers, without ambiguity and with responsibility. Colleagues, if anyone is looking for a vaccine that responds safely and without any 100 percent risk, it is clear that this vaccine does not exist, but not only for Covid: no vaccine is like that! That must be clear. There is no point in searching for the data. Does anyone have any doubt that vaccines have made it possible to significantly reduce deaths, access to intensive care and hospital admissions? Is there anyone who can stand up and say something stupid like that? No, there isn't, because the evidence is clear. This is what we must explain to the citizens, precisely in order not to get to the obligation; if we are forced by dynamics, we will only get to the obligation if we lose this cultural battle, as well as scientific merit. However, if we lose it, it is clear that those who reason on political positioning will be responsible for taking some more votes from the no vax area. [[Applause]] And then tomorrow they won't be able to explain to us that for freedom they are against the obligation. This reasoning is very serious. Senator Romeo, I agree to keep your tones down. I understand, too, that those over 50 who haven't had the vaccine yet are not all no vax and that we have to convince them. The problem we are putting to you is not in its tone, nor in taking into account the objective difficulties that exist. The problem we put to you is when you actually politically express yourself against the choices of the government you are part of. This is the problem and, even to lower your tones, you should not do so from now on, because it is not a question of the programme, but of a fundamental issue on which we are all committed. I would also like to make a second brief thought. The battle is by no means yet won. Just look at what happens in the United Kingdom or Israel with the theme of variants. I continue to insist and on this point I recover a part of Senator Zaffini's reasoning. We need to test, we need to develop this work, and we absolutely need to be able to use all the technologies to get tracking faster and faster. If there is a problem that concerns the Guarantor for the protection of personal data and privacy, let's solve it; however, without tracking we will not be able to win the battle of the government of variants, which we know there will be, certainly not because of vaccines, as has already been said (but I do not want to make controversy), but because the virus itself has the vocation to vary, to skip obstacles. Tracking is therefore essential; on this we must take a step forward, have more territorial surveillance. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the G20 on health has been held. Since words are important, first of all our problem is vaccination in poor countries. The World Health Organization (WHO) a few days ago, the day after the G20 on health, gave an alarming figure: it told us that 15% of the doses promised by the rich countries to the poor countries arrived. There is no battle and Professor Fauci is right: there is no possibility of opposing variants if we do not vaccination globally. There is a problem here: the G20 is positive, but to me - I have to be honest - it has not given convincing answers, not on the objectives but on how to achieve them. For me, there is a big problem with the relationship with the Big Pharma and the problem of the suspension of patents is raised. I context the choice that Europe made to pay more Pfizer and Moderna, because in the United States Pfizer and Moderna have the same cost as the previous year and I don't understand this. And I don't understand why we don't strategically decide to invest to produce vaccines in Italy and Europe, with a different choice compared to subalternity at Big Pharma. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u119	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am here, once again with regard to Covid-19, to speak for the Forza Italia Group. I have to say that I do it with the honour I feel to the full, not only because of the responsibility to communicate to the outside as my party thinks, but also because I really share all the positions taken during this period of pandemic, since President Berlusconi initially said, since 2020, that we had to make a government of national unity with external driving, that is super partes - the best guide could only be Mario Draghi and less badly that then it was named such - until the positions taken on the vaccination plan and then on the green certificate, what in Anglo-Saxon language is known as green pass. I take this opportunity, as other colleagues have done this afternoon, to say that this is an important passage of civilization. We are absolutely certain that we must push all the way through the vaccination campaign, as General Son is doing very well, that today seems to me no one has remembered and that instead I am interested in thanking [[Applause]] for the extraordinary work of great pragmatism that has been going on for a few months now, since the Draghi Government invested him with this great honour and great responsibility. Well, we have said that the only way to avoid the deaths and to return to normal was to vaccinate the greatest number of people. We are not scientists and I do not understand - except for Senator Cattaneo, who is a senator for life - that there are scientists here, among those elected in the Senate and in Parliament. There is also Rubbia, who is a physicist, but the Cattaneo I think is more suitable for the studies he carries out. But I was referring to the political forces and the people who have been elected like me in Parliament, on behalf of political parties, to represent that political part for which we have been candidates. Yet here, in this House as in the Commission, it seems incredible, but I hear some supposed scientists, that is, people who are trying to teach us a little bit about why yes and why not, how many people are infected, because there is a percentage X rather than the percentage Y of infected people already vaccinated, or not. Colleagues, the truth is that unfortunately the political part, in a situation like this, must understand that it must of course be entrusted to science. [[Applause]] There are some issues that we cannot ignore. I am pleased to have listened to my colleague, Mrs Rizzotti, as well as my colleagues, Mr Mallegni and Mr Cangini, who have been able to interpret perfectly and consistently the position of Forza Italia, which is primarily in favour of the health of Italians and, consequently, also of the resumption of the economic activities of Italians. Dear Undersecretary Moles, when I hear that it is a sneaky way to get through the green pass the vaccine, it is true, I agree, but it is not sneaky, it is clear, evident and obvious. The green pass must be an instrument that stimulates citizens who have not yet made the vaccine; I am not referring to no vax, but to those who have the absurd fear and fear of having the consequences in terms of health. I know of pregnant women who are afraid to vaccinate when the exact opposite is true. In fact, it should never be that a pregnant woman does not take the vaccine and take the Covid: it would put her life and that of the unborn child at risk. That is what I hear from doctors and experts. Yet this happens because sometimes it seems to me that disinformation prevails, quisque de populo. My e-mail is clogged by alleged no vax, no green pass, who write about everything and find solutions because unfortunately then the Internet and social media become a dangerous vehicle of disinformation. Unfortunately, people who are willing to believe in conspiracy, as Mr Marcucci said earlier, still exist. Thanking the Lord, however, when I feel that Prime Minister Mario Draghi enjoys about 80 percent of the consent of the Italians, I reassure myself and I heart up because I see that clearly common sense prevails. I want to tell an episode that was not told to me, but it happened to me personally. A month ago I was in Pescara, my city, collecting the signatures for the referendum on justice wanted by the radicals, along with some political members of my party to welcome citizens willing to sign. Through social media, citizens had been self-convoked as no green pass or no vax - because then the distinction between them at some point gets lost - without any authorization from the police or the municipality. I was there with a banquet, I had asked for permission a week earlier and - let it be clear - I had also paid for the occupation of public land. These, which I must admit, were hundreds, at some point while they were self-exalting and loading with each other, they realized that there was a banquet of Forza Italia and they threw themselves at it, they began to insult and someone also kicked the banquet. Only then did the Forces of Order intervene to belt us; there are obviously news, photographic documents, news agencies and so on. There was a real accident because I was the victim of a no vax attack or, as they scanned, no green pass. You understand that this type of violence that is emerging in some areas is likely to have no restraint. We must be aware of the enormous responsibility that lies with us. I just heard one of our fellow senators reply to the excellent replies of Undersecretary Sileri. I must admit that today was the occasion on which he addressed the House in the best way, in his tones and in his content. I have to compliment him. [[Applause]] That's right. That's what we liberals are like. Let's say what we really think. I have to say that this totally inappropriate way of turning by misinformation and trying to stimulate people's stomachache rather than turning to people's heads then causes such problems. Just now I was reading an agency about, if I am not mistaken, a news coming from Friuli-Venezia Giulia: Trieste, 15 September (so today); asked for the green pass to a couple of passengers about to embark on a flight to London but was offended, beaten, grabbed by the neck and thrown to the ground. It happened yesterday to a worker from Friuli Venezia Giulia airport. The FIT-CISL denounces it in a note. According to the reconstruction of the union reported by the worker, the man, at the request to show the document necessary to be able to get on the airplane, would have lost his temper by hurling at her. Immediate intervention by the Forces of Order: due to the fall, head trauma, eight-day prognosis. You understand that we have a great responsibility, because then there are people who dump on others their own violence, their own resentment and resentment, personal failures. So, we have the responsible to say yes: yes to the vaccine to save lives, yes to the green pass to resume normal activity. Mrs Rizzotti and Mr Mallegni have said well: we extend the vaccination obligation, we also extend the green pass to public works and private workers. Forza Italia will vote positively yes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u122	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, if there is a denominator that has united most of the previous speeches, including those in general discussion, I believe that it is a significant tendency to polarise positions; as my parent Massimiliano Romeo said very effectively this morning, to create typhoseries: who is pro and who is against, as if this were a football match. It is a bit the vice that has the Italian policy of deploying, however and in any case, someone against someone else. This is a mistake because once again - and we have heard it in previous speeches - we are going to mix elements that cannot be superimposed directly. In this particular case, today we are voting for a measure that concerns the green pass, not the choice to vaccinate Italians, which is something else; yet, everything in the end is synthesized if you are in favour or against vaccination. Let's stop opposing people: we were among the first to believe that even our country had to engage with its own policy and strategy in going to the home to make vaccines, not depending on the choices of productions made abroad by multinationals that then, as we have seen - maybe we have a short memory, but we must remember it - had even led Germany to take advantage with quotients and quantities far greater than those of other countries. Yet, these things are no longer spoken of, and instead we are talking today about the green pass, a mechanism that must not be of discrimination between people, but must allow anyone to be sure that, when he has that instrument at his disposal, he is not immune from the infection, but certainly has in front of him an additional barrier compared to the circulation of the virus, because he has vaccinated himself, because he has contracted the infection and is cured or because, following the swab, he has verified that he is not infected with it. All this has escaped even from our debate, reaching to polarize the issue with who is pro and who is against the vaccine: nothing more wrong. [[Applause]] All the more so because at this moment we are not even talking about the merit of the measure, because we are making explanations of vote on the confidence that the Government has imposed on the measure, resolving any discussion and - I say this with regret - preventing the approval of some useful agenda that would give political direction to the Government, perhaps committing it to give explanations to the citizens. You see, Mr President, there is an issue that tends to escape the debate, that of explaining, convincing, that of making an understanding of the goodness of the choices made. In the specific case, moving on to the specific question of the green pass, this is perceived in the end as a surreptitious instrument to impose a vaccination obligation that, in the reality of the facts, does not exist by law at the present time. We must get to make sure that the green pass, on the part of our fellow citizens, is seen as a useful and sensible tool, that overcomes some undoubted contradictions that had been created with the first implementation such as the one between those who get on a bus and the worker who drives that bus or between those who go to a restaurant and those who work in that restaurant. It is clear that all this produces confusion and we are here to tell the Government once again to do things with common sense, because we participate in this group of government to give the Italians solutions of common sense, not to create confusion. Moving deliberately on the issue of the vaccine, which has just been touched by other colleagues, I would add that the government must explain the usefulness of the vaccination system, the usefulness of facing the pandemic through the vaccine, overcoming even those contradictions that did not come first from politics, but that came from the world of information, which led on television thefts of pseudoscientists to say everything and the opposite of everything, until they got to create confusion in our fellow citizens. We do not let the Italians pass as terraplattists and as no vax, because from those extreme fringes, from which we all want to keep well away, we must also distinguish those who have not had information. In fact, Mr President, except for some commercials with some sportsman or with some well-known TV face, we have not heard any convincing information to tell our fellow citizens to trust the mechanism created to protect the Italians from infection. There needs to be a commitment to explain things. We live in a season in which responsibility seems to evaporate, so the acts are taken almost as acts of faith. I listened first to the speech of my colleague Errani, who seemed to be in church preaching, except that it is of vetero-communist extraction, because he did only acts of faith. Well, I was taught at school - but I think some of you remember it as I do - that science nourishes of doubts, doesn't put exclamation points, but question marks and questions constantly. [[Applause]] Those who today claim acts of faith, because Minister Hope has said so, frankly put on the wrong path even the strongest hope of our fellow citizens. Mr President, we need to know that the government, through the green pass, will give a further push to reduce the risk of infection in our country, but that in parallel there will be a strong action of communication and correct information on what is the value of the vaccination system and the system that, through the green pass, prevents the proliferation of the infection. The acts of faith are obviously left to religions and to those who profess and certainly not to the environment of science. I don't envy anyone who doubts doesn't have any and who comes in here to say: "Things must be done in this way because it is so." If all things were so certain - God's goodness - we would not have had all the uncertainties that have been there so far. We all remember, for example, that Astrazeneca was to be administered up to a certain age, then a different age was indicated, then it was removed from the trade, with attached and connected. We can't forget these things. If today some of our fellow citizens are confused and still have no confidence that the pandemic infection will be managed through the vaccination mechanism, of which we are all convinced, we must ask ourselves a question and give answers that are not to be escaped but given, once again, with common sense. The application of the green pass must be made with common sense. We do not need acts of authority, but authority. [[Applause]] If there is no authority, whatever measures the government should choose in the future will certainly find distrust and contrast from a part of our fellow citizens who, however minority they may be, we have a duty to consider, respect, listen and understand and make understand. I am sorry, Mr President, that this drift is leading a little to distinguish between good and bad. I have also heard some television debate in which we have even come to distinguish between those who have the green pass because they are vaccinated and those who have the green pass because they have done the buffer, claiming that the first ones are good and the second ones instead are doubts betting on health. It's not the right method. This system, which was adopted a few months ago, by giving a favourable opinion to the European Union, must not discriminate, but must be based essentially on common sense. I am very happy that to take charge of bringing these words to the Government there is undersecretary Sileri, who - allow me the joke - does not write books, but undertakes to give information. You see, Mr Undersecretary, you must explain to your main interlocutor, namely the Minister of Health, that we need the national health authorities to clarify certain points that have remained nebulous. There are still no protocols that explain well how you should treat yourself when you contract the disease and stay at home. These things need to be clarified, otherwise confusion is created. And maybe someone fits into this confusion, doing a bit like the snake potion vendors in the Far West in 1800; we don't need these people, we don't need an empty space filled by these subjects. It is the Government's responsibility to explain to our fellow citizens and to provide elements to convince them that the actions put in place are aimed at safeguarding the health of our fellow citizens and not at forcing and reducing their rights. Let us not forget that we have a duty to represent the rights of everyone, not just those who belong to one side or another, because if we divide ourselves also in the fight against the virus, distinguishing between those who are vaccinated and those who are not, we make a huge mistake. This is a battle that we'll all win together or lose together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u125	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we have made important choices, always aware, looking at the data and following the scientific method. We have done everything we can to put an end to this health drama as soon as possible, which has become an economic and social drama. We have fought and are fighting against a virus that is still largely unknown, a virus that has to date taken away 4 and a half million people in the world, of which 7,000 were health workers, dead saving the lives of others. We have asked our citizens and our health workers for unfailing sacrifices. Yesterday, with my colleague Danila De Lucia, here in the Senate we presented a book, entitled "I swear not to forget" and that collects the stories of 28 doctors who worked in the Covid departments during the pandemic. Some of these stories were funny. For example, there was a doctor who said, You call us heroes, but we don't want to be called heroes. I sure would like to be a superhero, but my favorite superhero is Batman and so there would be a conflict of interest with bats. In many of these stories, however, there was a common thread that struck me: the loneliness, not only that of the patients admitted to the Covid wards, isolated from their own affections, but also that of the health personnel, who felt abandoned by the institutions, without means, without protective devices and without training. And when, through these stories, they try to convey what one lived and what one lives in those departments, one has plastically as the feeling of feeling underwater, in a muffled environment, in which the health workers themselves cannot communicate with those around him and where it is difficult even to listen to the sick, who are extremely lonely. Then there is the loneliness of all the other patients, of the patients not for Covid, for example of the cancer patients, to whom we have not allowed access to treatment and diagnosis. Someone before me remembered how the diagnosis and deaths from cancer are on the rise. Today, however, we are in a totally different condition, we are not at the same point and we owe it to science that, in a record time, has found a vaccine. However, we must do everything we can to avoid falling back into that nightmare and not making all the sacrifices that we have all made useless: the citizens, the young people who have been robbed of the future and the health workers. Our goals must continue to be the same, that is to save lives, relax the pressure on hospitals and restart the economy. In fact, we have understood that there is a very strong synergy between health and economics, and perhaps in this House too we should focus on this, as happened in 1978, when Parliament passed almost unanimously three laws that changed our society and put Italy at the forefront of social and health care. I am referring to the establishment of the National Health Service, the reform of psychiatric care and the rules that allowed abortion. Thanks to these laws, adopted that year, we implemented Article 32 of the Constitution, which protects the fundamental right to health, the same article that protected all of us in this pandemic. [[Applause]] Those laws were also born from a great social ferment, different ideas and positions, but all convergent in a precise direction that aimed to enhance the freedom and rights of people, but at the same time asking the State for more protection in health and health protection, in the conviction that health and disease are biological phenomena, but that they also become social and that making health or disease prevail depends on our political choices. Senator Candiani, this is about the need not to create typhoseries, but to give clear and decisive answers in this House. [[Applause]] Are we for or against the vaccine? I'm glad Senator Zaffini made it clear, because a few days ago an excellent candidate said he was vaccinated, but he didn't recommend it. Are we in favour or do we think the swabs are useless? Do we call doctors heroes or question the therapeutic choices they have made, hosting here in the Senate conferences that go in that direction? [[Applause]] Just make politics on the people's skin and just try to keep your foot in two shoes. [[Applause]] We are all tired: the citizens, doctors, health workers and our young people who do not want to go back to teaching at a distance. We all want to be out of this nightmare, but we have to deal with the data, as Undersecretary Sileri said very well this morning. We have to deal with a virus that still circulates, with the variants that are more aggressive than the original form and with the 130,000 deaths we had in Italy. 130,000 are the inhabitants of Giugliano, where I live, which is the municipality not the most populous capital of Italy and it is as if it had been razed to the ground by this pandemic. We must consider that at least 10% of the Italian population consists of children and young people who cannot be vaccinated and that, therefore, we must protect and protect with our choice of vaccination. [[Applause]] We therefore need a sense of responsibility and community to reduce the health risk and to allow economic recovery. This serves the green pass that is a passport and, as such, Senator Zaffini, cannot be voluntary because it would lose its value. It is a passport that certainly is not enough, but it helps to protect us and take back our lives. We at Movimento 5 Stars have worked hard to make this measure more functional and more efficient, extending the duration of the green pass from nine to twelve months, including salivary tests among those who give access to green certification, contrasting the isolation of patients admitted, allowing family members to access health facilities. This pandemic has taught us that individualism does not pay, especially when it comes to common goods, such as health, which, if not distributed, make everyone less protected. The citizens must also come to this conviction, but they need instruments of reflection that we must provide. Above all, there is transparency among these instruments. I agree with those who said that we need to give clear, precise and transparent information, because if there is no transparency there are plots and prejudices. From transparency comes participation: citizens must not be passive users, but protagonists of services. Finally, the third instrument is the conviction of the sacredness of common goods, such as health. We understand how much public health and public health are worth. These three instruments (transparency, participation, sacredness of common goods) become three values on which to build a new society, fairer, fairer, more fraternal. I remember the words of Pope Francis in that piazza San Pietro rainy and deserted when he said that we cannot expect to remain healthy in a sick world. A few months later, the economists gathered in Cernobbio asked for an economy that was an expression of the cure, putting the common goods at the centre. This is what we are asking for today: the protection of health as a common good. This country has a great desire to start again; this is demonstrated by our young people, by scientists with their discoveries; this has been demonstrated by our athletes, with their victories. We are a great country and we must continue to write a great story, putting aside plottism, fanaticism, hatred and finally working together for the common good. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u127	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u128	Mr Paragon (Misto-I-PVU). Mr President, I shall be clear: I do not think so at all. Your green pass is a hypocritical and petty act - other than proof of freedom! - like the humiliation which you force Parliament to do. In your options of choice there is your infinite idea of freedom: freedom is in Britain, Denmark and Sweden, where they have broken the curse of an emergency state, which you stand to break the rule of law. What happened to the free tampons, the salivary tampons? With the support of Federfarma you want to bring pain and discrimination to people. You're pushing the state vaccine and the green pass is the alibi. I hope at least Big Pharma is repaying you well for such trouble. When we told you that the masks made by FCA for the Presidency of the Council were fallacious and smelled you called us no mask; now you are forced to withdraw them. Don't worry, the moms have already done it before you; those moms who today defend their children from your angeries; those moms and those dads who do not give the opportunity to go to take their children to kindergarten without your pass. Today in this House I pay tribute to the thousands of free women and men marching together to defend their ideas. I salute those marches, in defense of Article 32 of the Constitution, so under no circumstances can the law violate the limits imposed by respect for the human person. We march in defense of the freedom to manifest our dissident thinking. We march in defense of the work and workers, which you are discriminating barbarically. You want to impose the state vaccine with the clean face of those who offer a choice, but that is not a choice, because your swabs are paid, many are painful and with the shorter expiry date of the whole milk. The green pass doesn't immunize. Vaccinated infects without knowing it. The green pass discriminates under the law and those who promote discrimination are a criminal, like this Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u129	Senator Paragon, I recommend the terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u131	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u132	GRANATO (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, seventy-three years of democracy are being wiped out by decrees. That's the truth. Today we are yet another vote of confidence on a seriously unconstitutional measure, carried out by this majority, which supports a technical government, of heterodirect persons, who are pursuing a policy that does not meet the national interest and the protection of collective health. This measure, as we have shown amply, goes exclusively in the direction of protecting the interests of some multinational drug companies, which have produced drugs that are currently only authorised in a conditional manner; nevertheless, despite all the adverse events that cause, as the only free solution to work, in order to exercise their constitutional rights, mobility, in order to exercise their legitimate interests in the cultural and sports fields. People, in order to enjoy their constitutional rights, must, in short, expose themselves to the many adverse events that these drugs unfortunately produce. This is a very serious matter, for which this Parliament and this Government will have to take responsibility, just as they will have to take responsibility for all the people who are dying or suffering the very serious side effects that no one ever talks about. Undersecretary Sileri is rightly silent, but this majority will have to assume this very serious responsibility. I really have nothing else to say but that we will vote firmly against, because this government deserves nothing. He deserves only to be hunted and tried! [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u133	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u134	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2382, of conversion to law, with amendments, of the decree-law 23 July 2021, n. 105, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will vote from his own place, declaring his own vote. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Sileri is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Sileri. PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the President took office at 6 p.m.) I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of bill n. 2382, of conversion into law, with amendments, of decree-law n. 105 of 23 July 2021, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 224 Senators voting 223 Majority 111 Favorable 189 Contrars 32 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 105 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u135	He asked to speak to President Ostellari to report on the work of the 2nd Standing Committee on Draft Law Nos. 1662 and 311. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u136	Mr President, as you already know, the work on the draft delegation law on the civil process has ended in the Commission, but we need a further period of time, because the work has been complex, and we also need to wait for the drafting to complete the text which will then be presented here in this House, so I ask you to be able to assume that you will start the debate tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u137	In the light of this request, I propose that we finish today the work of the Assembly, which will resume tomorrow, from 9.30 a.m., according to the agenda already established, that is, with the discussion of the bill of delegation to the Government for the efficiency of the civil process and for the revision of the discipline of the instruments of alternative resolution of disputes. As no comments are made, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u140	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, I would like to begin by reminding you that two days ago the thirty-ninth anniversary of the adoption of the Rognoni-La Torre law, which, as is well known, introduced into the penal code the case of the Mafia-style associative crime and typed it, prompting a great acceleration in the contrast to the mafias. I remember with pleasure his inspirer, Pio La Torre, who paid with his life his political and union commitment, because he was cowardly killed by the mafia together with his driver Rosario Di Salvo. Today, however, there is the twenty-eightth anniversary of another tragic event, the martyrdom - I do not use this term at random - of Fr Pino Puglisi, killed by a hit man of ours on 15 September 1993 in Palermo. I would like to remind you on behalf of the Five Star Movement and, if you will allow me, Mr President, on behalf of the Senate. Don Pino Puglisi was parish priest of the church of San Gaetano, in the Brancaccio district, controlled by Bagarella and the Graviano brothers. He was a brave priest, one of those we call frontier, who make real social anti-mafia every day in the parish or in the squares and streets considered by the Mafia what they did. To counter the Mafia and its message of death and oppression, it used smile, welcome, solidarity and culture. He wanted to affirm a principle that in Palermo of those years could seem utopian and that is that good, in the long run, could have the upper hand on evil and therefore on the mafia. He welcomed the boys into his parish, those boys who perhaps considered the mobsters as idols or deserving of respect. He welcomed these young people and made them study, play and socialize, gave them a different possibility and vision of things and taught them that respect can be obtained without being mafia and without using violence. Don Pino taught them life and legality and gave them the opportunity to choose what to do with their own existence, with awareness. Thanks to his work, Fr Puglisi managed to tear many boys and children off the street, who without his example, probably, would have been involved in crime and would, unfortunately, become meat for slaughter. He represented the good, as opposed to the evil of the Mafia, and his example was so beautiful and revolutionary, so contagious, that he was expanding with oil, involving more and more citizens. He knew he was at gunpoint, but he didn't stop, nor frightened and continued in his work. In fact, at times, in his homilies he addressed the mobsters with courage. Mr President, I shall conclude. He had received so many threats from ours, that in his aberrant logic he could not bear that someone would remove maneuvering to his criminal activities, nor that there was an oasis of legality and hope in what he considered his territory. His life ended on September 15, 1993, on his fifty-sixth birthday. One of the killers confessed that, as he approached his victim, Don Pino immediately understood, smiled at him and said: I expected it. Don Puglisi was right; the Blessed of the church was right: Brancaccio has changed forever since then. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u141	Senator Pilgrims, obviously the Senate Assembly joins this memory, of great civil value.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u144	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 'common good water': we have heard this phrase for years, a slogan that summarises the strong connection between the right to water and the Constitution, on which our democracy is based. Despite the referendum, voted by the citizens, all this is still undesired, yet we are experiencing the most serious climate crisis on our planet, a real crisis, if we think of the summer we have just experienced, which has been the hottest ever. Water is fundamental for the survival of the human species and that is why I cannot ignore the group of citizens who have been permanently guarding an area of Umbria for weeks, that of the fountain Rocchetta in Gualdo Tadino. It is a place once lived by citizens, defaced by building abuse and rendered inaccessible by those who operate in the area, despite the decision of the Council of State to restore the source and the area itself. The site in question is a collective property, a property with inalienable and indivisible rights, whose use cannot be modified for any reason without the participation of the same Agricultural Community. 11 judgments of the Council of State and years of investigation have served no purpose: the Gualdese citizens are once again forced to demonstrate, in order to defend a collective good that is not only theirs but also the citizens of Umbria. Local politics ignores not only the decisions of the Council of State, but also the prefect, who asks to include the Agricultural Community among the parties involved in the decisions. The future is at stake not only for a community, but for everyone. The time has come to find a solution to the matter and to listen, after years of abuse, to the demands of a group of citizens who only ask for more respect for the individual, for the environment and for the law. It is a necessary act, in order to defend the rights of the Gualdo citizens and of the whole of Umbria, as well as to protect the environment and our most precious asset: water. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u147	PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the problem of municipal secretaries, who play a very important role as advisers to the mayor and to the administration, and although the laws have changed, they are a fundamental pawn of the functioning of the municipalities. There are secretaries who lend their work in many municipalities and someone gets to real records, with 15 or 16 municipalities. It is difficult to maintain this structure when office retirements occur at sixty-five years of age, because there is a class of secretaries who had been hired on time, and then there were other hirings but very sparse and, in the absence of competitions, the deficiency is absolute. I know of situations in the Province of Cuneo where there are mayors who do not know how to proceed. A rule contained in Decree-Law No 162 of 2019, Article 16-b, paragraphs 9 and 10, allows the mayor, through certain formalities, to entrust the post of deputy secretary to an official who has the qualifications, that is, both of category D and has the degree, but in the municipalities up to 5.000 inhabitants, or in the case of municipalities that have concluded agreements between them that do not exceed 10.000 inhabitants for the office of secretariat, after authorization of the Ministry of the Interior. I don't want to, Mr. President, but you're on horseback. Expensed this attempt, in the absence of these figures there would be half a solution for twelve or twenty-four months. In my opinion, from experience, having heard so many mayors, this system is not workable. I therefore make a proposal and I would ask you, Mr President, to take it to the Minister of the Interior, who is a prefect and knows the situation, because once the secretaries depended, indeed in some ways still depend on the Ministry of the Interior. In other words, I propose that the secretaries who have been put in quiescence in recent times may still continue to be in office for one year, if they become available, so that the time is covered before the registration and implementation of the competition concluded in June and before the qualified secretaries have completed the refresher course for the period of one year. I do not know how the Minister of the Interior can operate, but I would like to have confidence in the fate of an amendment to be tabled in a forthcoming measure. I tend to think that budgetary law is a long way ahead and, above all, the amendments in this period are short-lived. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to make this proposal to the Minister for the Interior. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u148	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-359.ana.u149	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 16 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.33 p.m.
