ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2101, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would ask the President of the first standing Commission, Senator Parrini, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u5	Mr President, in the first Commission we were given the measure yesterday, in which we held the general debate. At the end of the deadline for tabling amendments, 144 were tabled, plus 44 agendas. We met again this morning and were able to examine the agenda. I must say that it is impossible to complete the examination of the measure by voting on the amendments, even in the absence of the Commission's opinions on the amendments themselves. This is the state of affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Parrini's report, bill No 2101, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u7	Mr President, I listened to the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Parrini, who briefly told us that he was unable to close the work of the thousand-pronged decree in the Commission and, therefore, told you, Mr President, that it was not possible to assign the mandate to the rapporteur in this House. This is the frame of reference for the first act of the Dragons Government that I want to enclose with a very simple sentence: everything needs to change so that nothing changes. President, I say this because we were hoping that the new Government would change this modus operandi, which has been in force for almost three years now and which is involved in the adoption of such important measures always and only one House, without the other, in this case the Upper House, the Senate, being able to affect anything compared to the provision that, I repeat, is very important because we are talking about the thousand-pronge. Even though the measure was incardinated this morning, it was not even possible to give an opinion in the Budget Committee because there was not even time to see the 144 amendments that Mr Parrini has just mentioned. We hoped in a change of pace and that things could change, if only because, having changed the balance of this Assembly, as everyone knows, the only opposition party is Brothers of Italy, who has the need and the right to intervene on crucial measures. We have been clearly told no. We will not even be able to read the act that has been fired in the House in recent days and you will once again ask for yet another vote of confidence from the House. We are waiting for the new decree of restaurateurs, which is very late. For two months Italian companies and families have been waiting for the decree ristori 5, which still does not see the light. Thanks to your quarrels in the majority, with particular reference to Senator Renzi, and to the crisis of government we will have thousands of companies and millions of workers in serious difficulty. We of Brothers of Italy, before the decree of restaurateurs is approved, that we hope it will see the light as soon as possible and that it will be the first real act of the Government Draghi, because today's decree is an appendix of the old Government Count, we hope that there will be a change of pace and a complete change of philosophy regarding the measures to be approved. We said: Enough with the bonuses, compensations and prebende that have been given in this last year through the approved economic decrees. We also said, no more ATECO codes. These choices have brought to their knees, as I said before, the Italian companies that can no longer survive. President, we will endeavour, as we have always done with previous governments, to enable the Government to assess our proposals, hoping that at least they will be heard by the new Dragon Government. Our proposals are the same as we have been repeating for a year. The main proposal that will be made with respect to the decree that we expect will be approved by the Council of Ministers is that the Restorations and the Ateco Codes should be deleted, in order to give companies the opportunity to have grants that can cover their fixed costs, which are the real problem for each of them. Similarly, the reopening of the terms for the dismantling of the debitory folders does not mean a new pardon, as someone wants to make believe. We already know, Mr President, that in a few days' time, on Sunday 28 February, the deadline which allows the Revenue Agency to start 50 million acts and records against Italian taxpayers, which are not in a position to pay them, will expire. We also propose what has already been proposed in the previous economic measures, namely a new balance and withdrawal and a sort of peace, understood not as a pardon, but as a white year, which can allow companies to breathe after this first year of pandemic and economic crisis. In conclusion, Mr President, I really hope that, for the good of the Italians, there will be at least the possibility that this new Government, which has been installed for a few days, will be able to listen to the proposals that will come from these benches, from those who represent the only opposition to this Government, which sees all the other parties in the constitutional arc gathered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u8	Senator Corrado is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u9	Mr President, I do not know whether the so-called thousandprorogation decree really contains a thousand speeches or whether there are many more or many fewer. Of course, some are of great timing, others are simpler, even micro-sectoral in some cases. I comment only one and draw it from the voice "Culture and show." 2017 was the Ovidian year: that is, the two thousand years since the death of the Latin poet Publio Ovidio Nasone, native to Sulmona, author of the famous "Metamorphosis" (Metamorphosis). The so-called Ovid law, namely Law No 226 of 2017, which established the committee promoter and the scientific committee, is dated 29 December 2017; it took February 2018 to enter into force, while its regulation had to wait for April 2019 to be ready and, then, the end of July to have the consent of the President of the Republic and the publication in the Official Journal. At that point, the twenty days required for the presentation of projects, which are of various nature, involve more Municipalities, not only Sulmona, and involve a twinning with Rome. Mr President, I am referring to this matter - and my friends in Abruzzo do not want it - because I still think it is emblematic. I am referring to the fact that the thousand-pronged decree provides for the extension, until 31 December of this year, of a year, of the term for the realization of the planned works and also for the vitality of the committee itself. From the point of view of the relative charges, equal to 350,000 euros for 2021, I read in the decree-law that will be provided through a reduction of the authorization of expenditure for the operation of the institutions pertaining to the museum sector. Basically, we draw on the EUR 10 million that MIBACT spends on museums each year. The Ovid law originally provided, instead, for 2017 and 2018, that it was the years initially counted, 350,000 plus 350,000 euros, therefore 700,000 euros, to be reported by 2019, to be derived, in this case, from the reduction of expenditure for the operation of institutions pertaining to the field of libraries and archives and autonomous central institutions of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the museums will now be stripped, just as two years ago the libraries and archives were supposed to be stripped. Then I reflect on how we are disgusting and how miserable a country is that takes the bread out of its archives, its libraries and its museums to finance an initiative that is certainly commendable, such as the Ovidian celebrations, but that in my opinion should be financed with other resources, not subtracting them from institutions that today are all in conditions of serious scarcity of resources, so much so that they cannot guarantee the openings to the public. This means making the wedding with dried figs, as they say: I am referring to a will that is political will, when we talk about culture in this country, to appear prodigal only for propaganda reasons, de facto deceiving the national community, selling smoke, while it is slowly dying of inedia precisely what with the money of all should be preserved and put in a position to acquire other value, while at the same time ensuring the increase of knowledge and therefore the intellectual and spiritual progress of the citizens, to which the article 9 of the Constitution aims. How scumbag we are, President, and I repeat that. How miserable is a country that removes the bread from the archives, libraries and museums and then, pilatescally, commends the volunteers who make up for gaps caused by the refusal of the State to put resources where there is need, at the same time when it finances largely television appearances, it gives to the private its treasures without a reasonable public advantage, it wastes huge resources for the so-called bonus culture, arrived in the fifth year without a real monitoring, as noted by the Council of State, in order to transform the cultural sites into a park entrusted to poorly trained minstrels. I leave you with this reflection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u10	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u11	[[Brusio]] I would invite colleagues to a minor buzz, if that is possible; I do not want to say more attention, but at least to disturb less those who speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u12	Mr President, the thousand-pronged decree has long become an omnibus decree, within which problems of the most diverse species can be found. As far as I'm concerned, however, I want to focus on the great issue of health, which undoubtedly represents in this legislature, certainly in this third part of the legislature with the Government Dragons, one of the preferential axes to which should be devoted, also through the instrument of thousandprorogations, the greatest possible attentions. There is no doubt in fact that, if it is true that the other nerve point that wounds our country at this moment is the economic question, it is also true that the economic question requires as condition sine qua non that it is not addressed and managed, in the best possible way, the health issue that at this moment, in turn, takes on a particularly clear dimension. I am referring to the so-called vaccination plan and, therefore, to how to guarantee all Italians at least on a preventive basis, since we do not yet have adequate medicinal products to treat the pandemics in which we are fully immersed. Our only resource remains entrusted to an intelligent vaccination plan, which can be at the same time a source of certainty for the quality of health, but also a source of justice for the timing with which these vaccination processes will be addressed. Part of this aspect of the justice of the vaccination plan also requires careful clarification of which categories are entitled to be vaccinated before others. The basic problem is obviously the recruitment of staff, the definition of spaces, the selection of models and the type of vaccines that will be prepared. The thousand-pronged decree, from this point of view, does not address this issue in a central way: it is not its problem, because its aim is to extend it. The problem, however, in this case, concerns, for example, health workers, compared to whom I would like to identify at least three points on which, honestly, more and better could have been done. A first point concerns the precariousness of health workers. Much has been done, and never has been done, as on this occasion proclamations have been launched, including television, for a call to the arms of doctors and nurses, to offer to collaborate, in this pandemic situation, which has caused about 100,000 deaths, which are certainly not few, since they are equivalent to the disappearance of a medium-sized city. This call, addressed to the health care staff, involved in part people who had retired, in part free professionals, but in part also very young doctors. For the first time, a sort of contractization of residents has been done, so that already in the last years of their specialization they could put themselves into play, through a legal formula that is not only that of the scholarship, but of the contract of employment. In essence, there is a sort of promise that, at the end of the studies related to specialization, binds to the prospect of a real contract. Well, the thousand-pronged decree confines itself to giving continuity to precariousness and, on the one hand, offers no room for those who have let themselves be involved in this operation of generosity, which - let us not forget - in some way endangers life and, on the other hand, speaks to residents, who, when accepting the contract with the hospital or with the structure in which they are located, in a certain sense strengthen the specific competence linked to what they are doing at that time, but compromise the competence projected forward, which is that of their formation. I make a trivial example: if for example a resident is very good at an ultrasound, the interest of the structure will be that he continues to do ultrasounds and that he does so many, because he does them quickly and precisely, and so he will become a specialized technician. On the other hand, it is precisely the specialist who has before him the prospect of a 360 degree training. The choice to give a reductive consistency, even more secure, to its competence, is a renunciation to which, perhaps, the younger does not pay enough attention, because it does not realize that it is actually putting a mortgage on its formation. This, to mention a few examples, but the decree-law is limited exclusively to formalizing this process. I want to mention another aspect, which always concerns the issues I try to deal with, also in order to try to achieve a greater competence and therefore overcome the hiatus that has crushed us all in this period, namely the stratospheric division between technicians and politicians, where technicians are the competent and politicians are the incompetent, in the effort to ensure that competence matures also in the context of sensitivity and political activity. So I want to talk about research. Among the many things that we find in the decree milleproroghe, there is an extension sine die, which places, again in this case, a very strong mortgage on scientific research. We all know that, in the field of scientific research, one of the crucial issues is that of the animal model. We also know that, compared to the animal model, some prejudices are very strong, which concern the composite universe of the so-called animalists. The sensitivity of anyone doing clinical research wants that at some point the animal model must necessarily intervene in the process of research, once without prejudice to a series of characteristics that we all know very well, that is to say that we use the least possible number of animals, that we do not impose unnecessary suffering on animals, that we have a clear design, so the results that will come from that experimentation are strictly functional to the design of the research that is being done. These are principles that the National Committee of Bioethics has set out and reiterated many times. There comes a time when the passage for the animal model is binding before it can pass to the human model, that is to man. On this point too, the milleproroghe simply makes an extension without solving a fundamental problem, which, moreover, constitutes an important discrimination between Italian researchers and researchers from other countries. Italy, in some situations, must make use of reference frameworks, so our country is penalized compared to the foreign country, also because we ideologies assume a remarkable body, a media invasion, an ability to impose on the part of the few many of the choices that are widely questionable. Private scientific research, however, for example, with a view to conducting a drawing to the end, fails to give reason for the results it achieves. In this context, once again, the bill, in order not to displease some, does not guarantee others from the point of view of what, today as today, we could frankly define the profile of vaccines. We would not have had vaccines if there had not been animal research models and animal use in this respect. In conclusion, I would just like to say that to understand the milleproroghe exclusively as a regulatory model that allows us to move one practice from one table to another, that is to extend it, especially in this nascent phase of a Government that would like to be in the name of rigour and competence, which would like to make science the nodal point that directs the work of the Technical and Scientific Committee, is truly a vulnus and a sign of weakness that establishes a permanent fragility that we would like to end once and for all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u13	Mr President, I shall try to divide my speech into two parts. The first part will be dedicated to the theme of justice, the second part will be dedicated to the theme of the family. When the government listens, I will continue my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u14	The government is intent on listening to Senator Pillon's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u15	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). The situation of justice, gentlemen of the government, has unfortunately highlighted, in recent months of lockdown, damage and structural problems that have been afflicting our system for some time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, you have given up your speech, but you cannot replace it with a long conversation with the government. Please, Senator Pillon. PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, President. I do not think it is confidential news that today in our country there are unfortunately courts in chaos, cases postponed from year to year, protocols with leopard stain that make the administration of justice different from city to city, from Region to Region, from district of court of appeal to district of court of appeal. All this, Minister, in a situation of chronic lack of efficiency and immediacy. Unfortunately, in this last year and a half, the League has been constantly reporting and denouncing these problems. This report and complaint was not - alas - heard. I am therefore very pleased to learn that, at least at a time of reversal of course - and this is certainly significant - the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also adopted a motion in the Senate this morning, which in fact places the emphasis on the iniquity of the reform of the statute of limitations. The issue is what the House of Deputies has already voted in favour of: the current legislation in force, as a result of the so-called Bonafede reform, has actually created a vulnus in Article 111 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, since the limit of the criminal process is in compliance with its reasonable duration (also because, as we read, all this is reflected in the re-educational effectiveness of the sentence, which otherwise risks seeing the nullification of the provisions of Article 27 of our Constitutional Charter). However, there is one more aspect to which I would like to draw your attention, concerning civil justice. We were all very happy to hear the President-in-Office of the Council, when he spoke on trust, mention among the government's objectives also that of reforming the civil process. We have a situation of unacceptable times and unsustainable arrears, but the risk is to face the umpteenth reform that remains a dead letter. I do not know if anyone has recently had the adventure of attempting a role-playing enrollment in the telematic civil trial at the Court of Cassation, which should already be active on paper. In fact, each of you can find out that it is not yet active and that to file an appeal for Cassation you still have to proceed with the healthy old photocopy and the healthy old delivery of the paper file, despite the fact that since 1 January last the use of the tool of the telematic civil process. If the reforms are done at zero cost then they can not start and therefore you understand well that it is perfectly useless to adopt them. I stop here, even though I could go further by talking about the situation of juvenile justice, which is actually paralyzed since the lockdown, as well as minors who are placed out of the family and have not been able to meet their parents for a year. We could also talk about the situation of the children of separate families, also kept away from their parents because of the judicial situation and lockdown. I hope that this will become an opportunity for resistance and courageous reform. Please don't do the cocky reforms or at all costs, or - worse yet - at no cost. This is the first part of my speech. As I have already mentioned, I would like to devote the second part of the intervention to the situation of Italian families, who are actually at the forefront of fighting the pandemic and the economic crisis today. In the front line it means that parents have to divide between the work and the care of their children, fight and fight with distance teaching, as well as find effective ways to manage their children because in many regions and provinces the kindergartens have also been closed. Families therefore manage an increasingly tiring everyday life and all without any kind of real support and, above all, structural policy for the family. In Italy there are over 20 million families, who are the economic and social nerve of the country and the community that builds the social estate of our country and are attacked by three sides. The frontal attack is certainly given by the pandemic situation, but the long-standing frontal attack is the fiscal one, so today the family loads are in no way recognized by our tax system and the families are burdened from the fiscal point of view and in the impossibility to carry out those same activities that even the Constitution imposes on them. Parents, by Constitution, dear colleagues, have the right and the duty to maintain, educate and educate the offspring; however, if the State, which obliges them to do so, on the other hand takes away their resources to do so, with a voracious tax that does not recognize family burdens, we are faced with a genuine violation of constitutional principles. That is why we are convinced that the single cheque policy, which is a first way of dealing with this situation, is not enough. We call for the family issue to be strongly placed from a fiscal, economic and even ideological point of view; we can no longer bear ideological attacks on the family. Family is not parent 1 and parent 2; family is mother, grandparents, father, uncles, cousins, children [[Applause]] These are the reports that we intend to protect.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u16	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u17	Mr President, I am addressing President Draghi through Minister D'Incà. While we speak in this general discussion and examine the decree-law thousandprorogates (I really do not like this term), in the course of the year we will have 15,000 less companies and I refer to the complaint made by Confcommercio just in the past few hours. I'm talking about 15,000 less commercial companies, thousands fewer professionals, thousands of companies that won't open shutters. This is the climate in which we are debating. This is the climate in which we are about to vote on yet another decree-law that represents - and it is not the fault of President Draghi, at least so far - yet another affront to Parliament and above all to the Senate, because in a few hours or even a few minutes in the Commission we have had to examine the measure, which arrives in the Chamber and in a few hours it will have to be approved, but with a vote of confidence to which we will of course not lend ourselves. It is, therefore, another decree-law that represents an affront to Parliament and that, as the term itself says, extends instead of giving solutions, because the extensions are never an element of normal ordinaryity; they are and should be, like the decree-laws, exceptional elements of urgency temporarily circumscribed; instead, all these things that should be the exceptionality, unfortunately represent the ordinaryity. On the subject, Mr President, we would like to point out that there is a burning issue for the world of national economy: 50 million acts and records which, according to this thousand-pronged decree-law, are extended to 28 February. I would like to remind you that today is February 25th, so they are extended for three more days while we approve the measure under discussion and it is already said that it will be discussed in the next decree-law of imminent enactment, the so-called ristori-d. I hope that the government will understand in this regard that there is certainly a need for an extraordinary installment of the files; it is not conceivable that there is a day when suddenly millions of folders can be sent to taxpayers and those taxpayers, who have not been able to pay them in the past year, suddenly heal and can pay them all perhaps on 30 March, 30 April, 30 June. We need to be clear, not a thousand times longer; we need concrete answers and extraordinary installments. I am thinking, for example, of the instalments that expired during 2020: let us start from the dies a quo. We cannot charge four, five or six monthly folders due during 2020, all March 30 or April 30. We need clarity on these concepts. In the meantime, the Revenue Agency applies candidly to the suffering undertaking, saying that in the Three-Year Plan there are 14 billion recovery in 2021, with 340,000 surveys for small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed workers in the three-year period 2021-2023. On these issues we await from President Draghi and the Government of the answers finally concrete because to wait for them is the productive fabric of the Country. President Draghi promised us, or at least he was in the expectations of many, the government of the best. As far as the names of most of the ministerial groups are concerned, we are unfortunately faced with a Conte-ter government. If it is not the Government of the best, we would like at least a Government that, through it, can give some better answer on the topics of the economy, on the topics that are unfortunately holding our country in suspense: the enterprises and - I repeat - the professionals, the traders and the craftsmen. We have tabled so many amendments as a force of constructive opposition, which expects cooperation from the Government. We have presented them on the subject of justice, of which Mr Balboni will speak specifically, on the subject of professionals, trying at least to anticipate a part of the bill presented by me with provisions for the suspension of the beginning of time limits relating to obligations on the freelancer in case of illness or accident. A draft law, signed and firmly supported by the consultative committee of accountants, which is now before the Justice Commission; we hope that the Government will give support and invite the Commission to do quickly because the professional world on the disease and accident can no longer wait. We have tabled amendments on this subject too, and we would like to have some answers. I will conclude, Mr President, by recalling quickly the subject of evictions on which we expected a response and finally ending the social role of social assistance that you have placed on the small property today. In addition, we expected answers other than a moratorium on drills, which will cost the country in the coming years almost 50 billion GDP and 11.5 billion less tax revenues. Your majority, Mr President, is unfortunately quarrelsome and is not changing pace with the previous government. We hope that you will want in the next few days, and not in the coming weeks, to make a significant change of pace and give the country that suffers an answer, which the aforementioned reference to the best necessarily requires. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss an old majority measure, but it is important to postpone the entry into force of some regulatory provisions and to extend the effectiveness of otherwise expired laws. The work has been done in the House and that in the Senate is only a passage because the provision is due. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a modus operandi that has always been contested, in particular by the League, and we hope that with the new Government, in the fullness of its powers, it will be overcome by a loyal and fruitful collaboration between the Groups. [[Applause]] I wish the entire government team and the undersecretaries who were appointed last night a good job. To get out of the health and economic crisis (I put the two aspects on the same level), it certainly needs a change of pace. In this thousand-pronged decree, which we have not been able to examine so much, so many extensions are necessary, for goodness sake, but so many measures are still too sectoral and little impact on the economy. On this one thousand-pronged decree, the League was able to make its contribution (to the House, of course), with some important amendments. I shall focus in particular on an amendment concerning Piedmont and, in particular, my territory. It is an amendment signed by the LEU Group, to which our regional secretary, Riccardo Molinari, has worked a great deal, as well as the honourable and group leader in the House. This amendment provides for the extension of the time limits for submitting observations against the provisions of the national charter of areas potentially suitable for hosting the national storage of radioactive waste. The terms go from sixty to one hundred and eighty days. It is an extension which has been loudly requested by the territories. I remember that in Piedmont (which already hosts sites for the storage of radioactive material, in Vercellese, in Saluggia and Trino and in Marengo wood in the Alessandrino) there are eight areas, identified between the province of Alessandria and that of Turin. The areas identified in Turin and Alexandrino show strong contraindications, because they are densely populated and close to important economic activities of an agricultural and food and wine type of absolute value. In particular, I refer, in my area, to Carmagnola, where a storage site has been located. On 17 January, I took part in the traditional celebration of St. Anthony the Abbot, which is the celebration of farmers. Carmagnola is an absolute excellence in agriculture for valuable products such as the pepper of Carmagnola, which must be protected as many Italian excellences in the food and wine sector. Returning to what we have to approve in this House today, we have chosen to go along this road together. Now we have the full government team. I therefore appeal to all my colleagues: let us try to work well and with common sense. So, he didn't win this or that party, but he won Italy and won the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u20	Mr President, this is the first measure on which the Brothers of Italy are consistently demonstrating the position expressed by confidence, that is, that of a patriotic, constructive and, therefore, collaborative opposition. This was also demonstrated here this morning when the Commission approved the agenda which commits the Government to consider extending the golden power for the year 2021 for the steel sector. In the liquidity decree, again on the initiative of Brothers of Italy, the Chamber had been extended the possibility of placing the golden power also to the steel sector, temporarily, until 31 December last year. Thus, this potentiality existed. A few days ago, the neominister for economic development, meeting the trade unions and institutional representatives in Taranto on steel and the protection of Ilva, had said that he would, if necessary, place the golden power to protect the plant. Evidently, the offices did not tell him that the instrument expired on 31 December. We have noticed, not being among the best but certainly not among the worst, and we have suggested to the government to put a buffer: if it wants to threaten the golden power, it is good that it has the tool to do so. We have therefore tabled an amendment which will not be adopted because you will be trusting. However, you have accepted our agenda to fill a gap: that of declaring a weapon that is no longer there. We hope that you will accept our amendment in the next measure. In the same collaborative spirit, I would like to point out to the Minister of Relations with Parliament that today's newspapers, and even the main Italian newspaper, in giving account of the delegation to intelligence given to Prefect Gabrielli, speak of a double position: in addition to the delegation to intelligence, he would have a position - it is not clear - as a security adviser. In the same spirit of cooperation as previously expressed, we would like to point out that the founding law explicitly prescribes that the person who has the delegation to intelligence by the President of the Council - a special delegation which does not even pass through the Council of Ministers - cannot have any other delegation and office within the Government; only in this case does the law prescribe that the delegation to intelligence is exclusive and requires that the person to whom it is conferred should have no other mandate. We say this in a collaborative spirit, because obviously the Italian newspapers and the...Corriere della sera are mistaken: there is no double assignment because it cannot exist by law. Finally, I would like to point out that the decision to put trust in order to prevent Parliament from examining the measures can be justified when there is a small majority. But when there is a majority that responds to the appeal of the Head of State and enjoys a confidence of 93-95 per cent of Parliament, therefore very wide, you cannot trust to co-arcate the majority, especially since the opposition will never do obstructive action. In this case, trusting means expropriating Parliament and thus trampling on a minority which is so objectively in the minority that it must not be trampled on in any way, much less on a coalition that comes from the appeal of the Head of State and is a broad understanding that contains more than 90% of Parliament. Precisely because the majority is so large and has responded to the authority of the Head of State, it cannot continue to trust that, in fact, by expropriating Parliament from the fundamental principles of Italian democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u21	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the new government, to which I wish good work, so that we can finally work constructively, because there are so many problems out there and they absolutely cannot wait any longer. The Decree-Law under discussion provides for extensions of certain measures related to the state of emergency which expired on 30 April 2021. There are certainly some interesting news on many fronts, from the extension of the vacation bonus to the digital tax; there are certainly provisions related to the school and university package. There is the integration fund and there are certainly situations that concern the precarious of the public administration, to which we give an extra year. There is an extension to 30 September of the moratorium on oil and gas concessions; there is a very important extension until 2023 of the protected market for the supply of gas and electricity to households and small businesses. There is also the extension of the so-called eviction blockade: the suspension of the execution of measures for the release of real estate, even for non-housing use, is extended until 30 June 2021, even if with limits. There are also rules on state examinations in simplified mode, which keep in mind a category of extremely large interested persons, until 31 December 2021, and there is a mini delay for the lottery of receipts. There are so many extensions. This is the part that I think is positive, because, where there are situations that cause further difficulties for people, urgent measures must be taken to enable those who live outside this institutional context, the normal citizen, to survive. We are at a time when ours is not life, but it is daily survival, in hospitals, in schools, in businesses and in work. Some people don't even have a chance to think about what they're gonna do after the pandemic, because we don't even know when it's gonna end and how. It's pure survival, it's living a day. This concerns, however, those who are outside; we who are inside will be called to try to legislate in a more structured way, because the sense of precariousness that we already live on a daily basis should not be shared even at the regulatory level. But it is. In the Italian political-journalistic vocabulary, a decree-law of the Council of Ministers contains urgent provisions to be implemented by the end of the current year, perhaps delaying the entry into force of regulatory provisions or extending the effectiveness of expired laws; this is the case of some of the provisions I have just listed. This should have been an exceptional measure, but it has been proposed annually in Italy from 2005 to 2015 and then again in 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021; for this reason it has become a habit. In addition, only one branch of Parliament is concerned, quickly; so there is no democratic aspect that should see both branches of Parliament involved in a homogeneous manner. The amendments are dealt with quickly and quickly and then, when the measure arrives here, the question of trust is usually raised (another element that is not good). This new group of governments sees us working cross-cuttingly, not because suddenly there is the need to be all friends, but because we are people who hold an elective office and who are called to try to give help to our country in a time of extreme difficulty, perhaps the most serious ever since the post-war period, that we have never tried, but that we have heard told by our grandparents. At that time perhaps there was still a supply chain of concrete aid among people, which has now been lacking. We are called today to work together to try to build. I hope I won't see another thousand-fold again. Each of us has touched on the parties that were most interested in him on a territorial basis, in terms of competence, professionalism or in terms of the Commission. If we go into the substance, we realize that this thousandprorogation decree is not only used as an institution to extend the expiry rules which, if not reworded, can create further damage to those affected by the rules themselves. In the folds there are also many small things that are inserted and have nothing to do with extensions. Therefore, it is also used in an extremely elastic way and this elasticity leads to the belief of those whose norm is directed to have solved the problem, while it does not know that it has been solved only temporarily. My hope is that this will be the last time we rely on this type of legislation and that, instead, we will get to a table by concentrating our activities, possibilities and ideas in a concrete way and that the standard will be streamlined. Also with regard to this we have another problem: in fact, because to be able to read the decree milleproroghe is difficult because it is very fragmentary. I hope that from now on the thousand-pronge decree belongs to the past and that the needs of those who are outside will finally come to be realized for the good of us and of our country, which is going through a very difficult period, and to leave something concrete even to those who will come after, that is, a method of lawmaking in a correct way and not in such a hasty and confused way. That is my wish. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today - and it is worth remembering - has been enacted by the previous Government and has been dismissed by a very different majority. The measure represents a bridge and a link between the old and the new and has the intention of ensuring the continuity of the operation of the entire administrative machine due to the emergency Covid, enclosing provisions of various nature and substantial character in the various sectors. The measure contains measures in favour of households and businesses. With this in mind, the forecast contained in this decree to extend the time limits for the submission of the application for the Covid Integration Fund and the postponement to 2023 of the end of the protected electricity and gas market. This government will have to continue and strengthen the path already taken by the previous one in order to accelerate the ecological transition. There can be no competitive and modern Italy at international level without the prospect of a sustainable development model both ecologically and socially. In order to be socially sustainable, this transition will have to be aimed at achieving high levels of employment, addressing social inequalities and reducing poverty levels and, above all, the North-South gap. Farms that produce biogas plants up to 300 kilowatts will be allowed to continue to access the incentives provided for electricity produced from renewable sources also for 2021. This regulatory forecast can be the starting point for the central role that agriculture plays in the country's energy and ecological transition. With the measure under consideration, the legislator's attention is placed on the sensitive issues for which the Movimento 5 Stars has always been committed. I refer, in particular, to two fundamental points: suspension of oil and gas research activity in our territory and extension to 30 September for the approval of the plan identifying the areas where oil and gas might be sought. In order to take decisions on the research and extraction of oil and gas, a thorough overall assessment must be carried out, taking into account the objectives of decarbonisation and environmental protection set also at Community level. Another sensitive issue addressed is the identification of areas that can be used for the storage of nuclear waste. Specifically, six months have been granted within which the Regions, local authorities, as well as qualified stakeholders, will be able to comment on the proposal for a National Charter of Areas potentially suitable for hosting the national storage of radioactive waste; six months in order to establish a constructive comparison with the territories, considering that from the 2014 CNAPI map, which identifies possible sites for the allocation of nuclear waste deposits, has passed about seven years. Therefore, a careful evaluation of the pre-existing criteria must be carried out, not defacing places near natural parks, as happened in Puglia, where the cities of Gravina and Altamura, located within the Alta Murgia, candidate for UNESCO as Geoparco, have been identified. Puglia has a naturalistic heritage, with its enogastronomic excellence, which must be valued. This is the commitment of the various mayors and the president of the Alta Murgia Park. This is a prediction against which the Movimento 5 Stars fought and will continue to fight hard. Programming will have to be the cornerstone of this Government's policy, in order not to throw away the huge opportunity we have with the recovery fund obtained thanks to the former President of the Count Council. The possibility has been introduced to add to the Mission Unit created by the General Accounting of the State up to ten employees of the other administrations, because an efficient public administration is the fundamental fulcrum for relaunching the development of the Country. We at Movimento 5 Stars are aware of this preeminent role and have always struggled to increase the incidence of permanent contracts in public administration. In the expression there is the forecast contained in this decree-law, which extends to 31 December 2021 the deadline to reach the three years of work that contribute to stabilisation. In addition, in order to make the state machine work best, recruitment to the TAR, the Council of State and the State Bill are also unlocked. The duration of the academic year 2019-2020 is extended for students who have suffered the special condition to which universities have been subjected during this year. In the context of the penitentiary system, the extension of certain institutions already provided for in previous provisions, such as admission to the semi-freedom regime, the granting of premium permits, the execution of a prison sentence not exceeding 18 months, in the context of the contemporaneous interests of public and private health and the general security of citizens, are important. Finally, I would like to point out that, following the fruitful dialogue between all the political components, we have reached an agenda that has the merit of putting at the heart of the political agenda the issue of respect for the Constitution, focused on a reasonable duration of the trials; this is a reform of the criminal and civil process that we at Movimento 5 Stars have started from the beginning with the former Minister of Justice Bonafede. Respect for the constitutional dictation, as the new minister Cartabia has said, also means respect for a series of articles that often fall into oblivion, such as Article 27 of the Constitution according to which prison must aim for re-education and reintegration into civil society. I would like to conclude my speech with a wish: this Government is born from the traumatic and unmotivated end of the previous experience of the Count Government, the subject of attacks and propaganda actions end in themselves, sometimes even dangerous for the country's holding in this emerging period. I hope that this new season will at least be the occasion for a constructive dialogue focused on the best interests of all: the good of Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u25	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u26	Mr President, today, with the conversion into law of the thousand-pronged decree, among the many measures adopted, we are also called upon to implement, in accordance with Article 21, the European decision on the system of own resources adopted on 14 December. It is a subject that, given its historical scope, deserves particular attention: the decision repeals the 2014 decision and allows the concrete implementation of the recovery and resilience instrument Next generation EU, the biggest financial opportunity for Europe and Italy, with 209 billion grants and loans to overcome the economic and social crisis resulting from the health emergency; this instrument (750 billion), with the pooling of a European debt, constitutes an unprecedented acceleration to the process of European integration. Mr President, it has been a complex year for 2020, which history will remember for having faced the greatest tragedy since the Second World War, in terms of loss of human lives and the serious economic and social consequences. That is why we needed a great European plan for reconstruction and recovery. That is why we needed a responsible European national government capable of ferrying us out of the disaster so that we would not fail the challenge we had and still face, for future generations and for the next 20 years. We strongly hope that ratification by national parliaments of the decision on own resources will pave the way for a fiscal union in a federal Europe for the strengthening of the internal market and for greater shared sovereignty, as President Draghi recalled, in a context of now regionalised globalisation and with a process of reshoring strategic supply chains. It is a modification of the current system based on traditional own resources, between customs duties and part of the national VAT revenue on that percentage of the gross domestic income of Member States which today accounts for more than 70% of resources, a definitive increase from 1% to 1.4% and a temporary increase of 2% to honour the common debt and avoid the use of the finances of individual Member States. The Commission is then delegated to define these new resources in order to meet the new priorities, starting with a tax on unrecycled packaging waste, up to the forecast of a carbon tax at the border, to the digital tax for digital giants. Mr President, after the ratification of the decision on own resources by April, with the presentation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, it is up to us to demonstrate our credibility for an efficient use of 209 billion for public and private investment, for the reforms necessary to relaunch the country, the well-being of citizens and for lasting structural growth that can make debt sustainable, financially speaking, also following the recommendations of the European Semester for faster justice, more efficient public administration and more qualified education. These are resources, Mr President, not without conditionality; it is still a European facility, which means that we do not yet have 209 billion in our pockets and that receiving the resources will depend on the quality of the national plan and on the ongoing monitoring of the results achieved with measurable indicators. We had asked for public investments to modernise the country, starting from public works still to be unlocked, fast connection infrastructures, smarter and regenerating cities, starting from investments on the most important factors, the human one, towards an economy of knowledge and culture. As we have learned, the economy depends on the effectiveness of the health system, care and care and public health, in turn, depends on the health of the planet. That is why we agree with President Draghi's proposal that protection of the environment and biodiversity should become a constitutional priority. Next generation EU is therefore the European turning point and the National Recovery and Resilience Plan requires the Italian turning point, but this requires a decisive discontinuity for sustainable development, innovation, modernisation and the reduction of gaps and inequalities. Today, with Article 21 of the measure before us, i.e. with the ratification of the European decision on the system of own resources, we are taking a historic step back, as Italians, to play a leading role in Europe, with a stronger Europe in the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once upon a time there were the guarantors: this is how Piero Sansonetti writes today on "The Reformist," commenting on the turning point, I would say the U-turn, of some political forces of the old and the new majority, on a fundamental issue for civil rights, for constitutional rights, for legal certainty and for the principles enshrined in our Constitution, such as the right process and its reasonable duration. I am referring, of course, to the issue of prescription. As we know, the reform proposed by former Minister Bonafede, which essentially abolished the limitation after the first instance judgment, even if the latter is absolution, entered into force on 1 January 2020. This is a reform voted on by the so-called yellow-green majority of the time, consisting of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League - risk of confusing me, with all these variable majorities - with the well-defined and formalized agreement in this House that would come into force on 1 January 2020, more than a year after its vote, to give Parliament time to launch the reform of the criminal process, which would have allowed the reform of the prescription to settle with the principle of the reasonable duration of the trial, so that hundreds of thousands of citizens would not be accused for life. As we all know, in fact, except for some hardened criminal, in the vast majority of cases the trial is the real penalty, even more serious than the one then really inflicted, in case the guilty of the accused is established, since almost half of the trials end with his acquittal. So there is an unjustly inflicted penalty, which increases exponentially because of the time it spends. As you know, the reform of the criminal process is still beyond to come and therefore the fig leaf of the Bonafede reform has fallen. However, the present majority is inventing an agenda, in the House of Deputies, which is basically being proposed here too, according to which Colombo's egg is found. Now, with the same political forces that have dropped the Conte- bis Government on this issue - if we remember correctly, President Conte has resigned because in this House, on the occasion of Mr Bonafede's report on justice, he was aware that the majority would fail precisely on the subject of prescription - there is a twist: what was no longer good when there was a majority of the Conte- bis goes well with the government chaired by Draghi. Now, therefore, it is no longer a problem that the reform of the statute of limitations has been in force for over a year and the criminal trial, who knows when it will come: you are all agreed to wait anyway for the reform of the criminal process, which, as we all know, takes a long time, indeed we hope it will be radically rewritten, because the draft that circulated was simply untenable. Mr President, with all due respect in these cases, I have a question to ask myself: what is the point of having the best ministers, if they behave exactly like the worst ones? It seems a trivial question, but I would like someone to give me an answer, because so far we have not seen any discontinuity in the action of the new Government, but unfortunately we have only seen signs of absolute continuity. The subject of prescription, among other things, is not trivial, but it affects millions of citizens who are subjected to infinite trials and still do not know when their ordeal will finally end. It is a question of a fundamental principle on which the pact between the State and the citizen is based, because if the State is unable to render justice in a reasonable time, when the sentence (of condemnation or acquittal) arrives, the first defeat will be that citizen, but the real defeat will be justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u29	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u30	Mr President, before we go into the substance of the measure and draw attention to some of the most important points of this act, I should like to make a few comments. It is clear to everyone, in the first place, that the decree-law in question is the result of a year of emergency Covid, which has evidently weighed heavily on its contents, with the measures directed directly to address the health emergency and its social and economic consequences, but also with all the measures linked to the inevitable slowing down of the administrative machinery, which, as we know, has been put under stress during this last year. Even to this condition of objective difficulty the decree gives attention and evidently tries to give answers. Alongside this, however, there is a second element that must be considered in the premise and it is obviously that linked to the political framework within which the discussion of this decree-law developed and developed. No need to repeat this: the majority has changed and, in part, the Government has changed significantly. It is therefore inevitable that both the House of Deputies, where the decree has been amended, and here in the Senate, where it arrived only yesterday, the parliamentary debate has suffered the consequences of a political framework that was changing, first of all because it imposed a limitation of the amendments to be discussed and those that could be approved by a majority that, with all the evidence, has changed in the course of work and, as we know, has very different characteristics from the previous - alas - being very wide and heterogeneous. I therefore add a consideration, in order to close this premise, that it seemed necessary to do for the sake of honesty, truth and coherence, with a calm and open spirit to confront also with the forces of opposition. Starting with the next decree-law that will be before Parliament, we will all have to be able to return to normal conditions both in the Commission and in the House to carry out a careful, thorough and serene discussion of the measures, particularly those of the Government. We have done so for much of the past year, even when the health emergency has reached its most worrying levels, and it is essential that we return to doing so in the coming weeks and months, when Parliament will have to make its decisive contribution to making fundamental decisions for the country's restart. Having said that and on the merits of the measure, it contains important interventions both for the difficulties that businesses are experiencing at this stage, and to allow the public administration to try to equip itself to best meet the needs of citizens, even in the given situation. To be honest, it must be said that, in addition to everything that was already there originally, the parliamentary debate has managed to bring significant new elements and, even on the most delicate issues in which it has left open some nodes that will have to be addressed in the immediate future, it has indicated a positive path to try at least to attack them. As far as companies are concerned, I would like to stress two points in particular on all of them. The first concerns liquidity, on which the extraordinary guarantee provided by Sace on debt securities issues by companies affected by the consequence of the pandemic extended to 30 June. With regard to the other point concerning income support, the deadline for submitting applications for the Covid Integration Fund and the transmission of the data necessary for the payment and balance of the same processing was at the end of March. I think that this is an important and necessary step forward in the situation of extreme difficulties that hundreds of thousands of Italian workers are experiencing. Now we are still buffering a wound that continues to bleed - let us be honest - but let us not forget that, without these measures, the true condition of many families and workers would really become explosive. Having said that, this necessary action will have to be transformed in the coming weeks into the proposal for solutions of a different nature both for active labour policies and for social shock absorbers that will necessarily have to continue to accompany them for a phase. Turning to measures affecting public administration, I would like to stress in particular the extension of the time limits for competition procedures and the intervention to reduce the precariousness of public administration. In particular, it extends to 31 December 2021 the time limit within which the requirement of three years of seniority for stabilisation and the date for launching competitions in part reserved for the precarious of public administration is fulfilled. Then we continue with these interventions a path that had begun during the last parliamentary term, to remedy a structural problem in our public administration. Then the holiday bonus is extended, which, despite being clearly an emergency measure, remains a support for families and an element of impetus for the tourism sector and we hope is accompanied by other measures in the coming months. I also think that they deserve an emphasis the extension of another two years of cutting direct contributions to publishing and the renewal of the contribution to Radio Radicale. As I said, there are also two issues that, although they have not found a complete solution, deserve great attention. The first is the right of access to housing, on which the debate in Parliament has been going on for years. I believe that perhaps today we finally have the opportunity to build solutions in a spirit of mutual collaboration: if it is true that the decree has remained the blockade of the execution of evictions, it has also established with an agenda the awareness among the political forces that for a topic such as this it is not enough emergency solutions; obviously we need diversified interventions and on various levels, that address the problem in structural terms and, at the same time, looking at the particularity of the situation posed by the emergency in progress. We need discernment, balance and the ability not to charge the need to guarantee a right, such as that at home, to those in extreme difficulty at the expense of another right, such as that of property. It therefore takes discernment both to distinguish the situations of greater social distress that require an extension of evictions, and for those small owners who need compensatory measures, because on a monthly rent count to have not a rent, but a fundamental contribution to their own income. We must all know that the right to home is fundamental, but above all it is a great social theme that impacts across the generations and above all on families in greatest difficulty. The other theme is the prescription. I think it is a good thing that we did not bring in such a fundamental issue - thankfully! - like that of justice in a measure like this, because the risk would otherwise have been to load it even more with explosive polemics and a high, useless and deleterious level of toxicity of the discussion. Having said that, today we must take a decisive step forward. You can no longer wait, nor put your head under the sand. A serious and convincing path has been indicated by Minister Cartabia, which puts at the centre the reasonable duration of the trials, as imposed by our Constitutional Charter. This is our compass, as Article 27 of the Constitution must be, that is, the reeducational function of the penalty for the reform of the penitentiary order, which is waiting to be resumed after a sleep that lasts for three years, too many. On these issues of criminal justice, as of course on the reform of the civil process embodied here in the Senate, the Democratic Party will act as a stimulus to build solutions that promote a better and more advanced balance between the efficiency of service to citizens and the protection of rights and guarantees. I should like to end by repeating that the decree-law under consideration, together with the necessary measures and positive aspects, leaves open some issues that I hope will find a response and a solution in the interests of Italy in the coming months, thanks to the joint commitment of Parliament and the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say something to this House: yesterday we presented the request for the creation of a new member of the Mixed Group, whose name is 'The alternative' and whose aim is to make a radical and not in a manner of opposition, such as the one announced by the Brothers of Italy; for this reason I ask the President, also on matters of respect for democracy, to take prompt action on this request, in order to rip open the smokescreen which, behind the principle of the Government of National Unity, is causing molasses to flow from this Parliament. Having said that, precisely in pursuing the objective of telling the truth about what is happening, provision for provision and also within the Government and not only in this House, I must begin this intervention with a cry of anger and sorrow for what is happening on the administrative and negotiation affair concerning the Morandi Bridge. It is news of yesterday that Cassa deposits and loans made an offer for the purchase of the part of Autostrade for Italy in the hands of Atlantia, evaluating it more than nine billion, that is substantially an amount greater than that estimated by Atlantia itself in its budget. In all this, account is also taken of the risk that the State would acquire for the damages that Atlantia and Autostrade for Italy could suffer as a result of all the causes that those who have been damaged by the collapse could bring. This is obviously unacceptable; it is not the revocation or decadence we had hoped for, but nothing more than a gift or a purchase at market price (and perhaps even higher than market prices) for Autostrade shareholders for Italy. The alternative is also in this case, because, as you know, a procedure is pending for the revocation of the concession, clearly supported by legal opinions, which have been filed and are at the records, according to which the risk of failure was however minimal. However, if someone claimed that this risk is still too high, there would be the possibility for the State to bring a legal action for the finding of non-compliance, because that bridge had to stand and it was the duty of the concessionaire to keep it in perfect efficiency and not to drop it; moreover, it could also require the condemnation of damages, other than to pay nine billion to have what the State could recover for free and, indeed, with the compensation of damages. Having said that, let's move on to another very important fact: the appointment of the Undersecretaries, the completion of the team of the best. There's a lot to say about that. For example, the entire information chain (publishing and frequencies) was given in bulk to Forza Italia. Let's see in detail: the Department of Information and Publishing has been assigned to a Undersecretary belonging to Forza Italia; the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE), which has in its belly everything related to telecommunications, has the Minister belonging to the League and the Deputy Minister, again, to Forza Italia. The President of the Parliamentary Commission for the General Address and Surveillance of Broadcasting Services is Forza Italia, as well as the Authority for Communications Guarantees (Agcom), which should monitor all this, and is also hegemonized by Forza Italia. Not to mention the Ministry of Justice: to be sure, President Berlusconi put his lawyer as Undersecretary, a bit like saying that the flock is guarded and guarded by the wolf. So let us come to the measure that we are most concerned with at the moment, the so-called milleproroghe. First of all, it must be said that he was fired from the House on 23 February, arrived yesterday in the Senate and not even twelve hours were given to table amendments. In the Commission we had a few seconds to take note of the view that the 6th Commission would give to the 1st Commission and then, without knowing anything, it was sent. This morning I also went to the first Commission and I saw perfectly well how the work took place: zero debate on the amendments, there was just time to discuss the agendas, but in a completely unnecessary way, if, as will be confirmed, confidence will be placed. This modus operandi is intolerable. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing here: what is the dignity of the Senate if we are not in a position to verify the measures and to influence them through amendments and debate? Parliament should be the temple of democracy, the place where the measures are discussed. On the other hand, here we are discussing absolutely nothing and in fact the result is that, in this thousandprorogues, as from the worst experience of the old Republic, together with many good measures, there are also some absolutely negative and injustifiable ones. Let's give some examples. You know that, also thanks to the intervention of the Movimento 5 Stars, a few years ago a law was made that prevented the elective organs of the health professional orders from standing after having carried out two mandates. This is obviously to allow a turnover, a generational turnover, to prevent there being incrustations dictated by the exercise of this power for too long. Well, with the thousandprorogations it was allowed to derogate from this rule, so it will be possible to submit your candidacy even after the first two mandates. In this way, people who have already held those roles for decades will still be able to do so for eight years. The amendment in question was tabled by Forza Italia to the House and, by chance, a Member of Forza Italia, again in the Chamber, is the chairman of the order of pharmacists who has been in office for twelve years and will be able to reappear for another eight years. We're back to the ad personam rules. Then we talk about the two million that are also allocated for 2021 to Radio Radicale. There is no doubt that it carries out a public service, but I often listen to it and I think it is very useful. However, this public service should be carried out by subjects who have won a race, like everyone else; there may be someone who does it better or at a lower cost and that is not the case. The contribution is awarded simply for continuity: it is not good, because these two million could certainly be spent better. And again, the norm is postponed - which had long wanted the Movimento 5 Stars and, in particular, the political leader Crimes - on the progressive disposal of incentives and direct contributions to publishing: its application is postponed again for twenty-four months, in which it will continue as before. Then we are talking about the drills, the postponement of the moratorium to resume the administrative procedures for concessions aimed at the extraction or the search for hydrocarbons. Well, as you know, we are waiting for the plan to be issued which areas are suitable and which areas are not. In order to prevent damage to areas which would not be suitable from being carried out pending the plan, it was said to wait for the plan to be published. For this reason, since the plan is not ready, we asked for a one-year postponement. This was not the case; a compromise was reached and - as a matter of fact - the postponement was only planned until September, when the White Semester will begin. At that date the plan will not be ready yet and certainly will be given again the possibility to carry out the drilling activity, but the Movimento 5 Stars or other parties that did not agree will not be able to say anything, because at that point the Chambers will no longer be able to dissolve. That is unacceptable. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u32	I gave you back your word, Senator Crucioli, but I see you're done.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that no one has done so, so let me first of all express my sincere best wishes to the new Undersecretaries and Vice-Ministers. It was a somewhat troubled birth, like all those who concern a firstborn, but by now the team is complete. I think that now the country expects to be made and no more words [[Applause]] and I am convinced that it will be so, in order not to mortify the sacrifice and the great sense of responsibility demonstrated by those political forces that, while coming from different traditions and cultures, have decided, for a limited period and for a contingent situation, to put aside what divided them in order to place themselves all together at the service of the country. This is an important image, which prides us, because it represents exactly the sentiment of the Italians or of the majority of them. I do not want to talk about the rules contained in this decree as we have received from the House of Deputies, but allow me to reflect on the last speech I have heard, in which my colleague complained about the stifling of the debate and the fact that it was not possible to discuss the amendments either. Welcome to each other. He was part of two majorities. [[Applause]] which had as their only working tool exactly this: transforming the perfect bicameralism into monocameralism. We hope that the present Government will show more attention to Parliament. This is a measure that comes from the old majority and has arrived here in the Senate in limine mortis. We must thank the Government for accepting some important agendas for us, and it is not true that the issue of trust will overwhelm the favourable opinion on these agendas, which - I would like to reassure my colleague - have been approved in the Commission, so they are all part of the measure that we are about to approve. [[Applause]] I want to point out some priorities that Forza Italia wanted to highlight: in this case too, let those who wanted them out of the majority and who perhaps wanted President Berlusconi negletto. If this government is born, it is above all for the intuition and foresight of President Berlusconi [[Applause]] which, at a time not suspicious, has launched the invitation to a government of the best, except then to be confirmed, appreciated the circumstances, at a later time. We care very much, Minister, about Alitalia. We know that an agenda has been adopted in the House of Deputies which commits the Government to tackling this problem as a whole and not to break its important asset, as it has been done until some time ago. If we are in these conditions, it is precisely because of the so-called policy of the stew, so we have always put on the market the precious pieces of our assets and we have kept those that brought us, instead, problems. Another situation that we particularly care about is justice. Allow me to say that, as much as I appreciate and appreciate Mr Balboni, I do not consider the matter exactly in his view. An agenda was adopted in the House and two in the Senate Commission, in which the question of the reasonable duration of the trials was addressed. The Government has committed itself to freeing up funding and reform in the field of justice, as well as tax reform. Moreover, it is a requirement of Europe and the Government has committed itself to addressing it. Of course, we have deleted or hidden the word prescription, because it would probably have created wounds, but when it is said that we want to reform the criminal process that takes into account Article 111 of the Constitution and the reasonable duration of the trials, it is clear that we are talking about limitation and that we cannot allow the shortcomings of a system to fall on the citizen. We have great confidence in the new minister of justice. In addition to being an eminent President of the Constitutional Court and an equally eminent university lecturer, I am convinced that he will find the forms, the ways and the paths for finally implementing that reform that has so far been flagrant, but has remained only on paper and has served to consume kilometers of ink, but has not found any concreteness. [[Applause]] Another problem that we particularly care about, of which we must acknowledge the government's responsibility, is to regulate all the discipline on evictions. We remember that private property is a constitutional right still in force in our country. [[Applause]] Therefore, because of the pandemic, which has certainly created problems and situations of economic crisis, putting many citizens in a position not to honour the commitment to pay the canon, we cannot allow the usual smart people, who take advantage of a situation that does not belong to them, to enter to try to beat the can for the threshing floor. The Government has made a commitment to regulate this matter as a whole, distinguishing contingent situations of need and necessity from those which, on the other hand, have immediatly exploited this situation. He also undertook to find ways and routes to compensate and restore the owners, who are not neglict in our country. They are decent people, who have invested in real estate with their work: it is not their fault that, unlike what happens throughout Europe, 85% of Italians are homeowners. It is a percentage that does not exist anywhere in Europe or, I believe, in the world. These people deserve to be protected as well as all other categories of our country. We therefore take note of this reversal of the trend, but we have also made further contributions. The Government has agreed to assess the possibility of allowing recruitment in the public administration until 31 December 2021, trying to highlight and reward the professionalism acquired, those with fixed-term contracts. This could certainly be a contribution to the public administration, to speed up and optimize its activity, using staff already trained, already experienced and already on the field instead of dedicating themselves to people who need training courses. Commitments have also been made to give more resources to institutions of scientific care and hospitalization. We need to invest in research and we have seen, if need be, how we dealt with the pandemic problem. This must be taught to us in order not to neglect the sector. Again, an increase in contributions to television stations. Unlike what someone says, they represent plurality in our country and a principle of democracy and should therefore be encouraged, called Radical Radio or local television. I believe that pluralism is a good thing to protect in an advanced democracy. I also mention the extension of all certificates, certificates, permits and concessions; the extension of the DURC's unique documents (those which expired on 31 January were extended to 31 July); the extension of the dry coupon for commercial activities; the extension of the notifications of the debitory folders. Minister, we ask for a reflection: how much is it best for the State to have hundreds of millions to recover - probably never recover - that are only used to fill up the statistics when, instead, faced with a reform of the tax system, could a break-up be made that gives the citizens the opportunity to pay in due time their debt to the State? We thank the attention that has been paid to the problems raised by Forza Italia and once again we wish good work to the new Government, which has finally been completed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u36	Mr President, as several Members have already mentioned, we are about to vote on the first measure of the new majority which supports the Government of Draghi, the Government of the country, without adjectives, as the President of the Council reminded us when he spoke here; a Government born with the imperative to change pace, to give answers at last; a Government to which the League has chosen to participate out of a sense of responsibility towards the country, because for us first come the needs of citizens, families and businesses and then the interests of party. Ironically, the first measure is precisely the decree-law that, in the collective imagination, represents a bit the inability of the Italian political class to give answers: always pull the ball forward without ever deciding. Here, too, there is a need for change, because there are two ways of saying: you can waste time - and often the thousand-fold in Parliament's history was an opportunity to waste time not to decide - but you can also buy time to build those answers that have not been given so far. This is the challenge: to buy time and give answers; what we have done in this regard is also what we have done. It is a measure that is party between the two governments and the two majorities, but responsibly as a League we have tried to give answers. It has been said: we should live in a Parliament and in a country where the thousand-fold should not even exist. It is true, we hope it is the last, but it has a great difference compared to all the other measures that bear this name: it is not by chance that many of its articles (18, 19, 20 and 22) concern measures related to Covid. This surely requires to buy time, because it is a completely new situation and it also shows us what are the critical issues that our country has not faced so far. If there can be an article about staff, selection, the possibility of giving answers immediately, there are some emblematic ones: I think about an article about digital connections for schools and hospitals. Surely there is a difficulty and a delay with which we lived, but we can no longer live together. A large part of the articles concerns the extension of measures related to the Covid and on this - let me mention it, given the somewhat critical interventions that always think about what can be done better, but do not look at what has been done well - it certainly could not proceed differently. I would like to give another example - let me say this - to all those measures which extend fundamental interventions for a part of our population that is still experiencing two crises and two emergencies. I am referring to the populations of the area of the crater of the earthquake that hit Central Italy in 2016-2017. Here again it took time to give structural answers on subjects of absolute justice; it was absolutely unthinkable that we could resume paying the bills relating to inactible real estate. Consider that a citizen living in the crater of the four Regions, if we had not foreseen an extension, would have suffered the injustice of seeing his property still unworkable inserted in the calculation of the ISEE to receive the services. In view of the fact that part of the responsibility for the delay in reconstruction comes from the bureaucratic delays that still afflict these aspects, extending such a possibility also for 2021 and 2022 is an act of justice and not a cunning or a wink of an eye. The same can be said of the exemption from the fee of advertising for economic activities, an exemption, however - be careful - which provides for the refreshment of the lower revenues for the municipal administrations; it is therefore a fair choice, which does not discharge on anyone else the responsibility. Of course, we know that an extension of a few days is not enough to send the debitory folders, but as a League we hope that those days will be used to find a solution first bridge and then final, certainly with more breath. Then we must not hide that there are some good things that could be done better. The extension of evictions is fine for those who cannot afford to pay because of the crisis; certainly negative is the fact that this extension can be exploited also by those who would instead have this possibility, but does not pay the rents, downloading in this case the cost on the owners, who suffer a damage, because perhaps with those rents they maintain and they must also pay us - ironically of the lot - taxes. Also positive is the one-year extension, until 2025, of the working group at the Ministry of the Environment for the study of the decrees end of waste, provided they see the light, because surely more could be done than was done by the previous minister. We hope that the extra year that is granted will make it possible to catch up with the accumulated delays. Staying on the environmental issue, since they have been recalled, that there is the second extension of the moratorium for the suspension of research permits (the famous drilling) may also be well; moreover, it is an extension from August 13 to September 30 (perhaps it was thought that the offices could not work in the summer). It's fine if the National Plan arrives, but we hope that this measure will not turn into an umpteenth no to those companies that are investing, that could invest and give answers to our country regarding energy needs. We need responsibility, but we also need courage to give those answers, the courage to lead the country and not to chase the polls. In order to do so there are resources, starting with the 32 billion available; we owe it to those who are clutching their teeth, but also to those who are no longer there. It is along the list of those entrepreneurs who took their lives because they did not have and did not see answers to the crisis; we owe it to them. To do this you need a shot that is not just in terms. This Parliament must be able to approve not the fifth ristori decree, but the first indemnification decree. [[Applause]] , which meets the needs of companies, keep them standing and allow entrepreneurs to do what they want to do for a lifetime: work to create wealth for their families and our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u37	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before the House today contains a comprehensive set of rules relating to the health sector. It could not be otherwise: the pandemic from Covid-19 has invested our country, like the whole world, and obviously the reflections of this shocking event have concerned every sector of our society. The Government before and the House of Deputies have subsequently done well to include a number of measures which intend to take concrete action in the field of health. In fact, the text provides for the extension of certain deadlines related to the measures followed by the declaration of the epidemiological emergency state from Covid-19 until the date of cessation of the state of emergency, with the provision that the relevant provisions are implemented within the limits of the available resources authorised under current legislation. In this respect, it is useful and appropriate to focus attention on extending the time limits for strengthening territorial assistance networks. On this subject, I believe it is necessary to make a general reflection. In this parliamentary term, it is clear that the Government and the parliamentary components have made a considerable effort to fill the gaps accumulated in recent years. Territorial assistance was the weak part of our National Health Service. There are many interventions in this parliamentary term. First of all, I highlight the turning point that took place with the establishment of the figure of the family nurse, a real milestone for the Italian health care of the future. Both the Government with the decree to relaunch and Parliament have intervened and are taking concrete action to introduce and regulate this figure. The family nurse will be one of the fundamental figures of Italian health care, allowing patients and families to avoid hospitalization with enormous benefits in terms of psychological and even economic health. We must therefore accept with particular satisfaction the interventions of the decree that extend the terms in the area of strengthening the territorial assistance networks because they represent another precise and concrete signal of attention to healthcare of proximity, that is, the health desired first of all by millions of Italians fragile together with their families. Here I would also like to highlight the rule contained in the decree that provides for the extension to 2021 of the use of the premium quotas to be allocated to the virtuous regions set aside for the financing of the National Health Service on the basis of the criteria of rebalancing and repartition indicated at the State-Regions Conference. This point is also very important and concerns the Italian health care of the future. All too often, unfortunately, in the past years we have been discussing waste at both central and, of course, regional level, also in view of the exclusive competence of the regions in health matters. Italian health care was not rewarding: in fact, the efforts of the most virtuous territories in economic terms and, above all, the quality of the services offered to citizenship were not highlighted in the best way. Finally, the register is changing and it is right here to acknowledge the great work carried out by the State-Regions Conference, a true moment of synthesis with a view to an effective and positive synergy between the various institutional levels. The decree in conversion today concretely accompanies this institutional effort and we must all be very satisfied with this. Other measures that are to be welcomed are the treatment of health workers, who are being tested so hard by the current pandemic and to whom we must always turn our gratitude and attention. The decree contains, among others, some rules concerning the special units of care continuity, the derogation of the rules on the recognition of occupational health qualifications and on citizenship and, for the recruitment of the public administration, the start of specific care function for the emergency Covid-19 and the permanence in service of the health personnel. In addition, again in the context of employment contracts, I signal the extension of the rules that provide for the assignment of certain tasks of self-employment in the field of health also to all graduates in medicine and surgery qualified for the exercise of the medical profession and enrolled in the professional order. These are concrete measures, in substance, which meet the needs of healthcare professionals and which will also have a positive impact on the level of care for citizens. Even the fundamental field of research has found the right attention in this decree-law. In this respect, it is appropriate to underline the regulatory intervention that provides for the provision for 2021 of the annual sum, from the financial resources of the National Health Service, for the achievement of objectives related to research, assistance and care activities related to the improvement of the essential levels of assistance. In addition, it is appropriate to highlight the rule allowing public-law institutes of hospitalisation and care and experimental zooprofilactic institutes to extend, until 30 September 2021, the current flexible work contracts relating to research and research support activities. Finally, I would like to highlight the rule that increases the Fund's budget for the year 2021 from EUR 5 million to EUR 7 million for the care of children with cancer. All these elements show that the decree-law also intervenes effectively and concretely in the health sector. The moment we are living is burdensome, extraordinary and puts a strain on our society. Every day the National Health Service is under strong pressure in all its elements, from facilities to operators engaged in the field, to scientists who work behind the spotlight to find the right solutions. In this regard, let me also highlight the need to intervene on the African continent. Africa needs to strengthen its health systems and reduce the scale of the hundreds of emergencies it faces. Although there are many unknowns at global level regarding the progress of the pandemic from Covid-19, for African countries the situation is particularly complex, also because Africa is a continent consisting of 53 countries with the most diverse socio-economic, health, political and national situations. Following and supporting African countries' strategies against the epidemic is of extreme interest to the European nations, including Italy, because we are so interconnected that combating the epidemic in Africa means giving value and prospects for future consolidation also to all those joint initiatives involving European countries. The institutions, at various levels, from the Government to Parliament, the Regions and the Municipalities, must fully play their role with a sense of dutyful responsibility, working in synergy, respecting roles and competences. The decree-law before us today also goes fully in this direction. Our support, hopefully as broad and convergent as possible, will help to affect society with the concreteness of the norms, developing the necessary climate of positivity and balance in the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u39	The general debate is closed. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2101, converting Decree-Law No 183 of 31 December 2020 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u41	The Presidency takes note of the position of the question of confidence on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 183, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 13.32 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u42	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law extending time limits, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall then proceed directly to the explanations of vote, which will be followed by the call, or around 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u45	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am very sorry that there cannot be a debate on trust, because the measure under consideration, which has arrived armored by the House of Deputies and which we know is the final coup d'état of the Count Government, would have deserved a more in-depth debate. There are in fact some very important points, such as the one-year extension for animal testing. It is useless for the animalists to do so in order to deny that the experimentation of certain drugs, especially neurotrophic ones, must pass through the animal experimentation and then all the animalists remain silent when there is ritual slaughter in Italy, which causes cruel animals suffering and has been banned in other European countries. I believe that the Fund for the care of children with cancer, from EUR 5 million to EUR 7 million, has rightly been implemented. I also think that what has been done with regard to recruitment in the municipalities for childcare services, as well as for other stabilisations and for the extension of health care that has been used during the emergency period, is quite right. Many forward contracts have been extended within the public administration, but unfortunately, once again, we do not understand why we have forgotten 70 families on the pavement, who have not received their salary since 31 December. These are the 70 professionals who have been working at the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas) for more than ten years. There had already been an agreement on the milleproroghe by everyone, from Agenas to the Ministry, and amendments had been tabled by all the political groups for their stabilisation since 1 February, but all were rejected. I think it is very serious that Agenas, on whom the recruitment of these people depends, already spends more than 300,000 euros for external advice and has appointed one executive for every six people. The Court of Auditors has already wandered the Ministry of Health for this. They do competitions for hiring others and throw away 70 people, 70 families. I hope that this element will continue to be taken into account. Also with regard to the last point, Forza Italia had tried to put an end to an incredible injustice, created with the blockade of evictions, allowing those who had evictions in place before the emergency Covid to have, if nothing else, a refreshment. There are small owners of real estate, who had started the eviction procedure maybe two years or two and a half years ago, who do not receive the rent and continue to pay taxes on the house. I sincerely hope that answers will be given to these people who are twice mistreated by our Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u46	We proceed to the vote on the single article of bill no. 2101, conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law No. 183 of 31 December 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u49	FANTETTI (Europeans-MAIE-CD). In confirming the trust of the Dragon Government in the so-called'multi-prorogation' measure, today we can only ratify the work of the Chamber of Deputies. Obviously we all know the circumstances that have kept the Houses firm for fifteen days and consequently the very tight times of the contingent situation. However, we cannot pick up the democratic vulnus inflicted on our perfect bicameral system, especially in cases like this, with a complex measure, rich in numerous interventions that cover various sectors, from the National Health Service to the AIFA to the MIUR, to the field of cinema, to that of radio, to that of live shows; interventions on tourism, on the harbour sector, on the third sector, in favour of workers engaged in heavy activities, those so-called socially useful, the airspace. These are all rules that directly affect the everyday lives of citizens, such as the one that includes, for example, the extension of the protected market for the supply of gas and light for consumers until the end of 2022, a sensitive issue that never affects the family budget, with a view to a transition to the free market that needs to be addressed carefully, without harm or disadvantage to users. Among the most important measures to support the agriculture sector, incentives for farms producing electricity using biogas are extended to 2022. In the environmental field, the time limits for the implementation of the national nuclear waste depot are postponed, considering that such an important decision cannot be without a peaceful comparison with the territories. The ban on drilling was also extended until the end of September, in the wake of the adoption of the National Energy Plan for the Energy Transition, which could provide a sustainable alternative to the areas concerned. At the end of March 2021, the time limits for the submission of applications for access to the Covid-related wage integration processes and the time limits for the transmission of the data necessary for payment or for the balance of those data expired by the end of 2020. More generally, all municipalities, and not only those affected by the earthquake, are given the opportunity to carry out measures to secure schools, roads, public buildings and to remove architectural barriers, as well as to increase energy efficiency. As for Italians abroad, the postponement to 30 June 2021 of the deadline expired as early as 30 January 2020 for the adoption of the decree of the Ministry of the Interior laying down the modalities of the implementation of the use of the fund of one million euros for the experimental introduction of electronic voting for the European elections, political and for the referendum, is seen by us extremely interesting. Finally, the deadline for the release by the Ministry of Business and Steri Network and the international cooperation of the credentials of access and identification through public digital identity system (SPID) and/or through the electronic identity card for the six million Italians abroad are extended to 31 December 2022. At the moment only about 8,000 of these have a SPID access and about 9,000 electronic identity cards and only 1 percent of users registered at the Fast It portal have so far used the possibility to access them via SPID. This extension is therefore also appropriate. Mr President, I would ask you to be able to hand over the text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u52	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, the so-called thousandprorogation decree is a ritual appointment for this period of the year. Very often it is the subject of critical assessments, especially because it corrects what was considered not sufficiently well done during the year, extends time limits and often introduces corrective measures to the budget law. However, it is a measure - we must be honest in the assessment - that, not in this House (and it can be a problem because we are here), but in the other, has been the subject of corrections. In fact, a scheme of work has been proposed - it is that of the previous budget law - of collaboration between political forces also different from each other, inaugurating a different way of working from the past and in some way anticipating what was then the destiny of the government activity, which saw different forces being together to support a new Executive. As I said before, the measure has been improved in the House of Deputies, surpassing the friendly-enemy scheme, in the sense that amendments from different political forces have been accepted, in a spirit of renewed cooperation. As we know, the thousandprorogues decree is sometimes seen as a half victory, others as a half defeat. It is a bit of a defeat because we are going to extend the terms of the rules that have not allowed the individuals entitled to benefit from it to the end. Therefore, the time limits are extended by giving an extra chance. Therefore, if - on the one hand - it can be a failure because there has been no chance of meeting the benefits of those rules; on the other hand, with the extension of the deadline, a new possibility is given to citizens and businesses to benefit from it. The issue that the approval of this measure - which happens very quickly here in the Senate - poses to us is that of getting progressively to the overcoming of the problem present in the system, in which there is in fact an alternating bicameralism by virtue of which every time a Chamber manages to deepen the provision, while the other must merely ratify it. This has been happening alternating between the House and the Senate for the last three years. In my opinion, in the political situation we are in, in which there is a government supported by most political forces, in the coming weeks this issue can be followed up and deepened by all political forces, as we need to find a way to examine the bill of conversion of decrees-laws in a comprehensive way in both branches of Parliament. This is an issue that we must address in the coming weeks. As I have already said, the measure has been the subject of major improvements in the House of Deputies and it enhances some fundamental issues, starting with the simplification of investment. We also know that broadband has been introduced for hospitals and school buildings, especially to reduce red tape for citizens. There are also important rules on the stabilisation of precarious public administration staff, doctors and nurses. I also recall the rules for the protection of pluralism in information and the time limits for extending the use of resources to combat educational poverty, which is very important in a phase of reducing the sociality of our children. The facilities on water, electricity, gas and telephone rates were extended in the areas affected by the earthquake in 2016 (Abruzzo, Marche and Umbria) and the special accounts for the security of cultural heritage in the areas affected by the earthquake in 2016 were extended to 31 December 2021. In short, there are many important measures that go in the direction of the protection of the citizen and of the entrepreneurial activities. We must therefore take note of the fact that this measure has been improved by the House of Deputies, thus giving a new breath to the function of Parliament, where often the measures, as I said before, cannot overcome the dichotomy between government and representation. The government issues measures and then often the representative body, the Senate or the House, in short, the Parliament, fails to affect that decision phase. We must take note of the fact that with this vote, in respect of which, of course, Italy Viva expresses support and confidence in the Government (so from now on I can say that we will vote in favour of the measure), a political phase is closed. There is no doubt that the budget law and this time-limit extension measure close the phase of the previous majority and open a new one in which there will be strong cooperation between different forces. By supporting the Draghi Government and reaffirming our support already from this vote of confidence, we will have to support the leadership of this Executive decisively so that it can take us out of the pandemic and restart the economy. However, this can be done by making Parliament absolutely central in the representation of the interests of the citizens, and it seems to me that this was also a point of direction which the President of the Council has clearly expressed in the parliamentary Chambers. I therefore believe that we will have to work for this, to deliver to the next parliamentary term functioning institutions, otherwise it will only be the citizens who will pay the consequences. The pandemic has weakened the country and we must give decisive support to this phase of government because it is not enough just to have poured huge resources into the country's economy to overcome the critical issues and the emergency; now we will certainly have to stimulate the restart, starting with the measures we know, especially the recovery plan, but we can do it with determination because the new government has a broad parliamentary base that best represents the results of the elections of 2018. By supporting this Government, we therefore come out of the controversy about the 2018 election result and how much the successive governments reflected it: being the political forces widely involved in the new government challenge, we will also overcome those controversy and this will give decisive and decisive force to the activity of Government. In my opinion, the next few weeks will be decisive. We approve of this measure which contains corrective measures and shows attention to some issues that may have escaped in the budget law, but we will have to do so as a springboard to support the government's future activity, giving Parliament great importance, as I said before, because in this way we will take that step forward that Draghi pointed out. The President-in-Office of the Council correctly said that, as political forces, we do not take a step backwards; the way in which we are in government has changed, the majority has changed, but we all take a step forward in the interests of the citizens. It is necessary to give strength to the Government to restore momentum to our country, to rebuild it and, above all, to manage an emergency that is not over, because for example the vaccination plan will be the starting point of this Government, but then our future challenge will be to relaunch the country, give breath to the economy and above all give an important signal to the citizens. I am thinking of a policy alongside the citizens, in which political forces put aside the contrasts, not the fundamental differences, which will remain and remain, but the daily begs, the furious battle of every day to identify some fundamental key points in order to give answers to the citizens who look at us exclusively to see solved their problems and not to witness the usual daily battles and wars on nothing. I therefore conclude by saying, as I have already said, that Italy Viva supports this measure and votes in favour of the issue of trust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u55	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, I would like to make two points, one on the substance and the other on the method of the measure. I think it is clear to everyone that it is a new government, which, however, is dragging old vices, such as putting yet another confidence, which has now become a sort of constitutional reform, in spite of the referendum that saw the Movimento 5 Stars, as well as my Group, to ask for a vote against, in favour of bicameralism, what we do not see today and we have not seen for a long time. The fact that bicameralism is absolutely zero tells us the many measures that have seen only one passage to a Chamber, making it arrive armored to the other Chamber. Even there are provisions that in both rooms have had the same process. There is therefore little interest, using euphemism, in democracy and those who probably have a different opinion from yours. A referendum in fact accomplished what a political force today to the Government with this majority, which perhaps is also the cause, according to some of you, of the delay in the arrival of the measure in this House, which has not even allowed our political force - the only political opposition force - to be able to discuss an amendment in the Commission. We have confined ourselves to agendas, without even examining an amendment, although we, as has always been said, are absolutely patriotic opposition. You brought the measure to this House with delay, making it believe that confidence was necessary just to avoid coming close to March 1st with short breath; in fact, you had short breath because you spent these two months discussing and focusing more on the conservation of your species rather than looking for solutions and getting the nation out of the slime of the unresolved problems. Too bad that there are many unresolved problems outside and that there are many categories, unlike yours, very at risk. We understood that you do not have so much respect for democracy when you have put every action in place so that you do not have the right to rule; you have even said so. So zero elections and no chance of giving the people the floor, and that's why an excuse is always found, just agree or almost. There are also those like us who think differently because we have always been patriots; we were even when the Tricolor was démodé, even when some of you were waving other banners and flags. Today we are happy that those who did it then - either the red flag or another color - today shake just that Tricolore that we have always waved and we have like lighthouse and bulwark of our actions. We also ask ourselves, in a very responsible way, how we can be patriots today with this Parliament, with such a overwhelming majority. As we have always said, we will support all the measures we consider useful to the nation, doing so without asking for anything in return. Let me also mention those who said a few days ago that it is easier to be in the gallery to criticize: we are not in the gallery, we play this whole game, we play it in the Commissions where we are alone, in the squares where we are not alone, but we feel the affection and the sharing of our thoughts by so many people and we do it here too. Of course, when you allow us because we have now remained to the sentences of the DPCM, of the then premier Conte who said what was allowed and what was not. I do not think it is you who have to decide what is allowed or not; I believe that there is a higher value, which is called democracy, to which you too have to bow because it is not a concession that you give us in this House to discuss such important measures, but it is simply the true and unique salt of democracy. Let me also respond to those who have called our opposition a bland one: no, I'm sorry, our opposition is an intelligent one. [[Applause]] I understand it's not for everyone and everyone can't do it. I understand that, but that depends on the instruments that mother nature has handed over to each of us. It is equally clear that some of you do not understand and do not understand the fact that someone is working for the nation without having anything in return; well, make it up to you. We have always been like this, and our constituents probably recognize us as being very consistent, that is, not to bend over, but to always have as the only beacon the national interest. And it is precisely because of the national interest that we are here today and will also be here tomorrow, trying to help you with whatever measures we consider useful. We not only represent that part of a coherent nation, but we also represent a garrison of democracy; we represent a part of that one country in the world that defines itself as democratic and has democratic principles, but that has such an overwhelming majority that, if we were not there, it would not even have an opposition. I leave out the fact that we are the only nation in which the premier is not chosen by the citizens and that we are even the only one in which the premier has never even competed in an electoral competition: another vulnus of democracy. However, we have so much esteem in Draghi, but much less than the majority who support it, because in fact the majority of the majority is numerically the same that led this nation to the edge of the abyss and today invokes as salvific the arrival of Draghi, thus miscelerating its obvious inadequacy to lead the country. We are much more than that: we are the ones who still have the presumption of being able to discuss people's problems in a Parliamentary House. Something happened to the House that no observer could have missed: 2,383 amendments were withdrawn by the new majority, silent, as if 2,383 problems had disappeared just because there was a new majority. It's not like that. The problems remain, need to be addressed and resolved and, when you ask who can help you deal with those problems - if Prime Minister Draghi asks too - you will know that on this side of the hemicycle you will find much more loyalty than you will find in so many other parts of the hemicycle and the majority that supports the Government, because unfortunately we are done this way: we have only one word and, when we give it, we certainly do not go back. We would have asked in the amendments for an extension of the validity of the DURC (single document of contributory regularity), because it seems clear to me that anyone who is in difficulty today will not have a DURC that allows him access to certain types of initiatives. With regard to the postponement of the debitorial records, I regularly see political forces with slogans and cartoons referring to the postponement of the debitorial records: it was enough to vote an amendment that we presented to the House and also here in the Senate and it would have been easy to do so. There are three days left - notice to the distracted - on 28 February. We have asked for the extension of the 110% superbonus; we have provided you with the instrument to intercept and resolve the problems of large industries. Before, Senator Urso spoke of golden power, giving Minister Giorgetti the opportunity to still have that tool to intercept crises and save companies, especially in the agro-food and steel sectors. However, we have not been able to discuss this because the amendments (only 100) have never arrived in this House. Along with these there are many other things that we have brought home, thanks to the work of the Parliamentary House Group, to the work of Mr Trancassini on publishing and to the work on cableway installations and earthquakes. We are showing you how useful it is to have a political force that controls that wing of the debate, because today we are presiding over that area where dissent, debate and the different idea are strangled, but tomorrow there can be any other political force: well, also for that political force, but especially for the Italians, today we remain proud of the opposition and we will vote no to the confidence placed by the Government on this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u58	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, the succession of parliamentary governments, that is, governments that are not born from the expression of the outcome of the ballot boxes (to remind me of those who preceded me what is written in the Constitution), has now begun from November 2011 and means that many of us, understood as belonging to political forces present in Parliament, have had the opportunity to intervene, both to defend and to stigmatize the thousand-pronged decree. This parliamentary government, however, has broad support, because it is clear the emergency that the country has to face. On this occasion, I would like to consider how the thousand-pronged decree contains so many aspects that point to the drama of the moment that we are living, but also to the fundamental issues that we are called upon to address. The thousandprorogation decree inevitably deals with the Covid-19 emergency: on the one hand, on the public administrative side, as regards the ability of public administrations to deal with the emergency with extraordinary tools; on the other hand, on the side of the relationship between the enterprise and the public system, at a time when we have to support many sectors that are in difficulty and that cannot see add to the economic problems, also bureaucratic difficulties; on the other hand, issues that concern relations between private individuals, involving people and families in difficulty. Therefore, in this thousand-pronged decree there are those interventions that the emergency health, the economic emergency, the social emergency, that the president of the Republic Mattarella has indicated as problems to be faced and solved through the action of this Government, must, at this moment, be neutralized regarding the deadlines that concern the activity of the public administration and the productive worlds. We have often heard the refrain that Italy is a country that always rules in emergency, a country that never comes out of the emergency or from the various emergencies that happen, that are then facts and problems that, many times, we are comfortable to label as emergencies. The peculiarity of this juncture, however, is that our country is called, more than on other occasions, to face emergencies with planning. It is not the planning of the cuts; it is the planning of the new development, which concerns the new development and the new future that we want to give to the country, within a broader future that the European Union wants to give, the latter not only understood as States, but as a community of people and citizens. We understand, then, that facing the emergency with planning is the way in which the timeliness of the action and the vision of the future are held together. What I have just said is written in Article 21 of the Multipronge Decree, the article which implements the European Union's decision establishing the Union's own resources system for the next seven years and which contains, in fact, the vision that Europe as a whole, that is, all together the European States, is willing to finance; using but I would say otherwise, a more specific term for me, that vision of Europe on which, all together, the States are willing to invest. I am one of those who does not forget the past years and, if I may allow myself, history simplifies it this way: I am grateful to Merkel and Macron, because, at the time when Spain voted every six months (and it lasted two years), Britain was strongly nourishing its decision to leave the European Union, the countries of Visegrád put ever greater distinctions on the future of the Union, in Italy was born the largest eurosceptic government of the continent, Trump fed scenarios of disintegration of Europe and Putin and Erdogan began policies, even military, aimed at developing a hegemony in the Mediterranean, in this context Merkel and Macron, not others, kept the bar straight and firm on the values of Europe. This condition has enabled, on the one hand, to manage Brexit with force and without subjection and, on the other hand, to recover the sense of a true Europeanism that today allows us to face, without despair, the pandemic and its consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, the thousand-pronged decree has always been the thermometer of the inefficiencies of our system, of the discrasies between the institutional levels, of the inability to come to the head of questions and managements that have been dragging for years. The thousandprorogation decree is, in the end, the litmus test of the lack of an analysis of the regulatory impact and we see it also in our examination because, apart from the measures rightly needed by the pandemic crisis, we draw actions that clearly demonstrate what I have just said. It is precisely in this thousand extensions that we are called to be aware of the challenge ahead. Here are the resources given to Italy, but also the commitments requested to Italy. In short, we are asked precisely to eliminate the difficulties that historically and constantly have been pointed out by the thousandpronges of recent years, if we want to implement that Article 21 which draws the future of Europe. [[Applause]] We must be capable of that analysis of the regulatory impact, of that ability to simplify, of those actions that bring together the various institutional levels (Comuni, Regions, Ministry, State, agencies of the State), that allow us to spend those resources in a just and effective way, in the time provided for by Europe, without generating infinite disputes and without that tomorrow we have to invent police agencies in order to close agencies in their turn that at this time we are also active. Beyond the political diversity, legitimate aspirations and plans of each political force, which - I hope only apparently - find in this Government a cesura, I believe that in reality we fully grasp what we are called to put to common factor, not only for the good of the country and for the good and future of the young generations, but also for a new role that Italy can play in Europe. In short, all the European countries, with the one that represents article 21 of the decree milleproroghe that we approve today and with which we execute the Next generation EU, have bet on Italy: all the European countries have invested more than 700 billion euros on the ability of Italy to be an important motor of the development and the change of the European Union. They're betting on us and investing us in other countries, so shouldn't we bet on all our energy? I therefore vote in favour of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u61	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I do not know whether we will finally see the abolition of the multi-pronged decree-law, which would be the real turning point and the sign that a real reform of the public administration has taken place; it would also be a sign that the various governments are holding firm the decisions they have taken; it would also be a sign that perhaps Parliament too will come back to expressing its decisions forcefully. I say this because we always take it as a traditional fact that we proceed at the end of the year with the decree thousand extensions. And this leads to paradoxical situations, because often we even come back to measures and rules taken perhaps only a few days before in the budget law. Or worse: we are trying to change the rules themselves and the direction taken by Parliament a few years earlier. Of course there are also urgent measures, but I believe that this would be the real sign of a turning point, so that the government can go back to being a government, Parliament to being a Parliament, and the ministries' administrations to do their job. The decree-law thousand extensions under consideration were also particularly unfortunate, in the sense that it was found between the crisis of the previous Government and the transition to the new Government. Unfortunately, the result has been - many have complained about it in this House and certainly cannot go through it in silence - the fact that today in a few hours we have to convert it into law. A work has been done in the House which has led to the adoption of some amendments, which have certainly improved the text. Others were fortunately not approved, because otherwise they would have marked a worsening of the decree-law itself. Moreover, as I said, it has gone from one government to another and above all from one majority to another. The present majority is not a coalition majority; we all know perfectly well that this is an emergency government. I would add, hoping to be heard, that this Government should not only devote itself to ordinary administration, because it is born as the Government of the President and as an Emergency Government (this is his justification), but should focus primarily on the fight against the Covid. Yesterday we heard Mr Hope's communications and adopted a resolution; today there is a European Council on the question of vaccination plan. We will have to put in place all possible efforts both to solve the problem of supply and to speed up vaccinations themselves. The other big question is recovery. This Government and this majority should focus in every way on the PNRR; Parliament, which is holding hearings and is working in the Commissions, should also make the greatest possible contribution at this stage, because this is the fundamental issue. I would like to say that another urgency before us is the fifth ristori decree, which was also included in yesterday's resolution. Someone is very happy; but unfortunately in this crisis someone has created problems since the beginning of December (now we are at the end of February and we are coming almost to the beginning of March) and this has in fact resulted in a kind of detention, for three months, until the situation in which we are in. Those who now boast that they have finally given the country a strong government, thanks to their contribution, must also take into account the fact that, thanks to that contribution, we have been quite firm for three months. Today we must quickly recover lost time and concentrate very much on the five refreshments. But let's go to the thousand extensions. I am not talking about the amendments which have fortunately not been adopted, leaving the text as it stands. I am thinking of the issue of evictions, and I would like to thank the first Commission, which, among other things, approved an agenda presented by us on this very point, which is a major emergency. In Covid's time, I think it's abhorrent that I just thought, as someone thought, of putting so many families in the street. A number of issues, some of which are also very important, are dealt with in the thousandprorogation decree. I quote, for example, the question of drills (Article 12-b); there has been an extension to 30 September as a deadline for the adoption of the Sustainable Energy Transition Plan for the appropriate areas. Here too, unfortunately, there is a delay; the extension to 30 September is fine, but I cannot fail to remind myself of one thing, first of all, given, among other things, that President Draghi has repeatedly referred, during his communications, to the priority issue of combating climate change and the ecological transition. In essence, I hope that the deadline will not continue to be postponed and that a decision will be taken. Often the milleproroghe is made not to make decisions, but we no longer have time not to make decisions. Among other things, given that everyone rightly points to European targets and Europe, I would like to remind all of us that we must achieve a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. We must, therefore, certainly accompany the decision and not postpone it anymore: we must take responsibility for it, since this process can no longer be held back or arrested. If we continue to think about moving on with fossil fuels, I believe that not only will we not achieve a 55% reduction in emissions, but climate neutrality by 2050 will be just a dream. That is what I wanted to say. It's okay to have more time to make the plan, but we absolutely need to know that the goal is the final stop to ensure decarbonisation. I come now to another matter. Fortunately, a negative amendment was rejected on the well-known issue of vivisection. Some had proposed that the ban should be extended for up to three years. It remained the text of the decree with the extension to one year, but this rule had already been operational for a long time and precise indications were given about it. So I think it's time to make some decisions. Other important issues concerning the extension of rankings, seismic events, education and university are dealt with in the thousandprorogation decree before our examination. As usual, in conclusion, it is a measure with lights and shadows and because it touches us again this year we announce our vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u64	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister for Relations with Parliament, fellow Senators, today my explanation of vote for the Forza Italia Group is particular because, for the first time, we are about to vote in favour of a measure which was born when we were not in the majority and which we are voting today. This measure lives, therefore, a particular pathology not being exactly the result of the work of this present majority, born in these days fortunately for Italy and for Italians. And I am of course pleased that my political formation, which is also widely represented in this House - we are talking about 52 senators - can help to improve measures which were born before our political formation could make a concrete and active contribution to the measure. Also the present decree-law in expiration - reason for which Minister D'Incà has rightly posed the question of trust on behalf of the Government since on 1 March would decay its effects if it were not converted - is part of a logic of substantial monocamerality because, as is known, in emergency period Covid all decree-laws have been deepened by the Chamber that has seen incardinata the decree of urgency and the other, whether it was Chamber of Deputies or Senate of the Republic, in fact played a role of simple ratification, I would say almost notary regarding the parliamentary activity carried out of the first Chamber. In this case, how is it known to all of us that we love our Constitution and believe in it deeply (I say well, Mr Richetti?), it is obvious that the Senate simply finds itself ratifying what has been done elsewhere. As Mr Vitali pointed out in his speech, during the general debate - congratulations to you, dear colleague - what could we do? We could help to improve it, even if only in terms of invocation, desire, willingness to make changes and improve according to our point of view, according to the values and principles in which we believe. Through what instrument? The one on the agenda. As has been skilfully stated in the general discussion, we have improved the measure, even in terms of future prospects, the possibility offered to the Government of picking up some of our suggestions, some very concrete suggestions, which I shall mention shortly, that in the forthcoming legislative measures - I say, my colleague? - they will be able to improve what hastily is prepared in this decree-law, on which conversion we, however, prepare to vote in favour. I am referring to the ancient battle horses of our political movement, to our desire to always stand on the side of those who are right and those who do not have to suffer the consequences of measures to defend someone on their own skin. I refer, for example, to the evictions for morosity, which Senator Vitali has rightly pointed out with statements that are a little 'fighting with the speeches of our majority colleague Loredana De Petris - who is now moving away from the Chamber - who sees it a little 'different from us. It is not fair, in fact, that an owner (maybe a small owner) of the apartment, who also lives from the proceeds of the rent of that house, who perhaps with great sacrifice bought with a mortgage, and then maybe grant it later to his son or daughter, must pay the consequences of this blockade of evictions. It's not fair; at least it's the state! [[Applause]] Indeed, one of the agendas approved this morning by the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs provides for the possibility of taking account in future of the fact that it is not right for a small owner to pay the consequences of a blockade of evictions which, at the limit, will have to weigh on the coffers of the State. For example, our agenda provides for the possibility of reaching at least 60% of the rent and ancillary charges. Here, let us give at least one hope to these citizens, considered by the State of series B, who must meet the needs of perhaps a wretched man who lives in that house and who does not have the opportunity, because he may have lost his job, to pay the rent. It is not right that that rent be paid by the owner; that at the limit is the State! [[Applause]] This is about evictions by morosity, certainly not others. Let us therefore try to give back some order to a country that, instead, in this time has made so much confusion and that, above all, has not given the possibility to many citizens to think of being Italian citizens like all the others and not Italian citizens of series B! That's the problem. [[Applause]] Together with these agendas, we have then tried to improve the measure with another set of evaluations and commitments. Here, the right term is "commitments" for the future by the Government. We are talking about one of these commitments: the reduction of time contracts and the enhancement of professionalism in public administration contracts. It is not right that people who may work on a fixed-term basis for a public administration should also be given a special focus during this period. The possibility of public administrations acting on permanent contracts should be extended. Similarly, on the recruitment of doctors we presented a second order of the day: in a situation like this one understood, in a horrible year, that in our country had been wrong when he had cut too much on territorial health. Am I right, colleagues? He cut himself too much. [[Applause]] We have hospitals with many doctors on the eve of retirement and meanwhile we have parked many young doctors waiting for employment. Today we need it, we don't even know how to suggest vaccinations and we had to resort, in emergency, to the possibility of entering into contracts with the family doctors' order to inoculate the anti-Covid vaccines. We're hiring doctors. We must also help the oncology network, ladies and gentlemen, which has been somewhat forgotten. We must not forget that. Even in the area of justice, with regard to the reasonable duration of the trial, Mr Vitali - and I quote for the third time - has certainly done a great deal of work to make it clear that, although the prescription has unfortunately been lifted, we must take drastic action on the aspect of the duration. So, friends, colleagues, Italians, know that Forza Italia is always on your side, especially towards the part of the self-employed and VAT matches that have suffered so much. On this occasion too, we will make a contribution by voting in favour of trust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u67	OSTELLARI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Adacta study published yesterday, analysing the balance sheets of 22,000 companies in the North-East, closures, uncertainty and bureaucracy have helped to dissolve 52 billion turnover: this in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Trentino and Veneto, the region from which I come; 22.5 billion in the manufacturing sector alone. The predictions are no better than the instant image. The companies of one of the most productive areas of the country will emerge from the crisis with an average loss of 16%, since it is accentuated in the most prestigious sectors of Made in Italy, such as textiles and furniture, and in the activities that most distinguish doing business in our country, including tourism. To complete the portrait, to the uncomfortable calculation of the impact on the economy of the health emergency, we must add the structural delays that afflict our country system: in 2019 in Italy there were 3.300.000 pending judgments in the civil field, even increasing compared to previous years. An average civil process lasts seven and a half years: this figure, ladies and gentlemen, is among the worst in Europe and costs us 180 billion foreign investments that we will never see, with a loss of GDP of about EUR 20 billion per year. All this while more than 5,000 honorary magistrates work underpaid and without protection and excellent professionalism in the areas of law, such as lawyers and notaries, wait to be able to express themselves fully and, why not, make themselves available to lighten the burden that oppresses our courts. Among others, ladies and gentlemen, I particularly appreciated a passage from the intervention to the Senate of President Mario Draghi, according to which it is necessary: to increase the efficiency of the civil judicial system, implementing and promoting the application of the decrees of reform in the matter of insolvency. Ladies and gentlemen, in Italy, among other things, there are tens of thousands of honest workers and businesses waiting to be paid for benefits they have regularly paid, for goods they have delivered or for activities they have carried out. [[Applause]] These activities often stifled not because of the actual impossibility of the debtor to pay the credit, but because, by making himself a shield of wrong laws and an invincible bureaucracy, an army of well-trained slymen has assumed the custom of taking advantage of honest people, without in fact risking anything. This is not a secondary phenomenon: according to an estimate of 2018, 70% of professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises and 8% of large companies report unsolved. On this, ladies and gentlemen, the League is present and has presented its own bill. Even in the field of security it could have dared more, I say it without controversy, but quoting the data. For years, when it was to be cut, it has been chosen to do so in this sector, reducing the number of staff, saving on security equipment and uniforms, asking for sacrifices even on the costs of stationery. With the decrees Salvini we had tried to reverse the course: now also on this there will be work, quietly, but without pretending that the reality is another. As Mrs Gianni Tonelli reminded the Chamber of Deputies, there are 10,000 judicial police officers in Italy; in Sicily, since 2015, the patrols assigned to control on the territory are 40% less and in the capital city, such as Latina, Mantova or Ferrara, the police have no more than 500 euros a year to buy paper and pens. The Italian VAT matches, tarassed and illusory by promises of refreshments arrived late - when they arrived - and insufficiently, which are the backbone of our country system, have no guarantees, are excluded from all forms of income protection, are submerged by bureaucracy and, more than all, are exposed to the damage of the crisis. Today we would have liked to talk about this too, putting before all the good of the country, as responsibly and - let me say - also courageously chose to be the League, supporting the new Executive. Unfortunately, the inexorable timetable of deadlines has forced us to address other issues - well, let's do it! - even by refusing to amend a decree-law, which could have accepted improved contributions from this House, but which, for contingent reasons, we are urgently called upon to dismiss as it is, without amendments. However, this measure contains common sense provisions on important issues; I am thinking of that concerning the postponement of the entry into force of part of the tunnel decree, the arrears of self-schools and motorizations, the support of pluralism of information, interventions on the high-speed railway line and the control bodies on wines PDO and PGI, to name a few. The measure, however, forgets many requests from citizens and associations, as in the case of the extension of the blockade of evictions, carried out without a necessary and not extendable refreshment for the owners [[Applause]] , which are not the Mazzarò, but are very often small savers or pensioners without other sources of income. For them and for all Italian citizens, who have waited for answers without receiving them, we open a new season of dialogue and collaboration. No more postponements and shortcuts, no more escapes from responsibility, no more extensions, no more DPCM: then we begin to work to build, to innovate, to free the best forces of our country from bureaucracy and injustices, with measures that look to the future and not to the past. On this the League is there and for this reason announces its vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u70	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, the measure that we are about to vote on today contains fundamental measures for citizens, as some Members have mentioned, and for this reason I immediately announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. The measure contains several rules for the extension of time-limits for legislation covering issues such as the Covid-19 emergency, recruitment in public administration, justice, education, culture, work and others. The text has undoubtedly been greatly improved thanks to the examination carried out in the Chamber and the fundamental contribution of the Movimento 5 Stars and I thank Minister Federico D'Incà for the enormous work done. [[Applause]] It brings, for example, the signature of our Group the amendment whereby the end of the protected energy market, scheduled for 2022, is moved to 2023. This is a measure aimed at guaranteeing the rights of the most vulnerable users and those who suffer from severe economic and social hardship. At this very difficult time also from the economic point of view, because of the emergency Covid, many citizens could find themselves in difficulty with respect to the imminent liberalization of the electricity and gas markets, whose tariffs currently average are 26 percent higher. That is why we strongly wanted and obtained the extension, which was approved thanks to our work. The Movimento 5 Stars does not allow and never allowed to put their hands in the pockets of the citizens. [[Applause]] Another important point for our Group has always been the environment. There are two amendments concerning the ecological transition. We have extended the stop to drills until September, linked to the adoption of the Plan for the sustainable energy transition of the suitable areas, adopted with the simplification decree, which aims to offer a defined framework of reference of the areas suitable for the carrying out of the activities of exploration, research and cultivation of hydrocarbons on the national territory. With regard to the national single storage of radioactive waste, the Movimento 5 Stelle has presented a proposal which will increase from sixty to one hundred and eighty days for the public consultation on the National Charter of areas potentially suitable for hosting it, an extension useful for the communication and the formulation of observations, documents and technical proposals by territorial authorities and citizens. This will allow a greater comparison between institutions. Given the importance and delicacy of the subject in question and precisely in order to have greater and wider participation, the amendment approved by MoVimento also extends the period of comparison of the national seminar, which also involves qualified stakeholders to deepen all technical aspects related to the national repository and the technological park, providing the extension to two hundred and forty days instead of one hundred and twenty. The territories, local authorities and therefore citizens will be able to participate more effectively in the decision-making process on these issues that impact the territories. Then there is the subject of digitization. The digitisation of our country has become a necessity and we can no longer afford to be trapped in bureaucracy. We need to simplify procedures in every area, so we are pleased that the amendment has been adopted which provides that the only communication to start works is sufficient to the municipal office responsible for the installation and adaptation of telecommunications facilities useful to bring fiber optics to schools and hospitals. [[Applause]] We have committed EUR 400 million to bring fiber optics to schools and we want this money to be spent and this infrastructure activated as soon as possible. A step forward was also taken for the electronic vote for the European elections, the parliamentary elections and the referendum. By next June the Ministry of the Interior will have to adopt an implementing decree to spend the funds allocated by the budget law 2020. Colleagues, you have to invest in technology to facilitate the electoral participation of Italians abroad and of the many citizens who study and work away from their residence. The work done in this regard and in general on digitisation - particularly on access to services with SPID - by Minister Pisano, whom I want to thank, was fundamental and I hope that the new Minister will follow the path he has outlined. There are many rules to improve the situation of citizens affected by the earthquake in central Italy and other areas of the country. However, I would like to stress a rule contained in the so-called simplification decree for which I personally fought in the Senate in the past, which is further improved with the measure under consideration. This is the extension to 31 December 2022 of the possibility of using reconstruction grants for agricultural and agro-industrial enterprises affected by the 2012 earthquake in the Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto regions. This is a necessary and necessary rule for the survival of many farms in the territories affected by the earthquake. Personally I know the realities of Modena, Ferrara, Reggiano and Mantua that have been affected by the earthquake of 2012 and are still in progress the iter authorization to the yards. Only for these territories are 124 million euros from European funds still standing in the current accounts bound for reconstruction. The extension at the end of 2022 to complete the work will allow the farmers concerned not to see that money go up in smoke. The zeroing of current accounts would have been a real stealth in the pockets of those citizens and could have led to the failure of many of these companies. Without our presence in this majority this measure would not have seen the light; the 5 Star Movement has always listened to the demands of the farmers and has committed itself to finding a positive solution. (14.42) (Following MANTOVANI). Finally, an important agenda signed by the Movimento 5 Stars was adopted by the Government as a recommendation this morning, to which were added PD and LEU (i.e. the intergroup that just formed on the occasion of the birth of the Government Draghi), to extend until 31 December 2023 the superbonus of 110%. [[Applause),]] in order to support the construction sector deeply affected by the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19 and at the same time generate long-term positive impacts on the national economy, national energy management and climate improvement. We all know the importance of this measure strongly supported by the construction and clean energy supply chains and by Italian small and medium-sized enterprises and we hope that the Government can implement this commitment. In conclusion, I address all the citizens who support us outside these palaces and who believed in Movimento 5 Stars so that we could bring here the courage of change, tenacity and resistance to face, even in difficulties and impossible challenges, the mission that we received from them. We are here, as citizens, to achieve results for citizens. Working in the government majority with a low head on rules and amendments is necessary to really change the reality of your everyday life. We are within this majority to continue with insistence on pursuing the points of our and your programme, because with our insistence we are certain that we will continue to achieve the right results like those we have achieved in the first measure of this Government, valuable results, bargaining with the political forces that make up the majority those measures to which we could not say no, because of course they are just, fair and indispensable for our present, for our future and for that of the next generations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u72	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u73	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, the decree-law under consideration, which arrived in the armored Senate and is due to expire, is one of the usual thousandprorogues, that is to say, the umpteenth greedy occasion on which, alongside measures made indispensable for the pandemic, the usual foxes took advantage to insert tactically dilatory measures to protect partisan interests or to put a piece of taviche faults of the public administration. Next, therefore, to measures such as the extension of the protected market of gas and light for families and micro-enterprises until the end of 2022, there are some really difficult rules for us to accept, such as the extension of two years of the cutting of public contributions to the publishing and the refinancing of Radio Radicale; the vital mandate for the presidents of health professional orders, which break the limit imposed in 2017 thanks to an amendment to the first signature of Congressman Sisto di Forza Italia, which provides the possibility of reconfirming to the president of order of the health professions without continuity for a further eight years. The extension for the permits for drills only until September is insufficient to implement the plan to identify the areas in which to prohibit mining activities; very current is the risk that the plan is not ready in that short time and that it will be possible to start drilling again without restrictions in the white semester. With regard to the extension to 2022 of the adaptation to fire-fighting measures for school premises, we are talking about rules that came into force in 2012, so from year to year we are asking for a postponement of implementation without anyone worrying to intervene to make them effectively enforceable. However, the economic situation in which we find ourselves is such that we do not feel able to make the right one pay for the unjust, denying importance to all those measures made necessary to counter the effects of the pandemic. For this reason, responsibly, the component that refers to "The alternative" has decided to abstain for this time from voting. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u74	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u75	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill no. 2101, of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law No. 183 of 31 December 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. To this end, I invite the senators present to take their seats and remember that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the centre of the hemicycle. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Fregolent is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Fregolent. PUGLIA, secretary, makes the appeal. Senators say yes: Accoto, Agostinelli, Aimi, Airola, Alessandrini, Alfieri, Anastasi, Arrigoni, Astorre, Lugussori Bagnai, Barachini, Bellanova, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Binetti, Biti, Boldrini, Bonino, Borghesi, Cantù, Casalati, Castaldi, Castellone, Cattaneo, Causin, Cesaro, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Conzatti, De Petris, Corti, Croatti, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Lucia, De Petris, Croatti The senators: Balboni, Barbaro Calandrini, Ciampolillo, Ciriani de Bertoldi, De Carlo Fazzolari Garnero Santanchè, Giarrusso Iannone La Pietra, La Russa Maffoni, Martelli Nastri Paragone, Petrenga Rauti, Ruspandini Totaro Urso Zaffini. The senators abstain: Abbot, Angrisani, Corrado, Crucioli, Garnet, Moronese, Ortis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2101, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 183 of December 31, 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 253 Senators voting 252 Majority 123 Favorable 222 Contrars 23 Absent 7]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 183 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u78	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, the justice and security of citizens and businesses must also be two priorities in this difficult period of pandemic and emergency. We certainly need to be concerned about preventing new infections and containing the virus, but we need to keep a watchful eye on the ground and prevent the spread of organised crime, which could benefit from the current emergency situation. It is news of yesterday, in fact, that the operation Never dream carried out by the Carabinieri of the provincial command of Rimini and the financiers of the provincial command of the Guardia di Finanza of Rimini has effectively disarticulated a criminal partnership based on the Rimini territory. The summits of the organization were composed of people of Calabrian origin who have shown predisposition to build a real association to criminals, with ramifications and economic interests also in other Provinces scattered for Italy. In all, there are 20 people investigated and 16 precautionary measures have been put in place, covering the following crimes: association with criminals, money laundering, fraudulent tax returns, fraud, usury and extortion. I think it seems obvious, from the long list of charges, that this criminal association is endemic. It is important to understand, however, that unfortunately this is only one of the many who live and thrive within the Italian State. I would like to thank all the forces of order that have achieved this result, but I would like to remind everyone in this House that the fight against mafias must be of primary importance to all of us. Especially in these months of pandemics and economic emergency, we must pay particular attention to the spread of criminal organizations, because the risk of infiltration is concrete, exactly as it is written in the last half-yearly report of the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate. Where there are crises and malaise, criminal organizations find fertile ground for rooting and growing. Emilia-Romagna is a particularly attractive region, given its economic strength and political weight. We must be prepared to take appropriate measures to prevent the spread of mafias. This means not only employing the Forces of Order, but above all giving real assistance to citizens and businesses, so that they are encouraged not to ask for help from criminal associations. We must be able to make effective decisions today, because tomorrow might be too late. The Mafia is not a problem that can be postponed until the end of the year: we must act and we must do it quickly, in common. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-300.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 2 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.41 a.m.
