ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 28 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u4	I communicate that, on 29 October 2021, the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Law No 121 of 10 September 2021 on urgent provisions for the investment and safety of infrastructure, transport and road traffic, for the functionality of the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, the Higher Council for Public Works and the National Agency for the Safety of Road and Motorway Infrastructures (2437).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u5	The next item is the joint debate on draft law No 2169, already approved by the House of Deputies, and documents LXXXVI, No 4, and LXXXVII, No 4. The rapporteur on draft law No 2169, Senator Stefano, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft European law for 2019 and 2020, presented by the Government on 21 September 2020, according to the provisions of Law No 234 of 2012, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies at first reading on 1 April 2021, is before this House today. It is now a traditional appointment in our parliamentary work, which allows us to harmonise our legislation with that of Europe, an objective in line with the clearly Europeanist tradition of our country, which is achieved by means of the European delegation law and the European law, which we are dealing with today. It should also be said that the presence of at least two transposition instruments each year has made it possible to diversify the way in which it is transposed, by removing and distributing the possible political difficulties on several acts, thus allowing the adoption of more laws, instead of a single Community law, which conform to our European law. In this context, the draft law under consideration, like all draft European law, also sought to facilitate the closure of several open or announced infringement procedures. This is a fundamental objective. By 29 September 2021, Italy's open infringement procedures amounted to 97, 62 of which were for infringement of EU law and 35 for failure to transpose directives. It should also be stressed that, to date, Italy has already paid EUR 751.6 million following the six sentences imposed by the Court of Justice of the European Union under Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (the so-called second sentence) for infringements of European Union law resulting from infringement procedures. It is therefore important that this measure allows further alignment of the internal system with the European one. The examination in the European Union's Political Commission has been full of proposals and discussions on issues from different sensitivities. A number of amendments have been accepted. The text before us today consists of 48 articles, divided into eight chapters, which amend or supplement national provisions in order to adapt their content to European law. In addition, during the examination in the Commission, several agendas were adopted which qualified in terms of content and related to different subjects, but all of which were of great political relevance. Following the adoption of the text in the Commission, further talks were held which revealed the need for further amendments to the text. These include, in particular, the amendment to Article 2 relating to the movement in Italy of cars registered abroad. The amendment contained in amendment 2.102, which I signed, stems from the political initiative of Senator Garavini, whom I thank for having also put the question I am addressing as rapporteur, after having spoken with the Government. Other amending proposals relate to rules on recycling, health advertising, information to qualified persons in the event of deprivation of the personal freedom of minors and former foreign-speaking readers in Italy. Having made these brief introductory remarks, I refer you to the description of the article, which I give to the Presidency to put to the record. However, I just want to remind you that our parliamentary activity in European matters imposes an additional burden on us because often the rules of our system are pre-defined at European level, and we must contribute to them in a proactive and constructive way. Moreover, the instrument for transposing legislation usually comes down to an agreement that the European institutions have already reached. That is why I believe it is important to raise awareness here too so that Parliament's active participation in the construction and negotiation of the European standard (the so-called ascending stage) is increasingly strategic, important and important. We need to be better and better at intervening at that stage. As a Parliament, we do so together with the President of the Council before every European Council. It is a model - I add and conclude - that should be replicated at the level of the individual sectoral councils, with the prospect of regaining a stronger role in the work of the Council and to give more support to the Government for the responsibility it has to bring our position in the Treaties and in the discussions that take place in Europe. As regards the wording of the draft law, I repeat that I refer to the written text of my speech, which I request to be able to submit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u7	He asked to speak to supplement the written report by Senator Candiani, rapporteur on documents LXXXVI, No 4, and LXXXVII, No 4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the consuntiva report is the main instrument for the exercise of Parliament's ex post control function over the conduct of the government in the decision-making bodies of the European Union during the previous year; while the programme report takes on a more political significance, as it reflects the general view of the current government on the future prospects of the European Union, and indicates its political intentions on the individual European dossiers. The text of the 2020 Consuntiva Report presents a comprehensive structure consistent with the legislative forecasts set out in Law No 234 of 2012, and is divided into five parts. The first is devoted to the development of the European integration process and institutional issues, and is divided into two chapters: the first concerns institutional issues with particular reference to the debate on the future of the European Union, the integration process, the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and future relations with the United Kingdom; the second concerns the coordination of macroeconomic policies and, in particular, the economic policies of the European Union. The second largest part of the document is devoted to measures taken under horizontal and sectoral policies, including migration policies, internal market, taxation and customs, business, research and development, environment, energy, transport, agriculture, cohesion policies, employment, social affairs, health, education and youth, culture and tourism, but also certainly justice and home affairs, public administration reform. The third part, on the external dimension of the European Union, describes the work of the Government in relation to European foreign and defence policy, the commitment in the Mediterranean area and in the Western Balkans area with African countries of origin of migration and the financing of the European Defence Fund, international trade, development cooperation and the European External Action Service. The fourth part is devoted to the communication and training of the activities of the European Union, in which it is also a question of promoting initiatives on the debate on the future of the European Union. Finally, Part 5 deals with national coordination of European policies, with particular regard to the activities of the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs, state aid coordination on infringement procedures, as well as anti-fraud measures and administrative cooperation in the internal market. It should be noted that the section on information requirements by the Government to the Parliament and the local and regional authorities, which included the activity of qualified information on the European legislative proposals, is no longer included, but it remains explained only in the table in Appendix Four. Finally, the report is supplemented by the five annexes: the first three relate to the Councils of the Union, the European Councils, the Union's financial flows to Italy and the transposition of directives in the reference year. The fourth annex - as mentioned - contains a list of resolutions adopted by the Senate and the Chamber of 2020 on legislative proposals and other European documents, without any longer reporting, as in the previous year's report, the arrangements for policy guidance and, above all, the description of the actions implemented by the Government to follow it up. In this regard, the importance of this lack of information from the Government towards Parliament is underlined. Ladies and gentlemen, the programme report for 2021 opens with a premise that refers to the exceptional nature of the situation resulting from the pandemic crisis by Covid-19, in which, however, the three pillars previously outlined by the European Commission, namely green deal, innovation and digitisation, social cohesion, remain the main objectives of the Union on which to base not only the recovery from the health and economic crisis, but also the new European integration project. The report therefore not only builds on the European Commission's work programme, which remains the guiding principle, but also integrates with the wider horizon of the Next Generation EU. Furthermore, the text of the report, as usual, is preceded by a summary setting out the individual positions and actions that the Government intends to take in practice, in relation to each of the policy areas of the European Union. In this regard, we recall the need for the Government to take part in all the political commitments and guidelines relating to Italy's participation in the European Union decided in Parliament and - I add - to commit itself to involving Parliament, especially on important policies such as those relating to tax reforms. Afterwards, the body of the programmatic relationship is structured in four parts, articulated within them in macrothematics. The report is enriched with sector statistics provided by Istat, in particular on green deals, economic growth, innovation and digitisation, active labour policies and migration. The first part - the development of the European integration process - is devoted to policies and initiatives aimed at strengthening the process of European integration both economically and institutionally, with particular regard to the need to give new impetus to European democracy, in which citizens have a greater role in the decision-making process and more active in the definition of priorities. It is also important to stress that this section is devoted to the macroeconomic dimension, with particular regard to the need to strengthen economic and monetary union, the union of markets and capital and banking union, as they fly to achieve stability and competitiveness and, consequently, to ensure a stronger role of the euro in the international scenario. In this context, the Government intends to focus its action on the objectives considered to be priorities for Italy, first of all the consolidation of the epochal turning point given by the decision to proceed with common debt issues, adopted by the Extraordinary European Council of 17 and 21 July 2020. Particular attention will also be paid to building new relations with the United Kingdom and to the participation of the Government in the Fit for Future platform, as part of Better Regulation. With the aim of reducing divergences and strengthening Europe's role in the global economy, the transition to a development model will be promoted, including adequate domestic demand, supporting internal consumption in the European Union through appropriate policy actions. The Government will promote, with more concrete growth and a reform aimed at the uniformity of all Member States, the European tax rules, with a view to fair, simple and sustainable taxation. It will also work on a reform of the EU budget, including through the introduction of additional own resources that can help finance the repayment of loans contracted under the Next Generation EU programme, which enhances the ability of institutions to implement European policies more effectively. The second part of the policy is the most comprehensive of the report, as, in line with European action, it develops the three policy pillars of green deal, innovation, digitisation and social cohesion. The basic strategy is to direct digital transformation for the benefit of citizens and businesses, while contributing to achieving the objective of climate-neutral Europe by 2050. Moreover, the European pillar of social rights will be the compass of Europe's recovery, with the precise aim of avoiding imbalances, strengthening the structural form of social equity. Within this framework, the Government will promote the adoption at European level of a sustainable development strategy and will outline the national strategy for 2030 biodiversity and the strategy from producer to consumer. It will also be engaged in negotiations on the European Climate Law, with the aim of ensuring that the financial instruments and policies identified allow the decarbonisation process towards the goal of neutrality in 2050. In addition, the Government will work on the implementation and revision of the legislation on energy taxation; it will continue to secure the educational heritage and the ecological conversion of the state heritage and will support the green transition, with regard to cultural, landscape and tourist heritage. The Government also believes it is committed to strengthening sustainable design, eco-labelling to limit waste production and achieve quality recycling to reduce climate-related emissions and increase the sustainability of products and consumption. Particular attention is paid to infrastructure in terms of improving the development and intermodality of the different transport networks constituting the national integrated transport system. The green transition will be accompanied by the digital transition. The Government therefore aims to transform Italy into a great technological laboratory, capable of projecting the country in the digital era through the promotion and enhancement of the capacity to innovate. This includes initiatives related to the digital market and the new competition rules required by technological developments, together with the identification of the necessary tools for protection and also for e- privacy. The development of digital skills and culture necessary for social and economic growth and the development of digital infrastructure as an integral part of the public sector modernisation strategy will be promoted. The dissemination of digital identity will also be essential to make the processes of public administration more efficient, reducing the time and costs borne by the citizen for the use of services; strengthening computer security and simplifying the overall management of the services provided. The Government therefore intends to ensure support for medical, immunological and pharmaceutical research and the digitisation of medical assistance and prevention services. A number of infrastructure investments in the construction and digitisation of public health structures will therefore be planned, with investments aimed at improving the capacity to respond, adapting governance of the health system to the needs. The digital enhancement of civil and criminal justice will also be pursued and the debate on the implementation of the European Commission's media action plan will be actively involved. In line with the objectives of the European Union's Digital Agenda, the Government will be committed on the following priority fronts: first, negotiation on the European Data Law (data act), negotiation on the European Digital Services Law, negotiation on the digital market act. It was then decided to devote particular attention to the theme of social cohesion, in two main directions: active labour policies and educational policies for the transition and promotion of common European values. On the other hand, the themes of the promotion of European common values are cross-cutting, ranging from the new European Pact on Migration and Asylum to actions aimed at eliminating gender inequality and supporting families and children. In this respect, the Government's commitment to achieving a balanced compromise that enhances the principle of solidarity within the regulatory proposals resulting from the new European Pact on Migration and Asylum, presented to the European Commission on 23 September 2020, is particularly important. It remains to be noted - and I will conclude, then handing over the rest of the intervention - that in Part Three, Italy for the external and foreign dimension of the European Union, is committed to addressing this issue by highlighting in particular the need for neighbourhood policies, macro-regional strategies, the strengthening of partnerships and the enlargement of the European Union from an infrastructural point of view, as well as the major issues related to the construction of a common foreign security and defence policy. It should be noted, President, that the overwhelming change in the international political scenario that we witnessed in August 2021, with the withdrawal of the US and NATO military contingents from Afghanistan and the consequent collapse of the political set-up of the Middle East, entails the need for a thorough review of the European Union's foreign policy choices and of Italy's objectives and priorities in the EU context. It is therefore necessary and necessary that in this Parliament's approval of the programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union these issues are widely and appropriately defined. On the other hand, the Italian priorities are still relevant, inter alia, to a trade policy that favours Italian exports, the strengthening of European defensive capacity, but also the promotion of international cultural relations aimed at the fight against illicit trafficking in cultural goods and their re-acquisition through diplomatic action, as well as the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage as a means of multilateral dialogue. At the end of the report, Mr President, I would like to express my hope to the Government that this parliamentary passage, which is provided for by law, will be dealt with in such a time as to make it consistent with events and acts. We are in fact approving this report with a delay which is not to be blamed on the current Government. However, it is important to ensure the synchrony between the relationship and the political season we are experiencing. We therefore hope that the government will speed up the presentation of the new reports. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u9	I note that the motions for resolutions to the programme and summary reports may be tabled before the conclusion of the general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u10	Mr President, from our point of view, European law must be an opportunity to go beyond strictly emerging measures in continuity and I, who always deal with health and care, do not intend to deny myself. Health has the objective of protecting not only the right to health in the strict sense, but also the right to well-being. There are therefore material supports that deserve to be evaluated and, as far as possible, supported to give people and families that serenity that will then reverberate also in the workplace, reducing the anxiety to reconcile the times of life and work with the certainty of having entrusted their loved ones in hands, as well as professional, also very attentive and sensitive to the humanization of educational processes, care and care. I have taken the matter a little 'from a distance hoping to arouse your curiosity about our project of video surveillance that, given its political-strategic value (always from our point of view), we intend to value in general discussion, the place of the ritual dealing with us with identical agendas, substitutes of the text that proposed the introduction of article 17- bis, strongly wanted with my colleague Giammanco. These acts of guidance commit the Government to promote a change of paradigm, overcoming the logic of obligatoryness, in terms of the development of reference standards in the field of educational, cultural and welfare security, which allow parents and their causes to entrust to structures of excellence their loved ones, be they minor in educational services and in childhood schools, be they elderly and disabled in socio-health and socio-assistant structures, according to principles of traceability, responsibility and performance assessment for their appropriate and qualified responsibility, under conditions of protection of psychophysical well-being. In view of the importance that has assumed in the majority of families the educational assistance, the teaching in presence and the need to accompany the process of government of the virus and its variants in the communities and structures dedicated to fragile not self-sufficient, that has cost so much in terms of pain and suffering because it is impossible to practice a direct human relationship with their loved ones and that certainly has aggravated the burden of responsibility and commitment to care and care, the video surveillance is to be seen as an instrument of protection and prevention not only of users, but also of operators and managers [[Applause]] This is according to a perspective of evolution of our welfare system, which proactively puts people at the centre, both as recipients and as actors, combining ethics and responsibility. To this end, opportunities for competitive growth should be developed by providing, in the context of the implementation of the PNRR, qualified training initiatives for staff working in services, schools and structures, with the aim of combining transparency and prevention. Again, to convince not to force [[Applause]] This is achieved by acting along the lines of safety and the marginalization of risks, aimed at protecting the most fragile and the weakest, in an intergenerational pact that strengthens the trust between the cared for and the cared for: therefore the educators, the teachers, the health and social health workers and the families. The confidence grows when it is shown that commitment, dedication and merit are objectively traced, adequately evaluated and rewarded with a system of qualification of excellence of the operators. We hope that this system will be included in a multi-annual plan for the prevention and promotion of safety in educational services and in childhood schools, in socio-health and social assistance facilities for the elderly and disabled, which provide for the installation of certified video surveillance systems, obviously closed circuit, encrypted and with audio-video recording. In this way, a verse would enhance the awareness that management methods are made available in a transparent way, and so would the results of its work, in order to make society aware, in the event of disputes, of the degree of efficiency and humanization of educational assistance and care; on the other hand, it allows families to freely choose between those structured with video surveillance - as a requirement of excellence, prevention and protection - and those who are not. Finally, as the funds are largely insufficient to cover needs, we thought of making them available by promoting a tax credit, which in fact makes up-to-date structures at no extra cost. The operators, both public and private, will certainly appreciate this opportunity on the basis of compensatory tax mechanisms. I hope that, for all the reasons I have stated, there will be a virtually total sharing of both agendas of the G20.100 and G20.101, substitutes for the supplementary provision that we had proposed in support of the measure under discussion, certain that the Government will prove consistent and timely implementation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u11	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like to focus on a subject taken up by some of the amendments, the exercise of dental activity, of which in particular Amendment 4104 (text 2), first signed by Senator Lorefice. It provides that dental activities may not be carried out by financial or commercial entities other than dental practitioners. This company structure is expected to be composed of at least the majority of registered professionals. It happens, however, that we have different structures held by financial entities, where specialists carry out de facto subordinate activities. This does not happen, for example, with law firms: it would be unthinkable for a capital company to open a law firm, using lawyers who directly follow clients in court with employment relationships of advice or de facto subordinates. This is because the first consequence we find in dentistry is the depersonalization of the performance: this is delivered, yes, by a dentist, but the invoice is issued by an entity that is financial or commercial. The guarantees for patients, apart from the unfair practices reported by several parties on the ethical level, are therefore weakening. From this point of view, the difficulties faced by professional bodies today in supervising these arrangements and commercial practices should be deepened. In the event of an unfavourable economic situation, as in the case of the pandemic, a purely commercial society closes and brings books to court, where instead the dentist or a dental society resists even the unfavourable period, because to that activity it binds its own life plan. We have seen various structures of this kind shut down in reality, leaving patients without assistance from today to tomorrow, even those who had already paid in advance to financial companies to which they had been obliged to turn. The second consequence is fiscal: VAT is often exempted on invoice and this cannot be done by this type of structure, not for the non-health component, least of all when the provision of the service was a person not registered with the register. Today, however, it is the State which loses considerable revenue every year, but it also suffers from the network of small and medium-sized clinics which are the subject of unfair competition. Be careful, here you are not banning the activity in corporate form, but you want the members to be also registered in the register and fall in the original spirit of Law no. 124. The possibility of funding that can make an important contribution is not excluded, but it is stated that the financial component cannot be dominant over the professional component. No European directive is violated, because the application of the so-called Bolkestein is explicitly excluded from the health professions. The exclusion concerns health services provided by health professionals to their patients in order to assess, maintain or restore their health conditions, where such activities are reserved for regulated health professions in the Member State where the services are provided, and the Community authorisation scheme may also include the obligation to be registered in a professional register in order to be able to pursue the activity. Finally, according to recital 56 of the same Directive, public health and consumer protection are overriding reasons of a general nature which can justify the application of authorisation schemes and other restrictions, including in express reference, for recital 40, to the protection of the recipients of the services. Even in fact, Mr President, it is clear that competition is not being violated; indeed, more balanced competition is being restored after, with the emergence of large dental chains, so many small and medium-sized dental studies have disappeared, concentrating the supply on a smaller number of subjects. I shall conclude, Mr President. For the same reason, no one is getting on the brink from today to tomorrow; it is strange that no one has raised the problem and that no one has ever wondered how many jobs have been lost in recent years precisely because of the start of dental chains and the closure of so many pre-existing studies; but there will be no employment crisis because two years of adaptation are being given, and therefore none of the existing structures are forced to close. Amendment 4104 (text 2) reopens a different perspective of inclusion in the sector to so many young dental practitioners who today have as their only goal to work - it has to be said, because in many cases the substance is reduced to this - under master, with honest wages inadequate for a graduate with responsibility for the health of people. And the patients also pay for this. I call on everyone to vote on the amendment and thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u13	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u14	Mr President, today we are entering into the substance of European law and, in order to avoid repeating issues that colleagues may be talking about or have already talked about, I would like to focus on some aspects, one of which - in my opinion very positive - is the adoption of the first-signed amendment by Mr Candiani, which in fact allows parliamentary monitoring of the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. I also consider this very important because I believe that, in the general feeling of the Italian people, one of the main concerns is that the spending capacity that our country will have is actually put to the ground. In summary, every six months - and not every two years - the Government will present a report on the state of implementation and Parliament will have a central role because the relevant Commissions will examine the six-monthly reports, monitor the correct use of resources and verify the satisfactory achievement of the targets, especially with regard to the provision of financial contributions and the assessment of the economic and social impact. To do this, the Commissions will use the instrument of hearings; therefore, the actors implementing the financial projects will be audited and the Commissions will make a report through which Parliament will take its fundamental right, i.e. to direct the Government where it considers it appropriate. Having said that, I would like to focus on two other aspects. I am referring in particular to two amendments, one of which I signed and one of which I am co-signatory. The first relates to the incompatibility of credit brokers with the role of real estate agents. The amendment seeks to delete this provision because, in my opinion, the Government cannot fail to take account of certain assessments. Meanwhile, it runs counter to the European Commission's requirements, which is why I do not want to run the risk of falling into some sort of infringement from this point of view, partly because the introduction of incompatibility is not based on the ratio within the European law of 2018, which has limited the incompatibility to those activities that involve a real, real conflict of interest; in particular, the activities of real estate agent should compromise third-party activity, which is a fundamental quality for the mediator to be third towards the parties. The co-worker of credit mediation companies, in addition to not re-entering for the type of activity - precisely because as activity does not compromise the third-party of the real estate agent - does not even pose a risk of conflict of interest, expected that they are already posed by the legislator and the supervisory bodies numerous guarantees for the consumer. Moreover, the activity of credit intermediation, in addition to being in itself compatible with that of mediation, as stated for all mediation activities, is exhausted in the mere reporting. That is why even more the consumer is protected, when this alert is part of that virtuous mechanism, which should allow the user of the mortgage to enjoy the best possible opportunity. So there is no activity that connotes non-tertiarity. In conclusion, I would like to say that if paragraph 1-a is not deleted, there will be a change in the model of real estate agency, in stark contrast to the EU directives, which aim at the creation of multi-service mediation agencies. Mr President, I should like to close my speech quickly by quoting Amendment 2,100 (text 2), concerning foreign plates, in which the Principality of Monaco has also been included. I come from Liguria, a region that has a border with France. If, therefore, our fellow citizens, who may be driving business machines in the name of the Monegasque entrepreneurs, in their return home they are being seized and must pay a fine of more than 500 euros, I think it is an aspect to be fixed. I do not know what will happen to this amendment and if there will be channels of mediation on the part of the government. If they were not there, I would formally ask the rapporteur to consider whether this amendment should be turned into an agenda, especially with regard to the Monegasque part. It should in fact in some way encourage the Ministry of the Interior to issue a very small circular, specifying that these workers are Italian and that - good for them, or unfortunately for them - they live in a border area, in which going back and forth becomes almost impossible. This battle that I am now pursuing is also shared by Mr Di Muro in the House of Deputies. I therefore hope that the Government will put an end, or a limit, to this injustice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u15	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pergreffi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now examining what is known as European law. However, I would like to point out a number of problems, which have not been fully dealt with in this measure, but which we must take into account, given and considering that our great opportunity, linked to the PNRR, depends on this. I am talking about something that puts families, businesses, and professionals in difficulty, namely the increase in raw materials, which should not be underestimated at all. It is astonishing, however, that at European level the opportunity has not yet been taken to put an end to this phenomenon or at least to consider in an appropriate way a problem which, moving forward, is bound to worsen. Just today Confesercenti denounced a reduction of the margin for the business sector of the commerce, for this year, pairs to 800 million euros, because of the high prices. I would also like to mention the NRP-related yards and the enormous difficulties that contracting companies are facing: the cost of materials increases and contracts remain firm. The solution to this problem cannot be delegated simply to the Italian Government or, even worse, to our local authorities, with regard to contracts already awarded, and it cannot only be borne by companies. We must try to calm down these difficulties and sufferings and find funding for the already open yards, so as not to compromise the smooth execution of current contracts. We must realise that, however, the contracts are no longer economically viable and that we will have a slowdown in public works, due to the fact that there are now no more competitive calls on the market. It is therefore necessary to try to find a solution, given that it cannot be the individual State that is responsible for it. We can, in fact, issue rules that provide for a review of prices, but with regard to the work related to the PNRR, we must, for example, consider that the price of copper has increased by more than 50%, that of steel by more than 130%, that of iron by 140% and that of polyethylene by 140%. Therefore, we must realise that this puts the PNRR's projects at risk, which already had their starting point. In this case, Europe cannot fail to meet these kinds of needs. It is not enough to think of national rules, but we need to act at European level, because otherwise economic revisions of contracts cannot stand. That is why I say that European law has perhaps already passed, because, if it does not take account of this type of increase, we really risk that, between the increase in bills, the increase in food and the increase in transport, all of this will no longer fit into the system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u18	Mr President, I am speaking on this law with regard to the profiles contained in it in the field of foreign affairs. That is why I am pleased that Mr Amendola, whom I know and who I can be sensitive to this very important part of the House, is here. A part that arrives in a historical passage in my opinion really relevant because of a whole series of facts and conjunctures that are happening on the international scene. Two in particular are the profiles that I wish to highlight, relating to our strategic alliances at geopolitical level and to the current state of the actions put in place with regard to security and terrorism. In particular, there is one point which I have repeated several times and which I want to reiterate today: our historic alliance with the United States. Why do I say that? At a time when international geopolitics is experiencing processes of relocation that seem almost anachronistic, with the appearance on the geopolitical scene of new superpowers, in this area our partnership with the United States can certainly benefit our location, not only political, but above all commercial. The relationship with the United States is historical (it is useless that I remember it); it is just today the League and our secretary Salvini were to commemorate the fallen of the Second World War in that of Pistoia, in particular our Brazilian friends. On the day of the dead, we went there to commemorate these fallen, who were at the side of our country. This is the groove and scenario in which we must move. It is clear that Italy does not have to choose, because it has already chosen its strategic partner. In my opinion, this report must be strengthened mainly within the European scenario; Italy must play its part in strengthening this alliance as well. We have been doing this for a long time; our Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, visited the United States about two weeks ago, to testify precisely to the importance of this link. On issues from which we as a country must benefit, in my opinion it is fundamental that semiconductors are taken up in the Chamber by Prime Minister Draghi last week. It is an issue on which Italy can do and say a lot at an industrial and commercial level, but on which we must do a great deal not only in terms of industrial marketing and research and development, but also and above all for an in-depth analysis of the input and training. The second important point I would like to touch on is security and terrorism. It's still an open question. We have said many times in this House that Italy is the frontier of Europe; Italy must be clearly seen as a kind of region with a special status in Europe, because we face difficulties that most European countries do not feel. In these days we are witnessing in our cities thousands and thousands of landings that determine the arrival in our country of characters not clearly identified, which also give life to episodes such as those that happened in Ospitaletto, Alcamo, Palermo and recently also in Piacenza. We have stressed this and believe that this same debate in a European context, highlighting our position and our role in Europe, can confirm the importance of Italy also with regard to this strategic framework. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u19	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u20	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is about the Senate Act 2169, concerning European law 2019-2020. It is a very important measure because it regulates our participation in the European Union with regard to so many aspects of the everyday life of all of us and on issues of general policy that, indirectly or very often directly, have serious consequences in our system. In the short time I have available for my speech, I will refer to some of the contents of the law, which I think are worthy of further consideration, but, in order to introduce ideas for the Assembly, I will also talk about some of the contents that are not there and which, in my opinion, should have been or should have been in the European debate as quickly as possible. I start with Article 1, which contains protection for workers. The subject of course is very topical; unfortunately the worst news, which we all obviously remember, makes us think of how important it would be to regulate the world of work so that there are no more dramas and mournings that recently and too often have struck us, marking in the body those who have suffered them, but also marking in the soul all of us, that we should have made sure that all this did not happen. We have a responsibility to create conditions so that those who exercise the constitutionally guaranteed right to remain with their work do not have to risk their lives. In this case the issue concerns foreign workers and the aim is to combat discrimination based on nationality. In my opinion, however, we cannot reason by compartmentalization and we cannot think of this without going with our minds to those forms of work which in the past, in this House too, have equated with new forms of slavery: in this case too, it is impossible not to think of the deaths in the fields of work, of exploitation, of the caporalate, of all those themes that unfortunately have cast long dark shadows on our productive realities which, because of the quality of the products and for the excellences they represent worldwide, should not be poisoned by any kind of suspicion. In this case, then, unfortunately, it is not a matter of suspicion, but of raw reality. In my view, therefore, a reflection on the issues of reception and migration policies should be initiated. I would remind you that the former Minister of the Interior is being tried for doing his duty and for trying to stop a phenomenon that has serious consequences for today's debate, therefore on Article 1 and the world of work. Obviously the current Minister of the Interior is not taking this risk, even if my request is not to risk all the Ministers, but rather not to risk any Minister being tried for fulfilling his duty. It would be good, then, for this issue not to be treated like a tin compartment. Turning to Article 2, we find provisions relating to benefits available to third-country nationals who hold certain categories of residence permits for work, study and research. In this case, a European infringement procedure is under way. I cannot fail to point out that the European Union is active when it comes to initiating infringement proceedings, especially against our country. I would like it to be as timely when it comes to complying with the obligations that may have been assumed in terms of relocation and reception, especially when these obligations come from commitments that the Member States take on spontaneously, in order to convince the borderers to accept far beyond their material possibilities, precisely in order to alleviate the burden that inevitably and drastically always affects those who are in a position to become the country of first reception. [[Applause]] Having said this, for me in Article 2, paragraph 1-b, there is an important definition that I literally refer to. "Only foreigners with a single work permit authorised to work for a period of more than six months are treated as Italian nationals, as well as foreigners with a residence permit for research purposes authorised to reside in Italy for a period of more than six months." I immediately expose the adverb exclusively to the fact that obviously the intention of the European legislator is to ensure that there is discrimination in the usability of rights that we would like to extend indiscriminately in this case to everyone, but that we are not in the material condition of being able to do. The minimum time span of six months and the residence permit implicitly indicate the need for discipline in the reception policy and all this is very far from what we are currently doing in our country. The European Union implicitly agrees with us when we say that this case must be regulated in a different way and should explicitly do so by entering into practice, thinking of specific measures and, above all, pointing out that it is always those few countries that pay the full price of this problem. Moving forward on what is contained in the act, I can only refer to an opinion expressed by the 9th Commission, especially because, in my opinion, it introduces an issue on which I would like to start a debate. In other speeches I argued that politics should be neutral in the technological approach; politics should highlight the problems and then let science, without specific indications, find solutions because they would be timely and more effective in this way. In the opinion of the 9th Commission, it is expressly stated that additional incentives should be provided for areas degraded, contaminated or intended for the cultivation of products for biofuels. At this point we introduce the issue of biofuels. It has been shown that using biofuels for internal combustion engines reduces emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere by around 90%. We therefore avoid going to aggravate a problem, which is just as topical as the price and shortage of raw materials and energy, moving towards a mobility solution that is not sustainable. Maybe for someone it is on the environment; in my opinion, it is not sustainable on factual and economic issues. The time has unfortunately run out; there would have been many other things to say, but I trust that my colleagues will tell you. I wish everyone good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u21	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the extension of the health emergency for the pandemic has created a strong instability on the markets, leading to an increase in prices worldwide of the main food commodities, which Italy has also suffered, where the negative effects of these increases have affected all the food supply chains. On the basis of the FAO index of food prices, which reached an average of 113.3 points in January, it appears that this trend has been followed by international prices for maize, followed by those for barley and wheat. This was an upward trend which also affected sugar and vegetable oils, whose prices have risen by more than 9% in a month, reaching the highest value since May 2012. Similar increases were also recorded in dairy products and meat. It is therefore necessary to adopt measures to encourage monitoring of the development of raw material prices on the market in order to stem these speculative actions that destabilise the market and create a very imbalance in the remuneration of inputs, to the detriment of the competitiveness of agri-food excellence. I am referring above all to those of Made in Italy, as we all know that our country is known in the world for its agri-food productions. In this area we can therefore make a difference compared to all other countries. However, Italy has long undertaken a process of transparency that has led it over the years to have the use of labelling on most foods produced with Italian raw materials (from wheat, to tomato, to milk). Today we risk losing what we have acquired with difficulty over the years, due to the failure to extend the ministerial decrees that expire at the end of this year, which in their time introduced the labelling obligation on food, thus bringing a very important benefit to all the Italian food supply chains. In this way, Italy can be an example for Europe. It is necessary to work to see the quality of the productions recognized, focusing exclusively on origin and transparency. We cannot allow other countries to indicate simplified routes, promoting the use of labels that assign a nutritional value to foods absolutely altered and not based on scientific findings, putting at risk the health of consumers and correct lifestyles based on the principles of the Mediterranean diet and on a daily consumption of natural and seasonal products. No to the nutri-score: let's say it loud and clear in this House. [[Applause]] Colleagues, Made in Italy is always under attack and see how much effort is made to defend our extraordinary prosecco. Today in Veneto a very important working table has been convened on this topic with the President of the Region and the Undersecretary Centinario. I believe it is vitally important to defend our productions and Europe must be a friend and not an enemy of our products. Farmers and small entrepreneurs must continue to compete on the market with panels that very often do not follow the principles of transparency and the rules that our country respects instead. Faced with this, the Italian market risks losing competitiveness. How can a farmer be competitive and up to date with investments in environmental sustainability if, with his earnings, he cannot even cover the costs of harvesting fruits and vegetables, breeding and any kind of cultivation? Colleagues, the citrus sector is emblematic, in which - paradoxically - Italy suffers an import of 19.8 percent from Africa. This is the result of an agreement signed in 2016 by the European Union with the States of the Southern African Development Community. As a result of this agreement, the citrus fruits of Africa have invaded the market, leading to the collapse of the selling prices of Italian products and a cry of pain on the part of farmers, especially in the South of our country. The problem, however, is not only of an economic nature, but also and above all of health and health. In fact, while Italian farmers must comply with strict Community rules, often fruit and vegetables are found on the market with very few guarantees from the plant health point of view and this is very serious. We must not underestimate the environmental impact linked not only to the transport of goods that are often found on the other side of the world, but also to the lack of respect, by many countries (such as China), of the environmental rules that instead are imposed on Italy. This is very serious. 16.15 p.m. (Before Bergesio). In order to promote the necessary economic recovery of Europe and of the individual Member States, it is therefore necessary that, alongside the definition of increasingly ambitious objectives that the European Union sometimes proposes to us, choices and criteria that can guide the economic system, especially the national one, towards a gradual, shared and sustainable ecological transition, also and above all in order to allow Italian and European companies to recover the commercial disadvantage compared to all the companies that compete globally. This is serious, also because these days we are witnessing an incredible battle over food. During this period the Eat-Lancet Commission has returned of great value to the cultural level: we think that in the study that made in 2019 a product that is a specific Italian, meat, was not even mentioned as a guarantee of health and health in the diets of consumers. We therefore call on Europe to promote the defence of culture, tradition, but above all the excellent cultivation of European and Italian farmers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u24	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, this is a particular moment: in Glasgow, COP26, the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, is taking place at this time; it is a time that will probably be remembered among the most important of this century for the decisions to be taken. Our greatest hope - when I say "our" - I mean of the 5 Star Movement, but also of myself, as a citizen and as a mother - is that it does not simply close with the 26th attempt to give life to the turning point that all humanity desperately needs. Certainly very well is doing the UN study group, announced by Guterres, which is analyzing the climate targets of non-state actors, practically companies. For the umpteenth time, the UN itself, being certainly ahead of everyone, risks being unheard of. Let me read a part of the speech by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, published today in the "Corriere della Sera": All countries must understand that the old model of development based on coal is a sentence of death sentence for their economies and our planet. And again, we must decarbonise now, in all sectors and in all states. That's why we keep talking about green new deal, a green deal. Says Guterres: "We must divert subsidies from fuels to renewable energy, and tax pollution, not people." This is very strong as expression, attention: taxing pollution, not people. What does that mean? We of Movimento 5 Stars on this will be careful. We will be attentive to entrepreneurs, who are an important part and are the protagonists of the possible resolution of the climate emergency. When we talk about the decrease of CO2, indirectly we are talking about circular economy, about all the CO2 that we have to avoid going into the atmosphere. We need to change the way we produce. However, many, too many issues remain open to those who do business. For example, when I go to companies very often I hear myself wondering: what benefits will my employees and my company have from taking the path of ecological transition? Wanting to take concrete and measurable actions of decarbonization, what tools do I have as an entrepreneur to defend myself from competitors who only make greenwashing? How can I be helped as an entrepreneur to create a new business culture based on sustainability, without being left alone? [[Applause]] If Europe wants to become the first carbon neutral continent in 2050 and more than halving its emissions by 2030, it has a very clear path to go, which consists of two complementary actions: increasing the penalty for harmful climate behaviour (so using fossil energy and dispersing energy must become economically and financially penalized behaviours) and encouraging companies that invest and set an effective emission reduction plan. So we do not leave the companies alone. We at Movimento 5 Stars will be behind small and medium-sized enterprises, as we are behind the citizens, because the two things - being attentive to the care of our businesses and the care of our community - go in the same direction. Another important thing is to talk about what is happening on the front of the high cost of energy and raw materials. Here too, we need to be vigilant in order to avoid speculation on the market and to create monopolies. We must defend the excellence of Made in Italy. We can implement the ecological transition, the real transition, the real transition, but economic sustainability goes in the same direction as environmental and social sustainability. I have just heard of the need to diversify technology. I completely agree, but there is a method, which is called life cycle assessment, which, if used in the right way, does not allow you to make greenwashing. It is therefore necessary to use the technologies that really reduce environmental impacts. Not always, however, certain studies lead to real results: you really have to be very careful about this too. Mr President, I shall end by returning to the document before us today. For us in the Environment Commission, Article 31 was very important, which deals with promoting the use of energy from renewable sources and which specifies that the sustainability criteria for biofuels and biofuels must be revised. These types of biofuels, according to the law not only of the circular economy, but also of the bioeconomy, will not be sustainable if they do not meet some necessary and important criteria. The 5 Star Movement will continue as always to ensure that this ecological transition is real, because we do not have time to lose, as the Heads of State who are now working at COP26 do not. Unfortunately, we cannot fool ourselves: if we want to move forward with an economic model - I am speaking as an economist - we must protect our common home, our environment and our natural resources. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u25	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will only focus on two issues, one of which complements what the rapporteur has already said regarding infringements and may also be of interest to the colleague who has just spoken. Firstly, the largest number of infringements are focused precisely on the energy and environmental transition, i.e. on the ecological transition. If the total number of infringements is 82, the number of infringements related to the ecological transition is 24. Secondly, all this does not go to cavalry. To date, for the six infringements already imposed, we have spent 790 million euros, which paid the general treasury: the State paid them. It would be useful to check where they insist because many are regional. For example, of those six (for which, I repeat, we paid EUR 759 million), three are in the environmental field, for waste in Campania, illegal landfills and urban waste water treatment. We are always talking about ecological transition, green and environment, but a bit of order at home might be useful, partly because it is not dependent on international agreements, but only on us. I would therefore like to add, for the sake of complete information only, the very few figures mentioned. The second issue that must really concern everyone, the Government and Parliaments, is the use of PNRR funds. In the period 2014-2021 we had a package, between national and European, of 71 billion, but we have spent or committed less than 30 percent, in particular Regions. If it gives me so much and we do not find a solution, it will mean that these same Regions will not be able to plan, invest and report the mountains of financing coming from Europe. It is always said sin without sinner, but I believe that colleagues Members and senators from these regions should take charge of helping local administrators to get out and come out with projects that are not to be thrown into the basket immediately, but profitable. I am not talking about fraud, because it is another chapter, but I wanted to point out the infringements, which we could resolve quickly enough, and the use of the funds which, as far as I know, I find very worrying. I do not know how it can be resolved, but certainly many of these Regions, including Basilicata, Campania and Sicily, must be helped in some way, because we cannot find ourselves in a few months to say that we have not been able to use the funds and have to return the money. It is a bad policy not only of those Regions, but also at national level. We need decisive, perhaps radical, interventions, but we cannot allow time to pass, one day after another, without putting our hands on the matter. The 14th Commission had already had a dedicated subject for discussion; work on the Structural Funds has not been completed, but in the meantime the other possibility has arrived, which, if it gives me so much, we will let go, just as we did with the Structural Funds, which were much smaller; let alone, if the figure is higher, what we will ever be able to do. (16.29) (Follows BONINO). I do not want to repeat the points in the President's report, but it is clear that it should concern a debate on Europe not only European law, but in the light of what can come of it. It is, however, a difficult situation to predict, with Merkel coming out and Macron in the election campaign. Today it's a little hard to get bocca firm. We ourselves do not know what will happen in February. However, I have the concern that, while we are distracted by something else, albeit important, this European estate, which is our only weapon of salvation, will also emerge. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u27	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, European law is always very complex: so many points of observation could be extrapolated, because in some way it covers all fields of legislation. I would like to focus at this moment on three particular aspects, the first of which concerns precisely the European Union design that we have in mind. I am referring to the passage we have mentioned several times, so from a Europe closely linked to commercial and economic interests, which are fundamental, we can move on to focus our eyes on the Europe of people, in this concrete case on the mobilization of people within it, as bearers of competence, culture and professional profiles high enough to guarantee them the possibility of moving where they find not only the work they are able to do or want to do, but also the possibility of building profiles of research and innovation that should make Europe the leading continent in relation to the evolution we are witnessing. Such situations are going through the United States, China, the East and the West, so as never to forget the African continent, with all its problems. The Europe of Rights should also really be that of freedom, so the continent that allows its professionals to move very easily. All this does not always happen and I was very impressed by the passage of the bill in which we refer to a very particular segment of the profile of training, which is that of traineeships. We know perfectly well that internship is that middle ground that often separates theoretical study from real and concrete entry into the world of work. In scientific faculties, how could it be that of medicine - to name just one of the many - the internship is the moment of the transition to the concrete application of ideas to concrete situations. I hope with all my heart that tomorrow morning we will be voting in deliberating the draft law on rare diseases and I must say that today it would not be possible to imagine such a law without having a European perspective, precisely because the rarity of the patient imposes an observation on a wider and more articulated territory. To do this, however, we need to imagine a mobilization of young doctors, nurses, researchers and scientists, so that they can move where there are centres of excellence and reference. This possibility must be strongly implemented. Many times it has been said that the European Union has been built to a large extent, from an ideal and valuable point of view, by the generation of Erasmus, that is, by the young Europeans who during the university years had the opportunity to follow their studies by moving through the different university centres. I think we can take a step further and go further, going towards that proximity to the professional work that is where in fact the most interesting and brilliant results in research mature. I would also like to mention an article in the draft European law which I find particularly interesting at the moment. I am referring to what, with regard to scientific research, examines, thinks and reflects on the experimental model for which the animal is used. We know that a few days ago many of our colleagues really met a great disappointment, because there was no such impact in terms of strong attention to and respect for the animal world (it referred at that time to forest fires and therefore also to other problems). However, we also know that Italian legislation in terms of scientific research, with regard to the use of the animal model, still reflects, on the one hand, a great sensitivity, but, on the other hand, not a few prejudices. Yet the draft European law we are about to vote clearly states how important it is for us to take a position similar to that of other European countries, because there is no research that is not European and multicentric and for which there are no shared and similar criteria. In this specific case, it is said that Italy runs the risk of being really cut off from this piece of the world, if it insists with a much more rigid regulation than that of other countries. The ethical criteria concerning research with the animal model are very well known to all: the lowest possible number of animals must be used; in every way avoid their pain and suffering; have a research project worthy of the experimentation that is being carried out. There is nothing to invent, but only the great intelligence of the scientific world, because there is the experience and everyday life of a service that addresses, through this, the possibility of identifying everything that can be translated into return measures. I am thinking, in order to relate to the theme of rare diseases, orphan drugs and experimentation that necessarily requires a model that cannot only be tissue, but must be vital: we need this. The European law on the point speaks a language that Italian researchers can really do their own, that they feel good, right and effective and that I hope with all my heart we will be able to vote with great freedom. If this whole part, which concerns the excellence of intelligences moving around Europe in search of highly innovative solutions, tells us a lot about how Europe can be the truly powerful box of development and the engine throughout the world, on the other hand, Europe's attractiveness tells us how much it is necessary for us to reflect again - also very clearly in the law - on the capacity for reception and acceptance in terms of immigration policies. These require a look that we have often felt as critical and hostile to us, as if Italy were the only contact person in this model. Do they land where? Italy. They're coming where? Italy. Where is it hard to leave? From Italy. European law tells us that we need a European perspective that looks at immigration with the capacity to grasp where there are job opportunities and all the possibilities of social inclusion and family reunification to which reference is made in the norm. All this will require the possibility of imagining a more just world. At this moment, in Glasgow there are the greats of the Earth, who were in Rome until a few days ago and there they moved en bloc to participate in the Conference convened by the United Nations to talk about environment and ecology. The first environment, the first ecology that we care about, is precisely the human one, which looks at the habitat of each of us as the context in which it is possible to develop first, more and better the talents of all, that are those of intelligence, that decline in a technical-scientific key, but are also those of the heart, solidarity and inclusion. In conclusion, Mr President, European law must be seen and evaluated from the perspective of the Europe we want, which is not just that of jams, but which takes account of them, neither only of technicalities nor of weapons. We talk about everything in this law, but we want a Europe that is - especially and more than anything - more human, that of the human rights of all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u29	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr Amendola, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on climate change and high energy, two issues that are very closely linked to each other and at the heart of the European and global political agenda. After the outcome of the G20 and the COP26 in Glasgow, still underway, the path of decarbonisation of the planet appears very uphill, intended to contain at the end of the century the temperature increase of 1.5 degrees to combat climate change. From the G20 in Rome and from COP26, events - alas - snubbed from China and also from Russia, disappears 2050 as a date to achieve climate neutrality. Of course, the importance of strengthening global efforts to achieve zero net emissions of climatic gases has been reiterated, but it is specified that this must take place within or around the middle of the century, while China and Russia reaffirm neutrality in 2060 and Indian leader Modi has iced all indicating for his country 2070, with good peace of Greta. Yesterday there was a clear commitment to banning coal as soon as possible, which means that natural gas still has an important role to play. In the European Union, therefore, we need to consider whether to continue in the almost solitary drive to decarbonise - perhaps we are in the company of the United States - by risking massacres of our companies, that is to say to see them relocated without having any benefits for the environment and for climate change. We must be aware that the EU's race to decarbonise and deny the role of gas in the transition, without wanting to invest more in strategic infrastructure, has also led to heavy energy. We are at an alarming situation, which risks being structural. The cost of energy is out of control and is no longer compatible with the operation of intensive gas companies, so as to determine and create the suspension of activities and productions. The interventions made by our government are good, but they are not enough. We are in danger of registering the first victims of the ecological transition: for example, Murano's glassworks are at risk of stopping production, thus knocking down one of the most important sectors of Venice and its tourism, and I fear that EU recipes on expensive energy, that is to say speeding up only on renewables to get out of this drama and to prevent other shocks in the future, risk hurting us even more. With photovoltaics and wind, we're not going anywhere. [[Applause]] The big problem is that these renewable sources are not programmable: they produce only when there are sun and wind, it is very simple, and the storage systems are far from being technologically ready, developed and distributed on the territory, not to mention the necessary and costly development of transmission and distribution networks and electricity charging infrastructures. In short, Europe's recipes presented so far frankly do not convince us, but also the implementation of the toolbox proposed by the European Commission for common gas purchases to contain expensive energy I fear that, by intervening on the global market and on the free competition of global players, it will not, at least shortly, bring to the desired effects. For these problems, therefore, the ecological transition must be gradual and determined and therefore pragmatic, environmentally, economically and socially sustainable, without ideological pressures that risk bringing our businesses to their knees. Beware of the easy enthusiasm for renewable suns, for the immediate no to fossils, for the only green hydrogen, for the only electric mobility and for the absurd plastic free. Above all, the ecological transition must be shared: there is no way that Europe, which is responsible for only 9% of CO2 emissions, is the first in the class always, setting the goal of being carbon neutral at 2050, and instead other countries, starting from China, which, with 28% of CO2 being the greatest polluter of the Planet, do not make the same commitments, as confirmed in the G20 and Glasgow. [[Applause]] The ecological transition must ensure the sacrosanct principle of technological neutrality, because all technologies that contribute to decarbonisation must be used and the energy dependency of the European Union and Italy must be reduced in the ecological transition. That of our country - I remember - for gas is 95 percent, also employing more of its natural resources and investing to diversify the sources of supply to ensure the security and resilience of our energy system. In short, we must have the humility to admit that the energy sources to decarbonise during the transition are low-carbon natural gas and zero-emission nuclear, on which we cannot lose research and development, at least on the fourth generation. [[Applause]] Therefore, in the European package on sustainable finance, which will have to be closed in December next year, in the criteria of taxonomy of green investments, in agreement outside oil and coal, but we must reconsider the strategic accompanying role of natural gas in the ecological and energy transition, both in order to reduce energy costs and in order to ensure stability, security and resilience of the energy system. A reflection must also be made on the Fit for 55 package, formalized in July by the Commission, which has many critical issues: the extension of the Emissions trading scheme (ETS) to other sectors, such as maritime transport and road transport and construction; the elimination of environmentally harmful subsidies (which means other taxes) and especially the ban since 2035 of internal combustion cars, with the sole electric model chosen by the German automotive industry, represent a critical issue. This prediction is absurd. It is wrong to get into a tense leg and cancel the Euro 6 cars of the latest generation or Euro 7, which are the subject of research and development, those fueled with low carbon, biomethane or hybrid fuels, also able to reduce CO2 emissions, for the benefit of the electric sun classified - but falsely - zero emission vehicles. [[Applause]] It is hypocritical to still measure emissions to the exhaust pipe; the electric also pollutes in its life cycle from batteries, today for 70 percent of Chinese production and 70 percent charged with electricity produced from fossil fuels. The ban on internal combustion cars undermines the principle of technological neutrality and destroys the Italian mechanical sector, the automotive and refining sectors and deceives on the protection of the environment. That is why our Government must fight in Europe to ensure that, in order to achieve the ambitious objectives of sustainable mobility and to standardise emissions accounting within the transport sector, the principles of the life-cycle method are adopted for the assessment of the real environmental impacts of vehicles associated with the consumption of individual fuels, including manufacturing and end-of-life processes. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one final comment. In the ecological and energy transition, the role of critical minerals will grow, as reported in the recent report of the International Energy Agency. Electric vehicles, photovoltaic systems, wind farms and accumulators require much more minerals than their fossil fuel counterparts. As can be seen from the same relationship of the Agency, compared to a conventional car, a typical electric car requires six times the mineral inputs; compared to a gas plant, a photovoltaic system requires seven times more mineral resources; an on-shore wind plant nine times and even an offshore one. In short, the transition to what is considered a clean energy system will therefore result in a significant need for copper, lithium, nickel, manganese, cobalt, graphite, zinc and rare earths, for which so much energy is needed and so much waste is produced. The promotion and development of the various technologies for the implementation of the European Union's strategic policy on decarbonisation should therefore be accompanied by a careful analysis of the environmental, economic, social and - above all - geopolitical impacts, with regard to the availability, costs, supply and foreign dependence of metals, critical minerals and rare earths, which are necessary in the transition based on the increased electrification of consumption. In short, let us avoid with the ecological transition that the centre of gravity of world geopolitics moves too far towards China. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Ricciardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, European law is the annual appointment by which the State, in fact, adapts to the European Union's legal order. I would stress that it adapts, because it is undeniable that, after the pandemic, several paradigms have changed, not only to allow Member States to adapt to a more just, inclusive, inclusive and shared Europe, but also to allow Europe itself to adapt to processes of change that have already become necessary well before the pandemic: I am referring to when the subprime mortgage crises and the so-called spread crisis broke out. The 5 Star Movimento has been and wants to continue to be an active part of these changes of scenario and time will be gallant man in decreeing how important the Government Count II, who, on the occasion of the pandemic, interpreted and addressed the processes of European change. It is a fact that, again in April 2020, the European Union considered it possible to respond to the Covid emergency with the worn-out and insufficient instruments of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the European Investment Bank (EIB) loans and the then-born Sure Plan. History will be more and more able to recognize the importance of the action of the Government of Count II when, with eight other countries, it has been able to convince those European more rebellious, the frugal ones in the head, to put in place a lot of resources much more incisive and financed by the issuance of common European debt. This is exactly what happened with the recovery fund, then evolved into the Next generation EU, at the base of which there are real Eurobonds, finally taken off after decades of wishes, followed by the first proposal of Eurobond, which was advanced in the mid-1990s by Jacques Delors. If today we have the Next generation EU and the Eurobonds, it is because the drama of the pandemic has accelerated the adoption of solutions that were already improcrastinable, but it is also because the Government Count II and all the Movimento 5 Stars have been able to interpret the enormous opportunities that this dramatic hairpin of history has put before us. Hence the suspension of the Stability Pact, which will certainly no longer be recovered in the harmful forms in which we have known it, as confirmed by the current Prime Minister Draghi. This led to the suspension of rules that were not always consistent with State aid, which all too often in the past, rather than guaranteeing beneficial competition, have unnecessarily choked the economy. This led to a change in the ECB's borrowing rules, which has rightly made massive purchases of government bonds, far beyond the harmful capital key rule, i.e. the purchasing rule proportional to the share held by each Central Bank in the ECB's capital. This latter change has shown, if by chance there is still a need, that it is certainly not a high public debt that leads to an increase in interest on government bonds and spreads, but it is the Central Bank, with its monetary policy more or less expansive. It is therefore a purely political decision to determine the level of rates and spreads. Today, with a high public debt, Italy is close to the historical minimum of interest rates on government bonds and has a level of spreads with German bunds really low. I repeat: not only the Movimento 5 Stars, but also and above all the Movimento 5 Stars, in times not suspicious, has asked what is happening now, after the pandemic, that is to continue to give vision and perspective to a change that cannot and must not sand. We need to move forward towards a reform of the Stability Pact, within which we will increasingly call for the separation not only of green and social investment from the calculation of the deficit in relation to GDP, but also of the co-financing of the Structural Funds and the expenditure related to the PNRR and of everything that allows the implementation of European funds. [[Applause]] We need the Central Bank to continue to protect the European economies, as the central banks in the rest of the world do, in order to achieve the objective not only of inflation, but also of full employment and social progress, as set out in Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union, as set out in Article 127 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We need to make the Next Generation EU structural, which gives substance to the concept of a new Europe of solidarity and inclusiveness. No one wants to use the levers of debt as if it were nothing, and there would be more, but after the pandemic the Movimento 5 Stars will fight to make even clearer what has manifested itself with the Covid, that is that there are no moral connotations in the public debt. Today the debate about debt use, made necessary by the pandemic, after the unforgivable inertias followed by the subprime mortgage crisis of 2008 and that of the spread of 2011, invests the whole world. In recent days, European Commissioners Dombrovskis and Gentiloni have made it clear that Europe will need public-private investment of 650 billion a year to deal with the various transitions (energy, digital). In the awareness of the need for these huge investments, even Klaus Regling, the German director of the ESM, one of the most brilliant manifestations of the hopeful old austerity, has put forward the proposal to correct the Stability Pact, in order to allow greater use to be made of debt. In Italy, Prime Minister Draghi, after giving notice to the previous Government that he had built a fundamental network of protection and revival of the economic and productive fabric, at the recent press conference on NADEF said that with the pandemic they proved to be very important and existential needs for Europe itself, which can only be satisfied by the public sector. The Movimento 5 Stars of the future - I said - wants to give perspective to all this and that is why we are convinced that, in addition to following the change of the European economic paradigms, Italy must and can equip itself with innovative tools within it. We must therefore be able to put large resources into the economy, without necessarily triggering debt. And this is where our proposal for a sort of internal self-financing plan, which is absolutely consistent with the European framework, is, first and foremost, aimed at exploiting the enormous success achieved with the 110% superbonus. In fact, we want to allow more and more tax credits to circulate, considering that this option is a fundamental step. [[Applause]] We intend to combine the objective of digitalisation with that of putting resources in the economic circuit without food debt and of immediately making the same tax credits available to businesses and citizens. The introduction of the 110% superbonus in fact, a measure conceived and wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars, represents an unmissable opportunity, considering among other things that the mechanism on which it rests, that is the transfer of tax credits, has been extended to other bonuses and can be further extended starting from the tax credit Transition 4.0, which would prove to be a formidable superbonus companies. We need a public investment bank, which can not only directly finance large and small projects, but also increase lending to the real economy, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises in difficulty. The key to this operation could be the Central Mediocredito, which has already joined the Bari People's Bank and could also join Monte dei Paschi di Siena, in order to be able to receive loans at a negative rate from the ECB. Finally, we want to imagine some sort of savings accounts, within which citizens, in a completely voluntary way, could channel part of their savings, investing in government bonds. Today, complicit in the fears triggered by the pandemic, the deposits of the Italians exceeded a billion and 800 million euros, going practically to equalize the level of our GDP. Overall, by the way, the savings of Italians are around 4 billion and 500 million euros, which also include equity and bond investments and mutual funds. By offering a fair remuneration to government bonds and the possibility to uninvest whenever you want, savings accounts could offer an excellent investment opportunity for households. In addition, it could be envisaged that the same government bonds in which resources are invested in savings accounts may be used as a means of payment for goods and services, of course between operators with savings accounts. These proposals are all condensed into a bill at my first signature, which is now being examined by the 6th Commission here in the Senate, with other thematic bills, demonstrating how on the point the Movimento 5 Stars brought together other political forces. This plan could lead Italy to put large financial resources into the economic system, with an operation perfectly compatible with the European Treaties. It takes courage and Europe, which by means of European law calls for us to comply with its rules, cannot fail to have them in order to radically change those same rules. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u33	The joint general debate is closed. I call Senator Stefano, rapporteur on draft law No 2169.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u34	Mr President, I take this opportunity only to thank the structure of the Commission, but especially my colleagues and Mr Amendola. We have done a job that is not always simple, but rather complicated, because the issues involve significant topics, but we have almost always found a point of mediation that I believe is compatible with the main objective of bringing our legislation into line with the European one. There are many infringement procedures against us; we have to try to resolve them. That is exactly what we have put in place. My speech is therefore intended only to thank all my colleagues and the structure of the Commission, as well as Mr Amendola, undersecretary for the work he has done. We are now clearly relying on the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u35	I call Senator Candiani, rapporteur on documents LXXXVI, No 4, and LXXXVII, No 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u36	Mr President, as Mr Stefano has already said, I also support the Government's actions, as well as the debates that have taken place in this House on action at European level. To sum up, the importance of following up the commitments made in Parliament must be reaffirmed by the Government. Let us remember that in the report which has been submitted to the documents by the Government, for the first time, there is essentially a lack of information to Parliament about the actions carried out and the subsequent actions. It is therefore even more important, as the various interventions that have taken place have pointed out, to be sure that the commitments made in Parliament have then been followed up at European level.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u37	I would like to inform the Presidency that the following motions for resolutions, the texts of which are distributed: No 1, signed by Senators Stefano, Candiani, Lorefice, Nannicini, Giammanco, Ginetti, Bonino, De Petris and Steger, No 2, signed by Senator Fazzolari and others. I call on the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to indicate which of the motions for resolutions that have been tabled, the Government intends to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u38	Mr President, I too would like to thank you for the excellent work done by the 14th Commission, by President Stefano and all members. We're talking about a very intense job, as we know. The data on infringements, which will now fall due to the transposition of the directives of the delegation law, tell us that it is also structural work what we must do at a time when it is clear that we must all work - as Senator Candiani also pointed out - for changes at European level, but also at the level of legislation. I say without any presumption to Senator Candiani - who is now engaged in major discussions - that perhaps it would also be appropriate, in the next steps, to come to an amendment of Law No 234 of 2012, because the nine council chains that work under European affairs policy need to meet parliamentary work in its different facets, not only those related to the European Council, but also in the negotiations. In so many speeches, such as that of Senator Arrigoni and others, great issues of European affairs policy have been mentioned, which I believe should be put to the system with a reform of Law 234. To get to the work we are going to do now on the amendments, I would like to thank all the members once again. There are still no positive opinions on certain amendments, but on this I believe that the next acts of the Government, from the competition law to the budget law, will help a solution. With regard to opinions on resolutions, the Government accepts motion for resolution No 1, signed by Senators Stefano, Candiani, Lorefice, Nannicini, Giammanco, Ginetti, Bonino, De Petris and Steger.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u39	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 144- bis (7) of the Rules of Procedure, in the face of several motions for resolutions, the one accepted by the Government, to which each Senator may propose amendments, is voted first. Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for a resolution No 1, the 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to it is now in force. The final vote on the draft European law, the vote on any amendments tabled to motion for a resolution No 1 and the final vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at the end of the joint explanations of vote. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u42	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, we are asking for a short 15-minute suspension to be taken together with the Government to consider certain amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u45	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are not in favour of suspension. We believe that the measure has arrived in this House after a reasonable time of deepening. I would therefore ask you and the House to continue the vote on the amendments without a suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u48	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since there are some amendments on which we need a comparison with the Government, I think that a minimum of suspension is necessary and should not be denied. If the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars do not agree, we ask that we proceed with one vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u49	I put to the vote the proposal for suspension, made by Senator Garavini. It's approved. I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m.22 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.07 p.m. and resumed at 527 p.m.) Pending the decisions to be taken, I would propose that all the amendments be presented, so that we move forward. I do not see any opposition to this, so let us proceed with the examination of the articles on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u50	Mr President, there is probably a reasoning on a possible rewording of Article 4 of a part of which, in fact, I have proposed deletion with amendment 4,100. This article, where it is reworded as I expect, as I hope and as I think it is right to do, should finally avoid the possibility of incompatibility between real estate brokers and credit brokers. This incompatibility does not have a real logic and I believe that we would incur an infringement of this. When we talk about the Ombudsman's third-party rights, we refer to an obvious third-party nature and not to an incompatibility such as to determine a different condition from which the market is distorted. From this point of view I expect and hope that we are not hostages of either position, but that we are only responding to a criterion of justice, which goes towards the non-incompatibility between the credit broker and the real estate broker.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u51	Mr President, it was a debate in the Commission on an amendment, 4104, tabled by Senator Lorefice. I married him and wanted to bring him back in order to give him more strength in this House. It concerns the activity of dental practitioners in associated form. At present, as we have conceived the European standard, we allow this activity to be carried out by companies, without imposing limits on the participation of professionals. What is required with the amendment to our review is that the business be allowed in company form, but in the form of companies between professionals. For our order this means that necessarily at least two thirds of the capital must be held by dental practitioners and a third can instead be in share capital. If this is not respected, we would have purely business activities, lucrative - there is nothing wrong with this - which, however, would carry out dental activity, a very important and sensitive activity, with its employees carrying out that function. At this stage of health emergency we have understood the importance of not speeding up processes that then go to the detriment of citizens; therefore the amendment in question tends in fact to provide a guarantee for citizens, providing that dental activity can only be carried out in a company between professionals.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u54	STEFANO, rapporteur on draft law No 2169. Mr President, just to make it clear that it was my intention to withdraw Amendment 10,105 in the name of Senator Margiotta.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u55	Amendment 10.105 has been withdrawn. However, Amendment 10,102/1 remains.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u56	Mr President, I would also like to take advantage of Amendment No 18,100 to talk about an amendment tabled by Brothers of Italy and approved by the Commission. Thanks to the amendment of the Brothers of Italy, the illogical ban on ammunization 9 for 19 that Italy, the only country in the world, had been going on for thirty years. An illogical ban, aimed at civil and sports activity that has penalized private security operators forced to buy weapons with an increase in cost and with huge penalty for our athletes. Italians excel in all shooting activities, from dynamic shooting to IDPA, and in all the disciplines in which we boast, as a team or in personal competitions, European champions and world champions, but we have so far had the illogical prohibition of being able to use the ammunition used throughout the rest of the world. For this reason it was impossible until today for Italy to organize international competitions, our athletes were forced not to use the same tools as all the others. Thanks to the amendment tabled by Brothers of Italy and finally approved in the Commission, the ban on ammunition 9 by 19 lapses.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u57	Mr President, paragraph 525 of the 2018 Budget Act has better defined the contours of the health advertising legislation previously introduced by the so-called Bersani Act. Over time there had been misleading advertising drifts, just remember that we talked about discounts on mastoplastics made within a given date, or discounts equal to the half of the years. Paragraph 525 of the aforementioned law had put the order in this legislation, however the norm was reported to the European Commission, evidently by some companies or associations that used to move with this type of advertising, and an EU Pilot procedure opened, which led to a structured dialogue between Italy and the European Union. From this structured dialogue we have reached the rapporteur's amendment 30.0.100, which is the result of this comparison, which is absolutely acceptable if not for the last line of the text. In fact, the Court of Justice of the European Union has repeatedly expressed itself in judgments which distinguish health and commercial matters from advertising. With the sub-amendment 30.0.100/1 we propose to delete the words: ', which may result in improper use of health treatments', because to condition the lawfulness of health advertising to the appropriateness of the subsequent treatment does not find justification, it is a virtually impossible proof to obtain and risks being the source of a huge dispute, in fact by preventing any kind of control that is to protect - I remember - the health and free determination of the patient.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u58	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment tabled on Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u59	Mr President, I am against Amendment 1.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u60	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u61	Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Fazzolari, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments tabled on Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u62	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw Amendments 2,100 (text 2) and 2,101 otherwise the opinion is against, while I support Amendment 2,12.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u63	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u67	RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 2,100 (text 2). We have tabled an agenda resulting from the transformation of the agenda, which is for the attention of the Government and the rapporteur. I also withdraw amendment 2.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u68	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda for G2.100, resulting from the transformation of amendment 2.100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u69	Mr President, I am in favour of the G2.100 agenda, in the following rewording:
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u70	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u71	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.100 (text 2), will not be put to the vote. Amendment 2,101 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.102, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u72	Mr President, I am against Amendment 3,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u73	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u74	Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100 tabled by Senator Fazzolari, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u75	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal of amendments 4,100 and 4,101 and 4,102 (text 2). I also call on the authors of these amendments to subscribe to amendment 4.103, signed by Senator Bonino, on which I am in favour, provided that the words "employer of banking, financial or insurance institutions" are replaced by the following: "employer or co-worker of financial services" referred to in Article 4 of Legislative Decree no. 59 of 26 March 2010. On Amendment 4104 (text 2) I am going back to the House. On Amendment 4105 calling for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u76	I would ask Senator Bonino if she accepts the rewording of amendment 4.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u77	Yes, ma'am, I welcome it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u78	I would ask the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Pesco, to give an assessment of Amendment 4.103 in the new text.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u79	Mr President, we should examine the text, since it has not been passed to the Commission. I also need to hear from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, so I don't think that's very short.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u80	I'm gonna suspend the session for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5.44 p.m. and resumed at 5.53 p.m.) I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u81	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on Amendments 4,100, 4,101, 4,102 (text 2), 4,103 (text 2) and 4,105. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 4104 (text 2), otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u82	I would ask Senator Lorefice if he accepts the call for the withdrawal of amendment 4104 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u83	Mr President, I would like to draw the entire House's attention to Amendment 4104 (text 2) at my first signature, on which the representative of the Government made an invitation to withdraw. We talk about society between dental practitioners or dental societies and, when we talk in general about medical issues that have to do with people's health, I think there should always be the attention and interest of each individual senator. We all have a popular mandate and, therefore, we are here thanks to the vote of the citizens, who are often also users of these services. This issue is linked to the difference between companies between professionals and capital companies, which in their core business focus more on profit than on the quality of services offered to citizens. With amendment 4104 (text 2), I therefore ask that national legislation be updated, allowing companies to be formed only between professionals, but not excluding the capital from this novero, because the 2017 competition legislation speaks clearly: one third of the capital can already be present, according to the reference legislation. Let me inform my fellow Members, as Mr Endrizzi has already done: someone has feared a potential European infringement, but that is false and I repeat it. If the representative of the Government wants to enter into the substance of the discussion, I invite him to do so in the Assembly and to inform each individual Member in more detail of what has been feared and which I repeat to be false, as the Bolkestein directive states unequivocally in Article 2 (2) that the directive itself does not apply to health services. We therefore reject any doubt: there is no danger of European infringement. I would also add that the Competition and Market Authority, on September 22nd, fined 1 million euros to the Dentix clinic chain, which has left many Italian citizens without teeth and with an empty portfolio, having lost both the money and the right to care. Therefore, Mr President, I do not accept the call for withdrawal, and indeed I strongly call on this House to reflect and vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u84	Senator Lorefice therefore does not accept the invitation to withdraw his amendment. Senator Ripamonti, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 4,100?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u85	Mr President, absolutely not and so I would like the House to vote on it. In addition, I was asked to subscribe to Amendment 4,103 (text 2), signed by Senator Bonino, as the rapporteur has read. If you remove the word "collaborator," it's okay for us. Otherwise, we will never be able to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u86	Does Senator Gasparri accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 4101? [[Comments.]] Senator Gasparri does not intend to withdraw the amendment at his first signature. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator Ripamonti, identical to amendment 4,101, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Modena. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Does Senator Garavini accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 4102 (text 2)?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u87	Yes, Mr. President. I would also ask that I sign amendment 4.103 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u88	Amendment 4.102 (text 2) has therefore been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of amendment 4.103 (text 2). Senator Pesco, President of the 5th Commission, I must now ask you for the harsh sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u89	Mr President, I have probed the group leaders in the Commission, but there is no unanimity, and I do not have the answer from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance either. I am sorry, but we can only go back to examining this matter in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point our work is interrupted because, since it is a draft law and not a decree-law, we cannot put aside an article and proceed with the subsequent ones, since there could be cross-effects.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u91	Mr President, perhaps you can give us another suspension, at least a quarter of an hour, because we need to talk to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u92	It's okay for me to suspend until 6.15 p.m. As indirect information has been given to me, I would ask Senator Licheri what time his request to suspend the work of the Assembly for a group meeting corresponds.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u93	I confirm at 7.30 p.m., Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u94	So we suspend the session until 6.20 p.m., Senator Pesco, but then resume the session. The sitting shall be suspended until 6.20 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.42 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u97	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I would simply like to point out that we are on the second break in just under half an hour. I understand the difficulty of the majority in finding within themselves the arrangements necessary to avoid this fragmentation of work, but in this case it would have been enough for them to agree in the Commission. You know very well that the amendments tabled in this House can only be tabled if they are rejected in the Commission. If there was a rewording, it had to be discussed before and in any case amendment 4.103 (text 2), which made us wait a long time, could certainly be negotiated between the majority forces before the work began. If there are any other points of this kind, I would ask you to appreciate the circumstances. It is not right that we should continue to wait every five minutes for an agreement which is late in coming or which needs the opinion of another Commission. If the majority is not ready, since we have become accustomed to disasters within the majority formations, let us know and postpone the sitting, appreciating the circumstances. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u98	Having not yet mentioned and seen the members of the 5th Commission, I would ask the rapporteurs and the Government if they have more news than I have. Senator De Petris, if you know what we don't know, please let us know. The Commission's work was almost over to me. They are still gathered and in fact now the sitting is resumed, almost. Colleagues, do not despair that President Pesco arrives to give us an answer, if you agree I would anticipate the speeches on topics not included on the agenda, so that we move forward on the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u101	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who have thought the deepest things love what is alive. Today we want to remember him so Professor Luigi Reitani, through the translation of one of his favorite poets; we want to commemorate him in his living being, deeply saddened by his premature and sudden disappearance. Germanist, lover of German literature and culture, Luigi Reitani was a modern European intellectual. Born in Puglia, in Cerignola, a teacher in Udine, his adoptive city, knower of the many cultures with which his love for studies led him to confront, first in Vienna, then in Klagenfurt, in Basel, then in Frankfurt, as a member of the scientific committee of the Freies deutsches hochstift and finally in Berlin, where he was director of the Italian Institute of Culture from 2015 to 2019 and where he had chosen to live together with his wife Antonella and daughters Elisa and Marilyu, to whom we address the most moved embrace of this Assembly. Professor Reitani had earned the esteem of the Italian and international academic world thanks to his skill, since the time of his first studies on Schnitzler and then facing Hölderlin, the author to whom he dedicated his professional life and who earned him several awards. His famous translation has also become a reference point in Germany, where the great meticulousness in deciphering the poet's manuscripts has been appreciated. A gentle and jovial man, Professor Reitani was endowed with a strong inclination to diplomatic skills, which had led him to play the role of city councilman in the culture of the municipality of Udine and to be awarded both the order of merit of the Austrian Republic and that of the German Federal Republic. Passionate, generous and of acute intelligence, Luigi Reitani has changed the intellectual identity of being a philologist, giving this profession a contemporary dimension. For this reason we want to remember him today through his vitality: the vitality - as he said himself by translating Friedrich Hölderlin - has thought the deepest things. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u104	ONE (Mixed). Mr President, I am here to ask you for your help because just 30 days ago I put a question to the Franco Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance on a case probably of bad administration (but we should decide that) concerning the Customs and Monopolies Agency. Just 30 days ago Director Marcello Minenna fired his main assistant, Deputy Director Alessandro Canali. Since that day there have been dozens of press, media and judiciary interventions to highlight a turbid system of dispersal of public money in the whims of Director Minenna. This system sees the current director of the Agency of Customs and Monopolies face embarrassing expenditures and travels to say the least questionable, especially in the company of staff that is employed by the Agency, but that probably also has another role in the personal management of the Director himself. In view of this, I have asked the Ministry, but also the Presidents of the Finance Commissions, at least to answer a few questions, so as not to find us once again in a condition for which politics becomes subordinate to the judiciary and above all because it is clear, Mr President, that, according to Article 60 of Law No 300 of 1999, it is up to the Minister to exercise high vigilance, which he exercises in accordance with the procedures provided for in the provision. I don't know where high vigilance is when we read in so many newspapers, both online and paper, some things. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to ask the Minister to answer this question, but also to urge the Presidents of the Finance Committees, the President of the House, of course through the crossroads and that of the Senate, so that we can listen to Director Minenna and see if, in fact, all the news we have heard in these days corresponds to reality or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u107	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, last week's Mediterranean cyclone hit Calabria hard, especially the Ionian belt and Aspromonte, and brought eastern Sicily to its knees. There have been numerous instant floods. The medicine, Hurricane Apollo, then dangerously stationed for many endless days. In fact, once reached the Ionian, very mild after the hot summer season, it was self-powered and continued to cause heavy rains, storms and windstorms on the Ionian areas of Calabria and Sicily throughout the week. Many urban centres have been flooded, as have the countryside, with flourishing citrus groves that risk radical asphyxiation. Unfortunately, as is all too often the case, we had to cry for three victims. Climate change is not a future scare, but it is terribly present. The situation has certainly been aggravated by the fragility of the affected territory, even more because last summer it was scourged by widespread and extensive fires. In fact, the overhangs of fire on one side cause the rain to slip, reducing the infiltration to 80 percent, on the other hand they predispose the soils to landslides due to the lack of hold of the vegetation. The Red Alerts of Civil Protection have been punctual and clear; nevertheless there have been damage and victims. This shows that something has not worked and a critical analysis is necessary. Then, if global action is needed on energy, transport, agriculture, livestock, food and lifestyles, locally it is necessary to counter the hydrogeological failure and adapt the territory to climate change. To this end, a basic knowledge is needed that only geological mapping can provide, but - alas - it must be completed and updated. I hope that what happened last week has crossed our minds and hearts. The minute of recollection in this House is necessary, but it does not exempt us from the solution of the problem that is in our hands, which can be condensed into five verbs: predicting, mitigating, reducing, preventing and intervening. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u110	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. About the mess, I'd say, in this case. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). I wanted to congratulate the Senate on the innovation. Just as there is the Constitution in fact, we are making a de facto regulation. We invented the intervention at the end of the session in the middle of the session: it is an interesting novelty. I propose that an explanation of vote be made after the vote and perhaps a statement on the minutes before the minutes are read. [[Applause]] I could finally get to the secret vote after a regular, clear vote. They are concrete proposals, such as those of this majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u111	At this point, having seen that colleagues from the 5th Commission have returned to the Chamber, I would ask President Pesco to report back on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u112	Mr President, the amendment was unsuccessful because the rapporteur's proposal did not pass. So the reformulation is currently unsuccessful by the Budget Commission. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u113	President Pesco, there is a result, however: what has been proposed that has not passed? What has not passed is hesitant.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u114	PESCO (M5S). No, Mr President, unfortunately, the outcome of the Budget Committee is different: there is the contrary opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution, there is the simple opposite opinion and there is the favourable opinion. The rapporteur's favourable opinion on clearance has not been passed. The other two roads remained open, but they were not put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry, I didn't understand President Pesco. PESCO (M5S). At the moment a vote has been taken in the Budget Committee on the opinion of the rapporteur, who was on the nullity of this amendment. The vote has not passed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is And so something precludes, but in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution or is it a simple opposition? PESCO (M5S). There is currently no opinion on this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If no objection is proposed and the Commission does not approve it, the outcome is precluded from the text. [[Applause]] PESCO (M5S). I repeat, Mr President, that the possibilities are different, because there can be an opinion which is either simple or in accordance with Rule 81; the other two possibilities have not been put to the vote, so at present this rewording does not have a result on the part of the Budget Commission. I will stop at this, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Mr Pesco, may I have the text of the opinion that was put to the vote, or can you read it? PESCO (M5S). Amendment 4.103 (text 2) of which I do not re-read the text does not have the opinion of the Budget Commission, because the rapporteur has made a proposal that has not passed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What proposal did you make? PESCO (M5S). The proposal was on clearance and has not passed. However, this does not automatically mean that there is an opposition under Rule 81 or a simple opposition, because the other two proposals have not been put to the vote. So, at present, this rewording has no result. I stop at this, so you decide what to do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is At the moment we have an opinion against the 5th Commission, whether it is under Article 81 or not, if there is no favourable opinion, as far as I am concerned there is an opinion against it, Mr Pesco. PESCO (M5S). It is your choice, Mr President, it is not my choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u117	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, it is clear that there is nothing to prevent it, and one thing is the opposite within the meaning of Rule 81. This amendment did not receive the opposition under Rule 81, it has no objection. As you know, there can be no objection, no vote against, no opinion under Rule 81. The latter is a procedure, as you know, specific and heavy that the Commission has not given in this case. In my opinion, it is logical in this reasoning to think that there is no objection to this opinion, but not even an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, so let us vote in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u118	Senator Errani and President Pesco, having not been put to the vote pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution - the rejection would have determined the automatism of Article 81 - but having been put to the vote a clearance, there is an opinion of simple opposition of the Budget Commission. Does the rapporteur maintain his position? STEFANO, rapporteur on draft law No 2169. Yes, of course. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since the Government also confirms the opinion expressed, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.103 (text 2), tabled by Senators Bonino and Garavini. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4104 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u121	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, at this complex sitting this afternoon, with regard to this amendment, as you have just seen, in contrast - I suppose - with what will be the vote of my Group, what I would like to highlight is that dental studies also have the capacity to put the medical and patient report in the foreground. In fact, strange as it may seem, the dentist is also first and foremost a doctor. In the medical-patient relationship in which clinical, technical, economic, organizational objectives pass, I think that an overly corporate structure is detrimental to this personal relationship. Personally, I am against it and therefore - see the game you did just now - I will be in favour of the amendment, despite my Group, because I think it is a priority to give the patient a personal relationship with the doctor and not this sort of pillow, which has no other characteristics than the economical business, which somehow subordinates the patient's interest and clinical aspect to a mere commercial reason. The more dental studies are organized with a sort of overhearing less will be attentive to the individual reality of the patient. I believe that we - Covid Docet - have just learned that the indispensable value is that every patient can look his doctor in the eyes and - let me be an analogy with what has just happened in this House - do not think that his doctor will have to call the commercial director of the facility to know whether or not he will be able to do a given surgery. We need all the values that give reason to the person's physical, mental and psychological health to be concentrated and condensed in that relationship. I shall vote in favour of this amendment, but I would like to stress that, whenever, for economic reasons, the treatment report is overly stressed, it is always at the expense of the patient. There will never be a reason why the economic aspect will become subordinate to the care relationship; it will always tend to be dominant. This is what we see every day in complex organizational models. At least when I go to the dentist, I want the person in front of me to take care of me and tell me what the estimate will be, so that I can deal with and agree with him, who will look at the criticality, urgency and emergency of my situation. In fact, I do not want there to be a board of directors who, somewhere in the world, is called to decide whether, how and when I will have to treat my teeth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u122	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4104 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lorefice and other senators, up to the words 'n'. 183 (......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4105 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, under Rule 144-a (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares the following amendments inadmissible: 5.0.101, 13.0.100, 20.0.100 and 30.0.100. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u123	Mr President, I propose a rewording of the agenda G5.100 by deleting the fourth paragraph of the premises, where it is envisaged that the possession of the title of tourist guide for the purpose of authorising the temporary exercise of the profession in Italy will be checked in advance. Such verification is not applicable to the profession of travel guide, which is not one of those having an impact on public safety or health within the meaning of Article 7 (4) of Directive 2005/36/EC. I therefore call on you to accept the agenda G5.100 (text 2) as well as the agendas G5.101 and G5.102, on which, of course, the opinion is in favour. Finally, I call for the withdrawal of amendment 5.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u124	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u125	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G5.100 (text 2), G5.101 and G5.102 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator Binetti, do you accept the rapporteur's call for withdrawal?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before we withdraw the amendment, I would like us to reflect on it, because it is far less trivial than it seems. We have just enjoyed the image of the G20: spectacular the Cloud, with all the greats of the Earth; it was a moment of great national pride. We were moved by the fact that, among the greats of the Earth, white shirts, i.e. doctors, were invited to intervene. We have recognised, on an almost equal footing, that the contribution to development (economic, social, technological and scientific) not only of Europe, was almost equal to a high-profile science that is being served, such as that of doctors, and to the 20 great Heads of State and Government. What does that mean? It means that we must take much more seriously the role of the doctor today. When I speak of a role, I refer to the qualitative profile of the training to be carried out, but also to the quantitative aspect (how many doctors are there). We have repeated several times that in Italy there is a crisis mainly of specialists. It is no coincidence that this year's budget law, which is exceptional (then we will see whether it is an exceptional measure or whether we will put it into a system), has enjoyed a much higher number of scholarships than the previous year. Now, this amendment comes to the heart of the problem of specializations and also of the possibility, by those who support the specialization tests, of accessing the famous macro-division between medical orientation, surgery and services, also allowing those who already work in hospitals to access these specializations, at the condition of a cost I do not want to say zero, but certainly much more contained than it could appear. We cannot say one thing with words, make ourselves beautiful in the whole world of how in Italy doctors are put in the front row with the greats of the Earth, and then reject or invite to withdraw an amendment that limits itself, in its structure, to guarantee more numerous and better specialists. That's all. That is the amendment, you can read it. It is written in a somewhat articulated way, because that is the complexity of the normative language, but the simplicity is this. Today in Italy we need more and better specialists. That's it. Colleagues, you can fail him, but I do not withdraw him, because for me it is a matter of principle: that it is clear. We have to decide whether we want to have an aesthetic dimension of the role of the doctor and folklore of the photo that goes around the world (with that stroke of genius to show not only the powerful, but also those who serve and have a power of service, because it is a healing power) and therefore if we want to have this dimension purely ephemeral or if we really believe that the doctors - and in this room I know perfectly that there are many - serve deeply and generously, but they need to have constant and continuous possibilities to increase number, quality and competence. Do what you want, but please do not believe that, when you want, you can speak well of the medical class and then, when you have to operate, you can do so by denying its rights. I'll stop here, because I think I've made myself quite clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u127	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.100, tabled by Senators Binetti and Masini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.101 is inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 8.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u128	Mr President, the opinion on the amendment is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u129	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u130	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.100, tabled by Senators De Carlo and Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u131	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendments 10,100, 10,103, 10,107 and 10,108, while it is in favour of Amendments 10,101, 10,102/1 and 10,102. I also call on the authors to withdraw Amendments 10,104 and 10,106; otherwise, the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u132	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u133	I would ask Senator Unterberger if he accepts the call for the withdrawal of Amendment 10,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u134	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u135	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,101, tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,102/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u138	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would ask that I be able to add my signature to this amendment, which in fact raises the original threshold to EUR 35,000 for non-confirmed tax infringements for which a tender can be excluded. Of course, this measure gives companies greater serenity and scope for action. I am therefore convinced that I am signing the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u139	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,102/1, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u142	STEFANO, rapporteur on draft law No 2169. Mr President, I am sorry, but Amendment 10,102 raised the threshold to EUR 25,000. I also voted in favour of 10,102/1, so Amendment 10,102 would in a way be precluded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator, but it is difficult for a sub-amendment to preclude an amendment. STEFANO, rapporteur on draft law No 2169. Then I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In this way, however, the sub-amendment also dies. STEFANO, rapporteur on draft law No 2169. I am sorry again, Mr President, but both I and the representative of the Government have given us a favourable opinion on the amendment amending the one I signed, with which the threshold is raised to EUR 35,000.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u143	Senator Stefano, if we approve of amendment 10,102, at your signature, after you have approved sub-amendment 10,102/1, at the first signature of Senator Margiotta, you get the result. We must therefore vote on Amendment 10,102, as has already been suggested and therefore with the changes introduced by Senator Margiotta.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u146	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I rise on the question of amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Fazzolari. FAZZOLARI (FdI). It's okay to make fun of Italians, but at least Let's tell him. The threshold is 50,000 euros. They decide to lower this penalty threshold to 25,000 euros, make an amendment and bring it up to 35,000 euros and tell it as a victory. With this three-card game, instead of the penalty threshold of 50,000, we have it at 35,000. Just figure it out and then we'll move on. Of course, Brothers of Italy will vote against all this, because the threshold of 50,000 already seemed low. We would have wanted it to be 100,000 euros and instead it would be down to 35,000 euros. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u149	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, I must speak at this point. In fact, the threshold at the moment is EUR 5,000. We had tabled an amendment that brought it up to 50,000; the rapporteur has tabled one that brought it up to 25,000; my sub-amendment brings it back to 35,000. It is not entirely correct what my colleague said, I am sorry (of course, I do not want to enter into controversy with him). If these amendments had not passed - which have already been adopted - the threshold would be 5 000. The spirit of the amendment is that, since there is a great discretion in the current rule for contracting stations, which may or may not decide to exclude an undertaking even on the basis of the hearing of a tax breach or of a not definitively established one, we have at least raised the threshold in this case too, the presumption of innocence - which I think is a great institution - we have at least raised the threshold. Otherwise, the risk is that they will be excluded from business contracts which, at the end of the whole procedure, are absolutely in order. This, especially in times like today, would really be a serious damage to the business world.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u150	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10,102 (amendment text), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,103, tabled by Senators Ribbons and Fazzolari, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 10,104 and 10,105 have been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment 10,106, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u153	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I take this furbly to say that the Commission's text brings today, 2 November, the threshold to EUR 50 000 and not to EUR 5 000. The text approved by the Commission speaks of 50 000. Therefore, the House has lowered the threshold contained in the text approved in the Commission from EUR 50 000 to EUR 35 000.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u154	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,106, tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). I shall cancel the vote. They didn't vote. [[Applause]] I would like to refer again to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,106 tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.107, tabled by Senators Ribbons and Fazzolari, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,108, tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 10 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 13.0.100 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 14, on which an agenda has been presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u155	Mr President, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u156	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u157	Having been accepted by the Government, the G14.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 16, on which amendments have been tabled, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u158	Mr President, the opinion is against both of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u159	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u160	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,100, tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.101, tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 18, on which an amendment has been tabled, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u161	Mr President, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u162	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u163	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 18.100, tabled by Senator Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 20, on which agendas have been presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u164	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of the G20.101 agenda. On the agenda, Mr G20.100, the opinion was in favour, provided that, in item 8, the words '31 December 2021' were replaced by the words '31 December 2022'.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u165	Senator Stefano, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u166	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u167	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G20.100 (text 2) and G20.101 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 20.0.100 is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u169	You have the floor, if it is a short speech, or I would refer you back to tomorrow, because we have made a commitment to the Movimento 5 Star Group. Mr President, if I may and if there is time, I shall now speak. You tell me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giammanco, I'm afraid Senator Licheri confirms your request for suspension at 7:30? LICHERI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At this point, we stop at the approval of Article 20. I shall refer the following to the debate on the draft law and the documents in title to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u170	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-373.ana.u171	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, November 3, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.32 a.m.
