ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00325 tabled by Senator Urso and other senators on the implementation of a strategic plan for the steel industry. I call Senator La Pietra to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, my fellow Senators, the Brothers of Italy have tabled this motion to bring the central issue of the steel sector, which is considered strategic and on which the competitiveness of the entire Italian industrial system is built, to the attention of the Government. Steel in Italy not only has a long tradition, but represents the excellence and flexibility typical of Made in Italy. For these reasons, the Italian steel industry maintains a leading role not only in the national economic context, but also in the European and global economic context, being the second production power at continental level, after Germany, and the tenth one at world level. In Italy there are four sites of national importance: Trieste, Piombino, Terni and Taranto, all involved in technological, industrial and environmental restructuring. Apart from the Friuli website, the other three are with foreign partnerships, with little predisposition to the protection of national interests. The serious crises that have exploded in recent years at Ilva di Taranto, Lucchini di Piombino and AST di Terni call into question the vitality of the entire steel industry, exposing the entire Italian economy to a risk of a system of enormous scope, which does not seem to be taken into due consideration by the Government. In the case of Terni, ThyssenKrupp has expressed the intention of wanting to leave the sector; in the case of Taranto, ArcelorMittal has declared the impossibility to carry out not only the environmental plan, but also the industrial activity, after measures that have removed the criminal shield, invoking even the exercise of the right of withdrawal. In the case of Piombino, JSW has waited until the last possible moment for the presentation of its plan, feeding the thesis of those who, from the beginning, have claimed that the investments of the Indian multinational had the objective of eliminating a competitor more than that of increasing their presence in Europe. The situation is even more critical given that ownership and management have two different directions and objectives: on the one hand, state investment is called for; on the other hand, there is talk of closure and conversion. These are certainly two positions which cannot be reconciled. It is in this context, therefore, that we have tabled the motion under consideration and we ask the Government for precise commitments: firstly, the implementation of a strategic plan for the steel industry which defines in detail the steel needs of our country and the market conditions on which producers must move, providing for the restructuring of the sector with a view to greater competitiveness. Secondly, with regard to the Taranto site, we call for a very important element, namely to speed up the implementation of the environmental plan and the industrial plan, ensuring that ArcelorMittal complies with the commitments made so that the former Ilva plant can really become the largest green steel plant in Europe. Here I want to specify another important step for us, perhaps not well understood, but fundamental: we also ask to rebuild the criminal shield for the period of implementation of the plan, in the light of the judicial developments taking place in Taranto, in order to avoid that the very serious responsibilities of the past - which, I stress, must certainly be verified and pursued with the utmost severity, both criminal and civil - do not fall even on those who today are committed instead to the protection of health and the environment, working the necessary industrial conversion and environmental rehabilitation. We ask you to confirm the investment programme planned for the AST of Terni in the current year 2021 and to evaluate the commitment of Cassa depositi e prestiti o di Invitalia, where required. We call for a table to be convened in good time to assess the merits of the industrial plan presented by the Piombino steel works, which, as emerges from the few leaked news, appears completely generic and without guarantee. We call for the extension of the golden power extension to the steel sector, which is very important and fundamental, with the aim of guaranteeing employment levels and productivity, since it has not been extended by the previous Government. As a final point, we would also like to use the resources of the recovery fund and the proactive role of Cassa depositi e prestiti e Invitalia in order to reaffirm the strategic role of the Italian steel industry. Mr President, I should like to end by calling on the Government and the House to find a convergence of intentions on this motion. It is so important for us to put steel at the heart of the political debate and of the national plan that we are prepared to find points of contact and change the motion so that the whole House can converge there, putting steel at the centre of the national industrial plan. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u6	I declare the debate open. Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking my colleague Mr Urso, who is giving us the opportunity this morning to discuss a matter that is absolutely necessary, indispensable and strategic for our national interest. In the "rare glimpses of lucidity," Mr Urso manages to provide and produce absolutely interesting and highly demanding material for this House, as well as, indeed, the motion under consideration. One of the five plants of the national steel industry is located in my region, Umbria, in the city of Terni, and is the first regional company by number of employees. Despite having suffered drastic and heavy downsizing over time, it remains, even with the involvement of the induced, the first company for production and number of employees. In addition to this, it is to be considered that Terni remained the last factory of production of stainless steel. As the non-experts can also understand, this production is highly strategic for the national interest and the country's overall industry. In fact, in Italy the production of machine tools, which involves the use of stainless steel, is a sector of great excellence. The production and presence on the market of the Terni plant are absolutely satisfying and rewarding. Also the orders of the first part of the year 2021 find the ability to absorb the production of the plant ternano, taking into account both its great quality, and the high demand for stainless steel. On all this lies the market, which must be looked at as something not to escape or protect itself from, but definitely to be regulated. I have been a regional adviser for three legislatures and I can convey the great sense of impotence of the local institutions in relation to issues that fly high on the head of the regional government, so much so that I can not even grasp its salient moments. The same could happen at a time when the State is interacting with processes that risk seeing it as a trivial spectator: it is quite clear that in this type of negotiations it must have tools useful to assert its presence and the entire chain of institutions (including regional ones) has the duty and the right to participate in such processes, with the possibility to influence and be protagonist in order to monitor and control. The market certainly responds to logics that sometimes need to be complemented by a political action of the institutions of presence on the territory, in terms of monitoring the respect of environmental parameters, the maintenance of employment levels and investment programmes presented by the large multinational companies, which sometimes go beyond the need to confront the institutions. With regard to all this, the motion lays down precise props, and therefore reiterates the need for a national steel plan, to act with the golden share instrument, which must obviously be transformed into law, given that what had been laid down has expired. Alternatively, we must also consider an old proposal by Brothers of Italy, expressed also on the territory by our President Giorgia Meloni, that is, the possibility of purchase by Invitalia or Cassa deposits and loans of a small share so that the State can at least monitor the progress of a negotiation that cannot be left simply to the dynamics of the market, that is to say to the supply and demand. The ownership of the Terni plant is of a German multinational, which has already long declared that it wants to sell it; we know that sometimes these negotiations also of purchase are conditioned by the will of the buyer to buy the simple market shares, rather than the plant, with all that it entails. This obviously cannot happen and this in all the five establishments on the national territory, which have a heritage of culture, traditions and presence on the local economy absolutely important, which must be safeguarded and defended, and this obviously must be done by the State. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u9	Mr President, at ArcelorMittal in Taranto, a worker, Riccardo Cristello, was fired because he had published on Facebook a post inviting him to follow a television fiction on the subject of pollution of a city not better identified, by a factory not better identified. That's enough for him to get fired. Imposing workers to hide their opinions and not to manifest them is corporate fascism. Such unjust and abnormal dismissal is the unequivocal sign that in this crisis, not only health and economic, but also social and democratic, the strongest feel invulnerable and count on impunity in the bullies over the weakest, because the aura emanating from this Government is precisely that of the predominance of the great over the small, the strong over the weak and the capital over the job. The master race immediately smells the air, tightens the grip and compresses rights that until recently would have been inviolable. To counter this drift, tomorrow I will be demonstrating with the Basic Union of Trade Unions (USB) before the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and I have signed the petition launched by this union. You can do it too, do it! It is located on the website of the basic union, it is very easy. In Italy there is no steel plan and not even in Europe, yet steel is strategic. We cannot do without it, but not at the price of polluting our cities and endangering health and the environment or imposing a criminal shield again. In our country there can be no license to kill. To produce without polluting, it is necessary to invest and change technologies and mentality. Certainly it costs a lot, but it is on this, on the reclamation of Taranto and of the many similar realities, that we must spend the money of the plan of restart, not in arms or bridges on the Strait of Messina. But you do not listen, you are deaf and blind. The steel plan we have and it is a research and production of the next generation, no matter what it costs, getting rid of the old waste with all the money that is needed. You're talking about 2050, but look at the 19th century. The alternative is and will vote against the motion of Brothers of Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u10	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u11	Mr President, this morning, I hope not in the general distraction, we are discussing one of the most significant issues for the country, because we are talking not only about steel, but also about the centrality of the economic system of our territory. We are also talking about 70,000 people working (or, better, for many of them we could say that they were working, because some of them are currently working in the Social Security Fund and many others have unfortunately lost their jobs). This is an important element, but equally important and significant is the centrality that Italy wants to have in the European and international steel system. First we sold, or sold - I don't know, you try to better interpret what happened - to foreign groups. This involved Taranto and Piombino, with ArcelorMittal or Jindal. Our plants, strategic and fundamental for the development and production of national steel, at the time even European, went into the hands of entrepreneurs not Italian, but foreign. Today we are a lame entity. In recent days, the entrepreneur who manages - it is done to say - Piombino has even closed the last rolling train of the steel mill in Piombino. There are 1,800 people who do not know what their destiny will be, an entire community that looks at that company as a possible hypothesis of development and a country and a region that rely on that activity, which we have so far dealt little and badly with. The perspective is then that contained in a fantastic industrial plan that we have not yet seen. There is only one abstract line in the air, which the company has not yet shown to anyone; it has certainly not shown it to Parliament and I am not even thinking of the government. There is the hypothesis of a participation of Invitalia to the company in Piombino, but it is still in the air, because rightly the perspectives tied to the industrial plan are evanescent. It seems that there is a willingness to shut down the company and transfer production elsewhere, probably because producing steel in the world costs much less than what it costs in our country. But we have signed an agreement of a few billion between Ferrovie dello Stato and Piombino for the realization of the rails, without in fact an objective constraint of permanence on the place of this order, that tomorrow the Indian entrepreneur could take and transfer to own Indian plants, abandoning the city of Piombino, without looking to the perspective of the future of the company, the people, the families, the Italian economy and the centrality of the Country within the economy of the steel. We can't accept this. We want a strong commitment from the Government, which I thank, together with the Undersecretary Pichetto Fratin, who, while not having the delegation for the areas of crisis, immediately lent himself to enter into the substance of the matter, giving his willingness together with the Undersecretary Todde, who has the delegation and whom I also thank. We want a direct and close relationship also with the whole question of the Italian shipbuilding industry and with Fincantieri. We want to understand the exercise of golden power, because probably there has not been, and to understand a posteriori the opportunity of many Italian steel entrepreneurs still today willing to participate that company, making it national again and carrying forward the perspective of Italian steel in the world, with an employment vision of importance, for the centrality of our country in that scenario, which we have now abandoned for too long. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u13	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Urso for giving us today the opportunity to speak again in this House about such an important subject, just as I thank the Government, which has been working hard since its installation to restart Italy, after a long year of political and economic lockdown. This is the time to rebuild the country, they are not with infrastructure, tourism, agriculture and the simplification of bureaucracy, but also with an industrial plan that makes Italy become a protagonist in Europe. Italy needs a healthy industry that respects the right to work, the right to the environment and the right to health. A different and up-to-date industrial plan is needed, because the obligation is to get companies to work. The steel sector is a key element of production activities and forms part of this plan. We at the League are aware of the importance of producing steel in Italy, but we are also aware of the importance of protecting health. For this reason, the problem must be tackled at all levels and, of course, not only with a motion. It is in fact no coincidence that one of the first dossiers on which Minister Giorgetti began to work was that relating to the plant of ArcelorMittal, meeting immediately the commissioner of the 'ex Ilva, the governor of Puglia, Emiliano, the mayor of Taranto, the unions and Confindustria Puglia. In addition, he proposed that a technical and economic feasibility check be carried out with a view to converting the former Ilva site into energy. This possibility is envisaged in the context of the Next generation EU, with the energy conversion of these plants, to produce steel with very low polluting impact. Mr President, the city of Taranto is experiencing moments of great social tension, linked to uncertainties for the maintenance of employment levels, on the one hand, and legitimate expectations of health protection, on the other. It is time to intervene in favor of this city, its inhabitants and this Region, no longer focusing on the stories of a tomorrow not feasible. There is an obligation to give concreteness at last to common sense choices, capable of instilling confidence also in the companies of the induced, which, on several sides and on several occasions, call for urgent action in favour of productivity. There is a need for significant acceleration, both in terms of the environment and in terms of industry. We will ensure that ArcelorMittal respects all the commitments made with the Government: we owe it to an important piece of Italian industrial history and to the many workers who are part of this history. The ambition is to transform the present production site of Ilva in Taranto into the largest steel plant in Europe and never as at this time there are funds to ensure the adequate financial coverage of this exceptional project. The resources made available to Europe through the recovery fund, the decisive intervention of the Deposit and Loan Fund and the EUR 400 million of Invitalia must be the instruments through which to build solid foundations, on which to reaffirm the strategic role of our steel industry in Italy and in Europe. In order to do this, it is necessary to prevent the heavy and serious responsibilities of the past from falling on those who intend to work actively to safeguard the environment and health, ensuring compensation for the places and industrial conversion, and to extend the extension of the golden power, the only embankment capable of guaranteeing the current levels of employment in the steel industry. Mr President, the entry of the State will not serve to make the usual welfare policy, because the South does not need this, but to grow and develop not only the Mezzogiorno, but the whole nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u14	She is registered to speak Senator Pavanelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u15	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the motion before the House for an opinion raises important questions about the turning point of the national steel industry in terms of economics, public health and the environment. In an increasingly aggressive international context, the situation in Italy is deteriorating from year to year, with tens of thousands of workers at risk of their jobs. We cannot stand by and watch one of our industry's strengths lose one piece at a time. The formulation of a national strategic plan for the steel industry by the Government is urgently needed, taking into account all the current challenges in order to protect this important part of national GDP. This is an indispensable plan, because, in addition to the safeguarding of jobs, we must also respond to the demands for the protection of the health of citizens in the territories where iron and steel plants are located, where statistical data on the incidence of cancer diseases are much higher than the national average. The first thought goes to the dramatic situation of Taranto, where for decades public health was sacrificed on the altar of profit, for the benefit of a few owners, favored by a political class enslaved to their economic power, as judicial investigations have brought to light. As an Umbrian town, I cannot fail to mention Terni's steel mills, within an area classified as a site of national interest (SIN), that is highly polluted and to be reclaimed, to which is added the presence of two incinerators, which further complicates the environmental criticality of the concaternana. Unfortunately, I must note the attitude of the regional administration, which has essentially stopped the full functioning of the cancer register, a very important tool to have the incidence of cancer diseases in the population in a geographical area. We can't forget the environment. That is why we need to be aware that steel mills emit a large amount of CO2. The 2018 data of the report "Sustainable steel - 2018 indicators and initiatives " show that, for each tonne of steel, 1.83 tonnes of CO2 were produced on average. It is therefore time to make courageous choices, indispensable for the future of all of us and of the generations to come, and to direct the steel mills - of which we cannot do without them - towards the necessary ecological transition, with responsible companies, which put in place a real medium and long-term vision, both from the industrial point of view and for the green conversion of the sector. This is also crucial for a city like Terni, where workers are still waiting for clear answers. The constitutionally recognised duty to protect the health of citizens is directly linked to the protection of the environment as a whole, starting from the emission into air and water, bearing in mind the provisions of the European Union, which provide for the achievement of climate neutrality by 2050 (as foreseen in the European green deal). As legislators and decision-makers, we have a great responsibility to start looking at this sector with a different perspective. We need to protect the national steel industry, but we need to push companies to invest in new technologies and plants that allow steel to be produced with as little pollution as possible in the production cycle of waste left over from emissions into the atmosphere, but it is essential that the industry itself operates towards the same objective. The World steel association (i.e. all steel industries in 2018) has in fact signed the Sustainable development charter of the world steel industry, but to date this change does not seem to have been implemented. Technology comes to our aid. That's why we need to move fast to decarbonisation of the sector. We must promote the circular economy by reusing the material as much as 100% recyclable and adopt solutions for recycling waste through the creation of new materials. Also for these reasons, the new Ministry of the ecological transition has been conceived that, in synergy with other ministries, will be called to play a very important role in achieving the objectives of decarbonization and climate neutrality provided for by the above mentioned European plans and related regulations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u16	The debate is closed. I communicate that motion 1-00325 has been withdrawn and that the agenda for the G1 was presented by Senators Urso, Collina, La Forgia, Sbrollini, Ripamonti, Mallegni, Santillo and Bressa (so signed by eight parliamentary groups), already printed and distributed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u17	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I would like to thank the proposers for the motion, also for their willingness to find convergence with regard to the subject that has been discussed, concerning the national strategy of our country, competitiveness, both for the productive aspect and for the need to safeguard employment, and the whole steel system. I would like to remind you that Ilva and Piombino are national issues relating to a certain type of steel, while Terni is another issue. It's like comparing viscose and vicuña, talking about textiles. There is, therefore, the need to safeguard the entire supply chain and of course to find the appropriate solutions, in the first two cases of restructuring, in the third case of identifying a new member with respect to the purposes of the current property. The Government does not express a position on the choice between industrial and financial partners; it will have to be assessed at the appropriate time. In this respect, it is important to proceed with the evaluation with the attention and potential deterrent, in relation to certain situations, of the use of the legal instruments available. I thank the proposers and believe that the wide subscription of the agenda represents a greater incentive, also for the Government, to undertake paths to find positive solutions. I therefore give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u18	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u21	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his remarks and for having contributed, on behalf of the Government, to the drafting of an agenda which goes in the direction that the motion tabled by the Brothers of Italy also wished to propose to Parliament's attention. It was important to produce a discussion on the subject of steel, which characterizes much of the development of our country, because of the centrality that the steel sector has in our European and global projection. So let us have a debate of this kind. On the contrary, because of the importance of the sector in our economy, we should devote more time to such an important issue. My view of Umbria, coming from a region in which there is an important site such as that of the AST mill in Terni, leads me to give particular importance to a debate of this nature. We have a duty, as a Parliament, to help give the government a direction and a boost on the subject of steel. We are well aware that the steel industry is an extraordinary wealth, not only of our country but of the whole of Europe; an occupational wealth estimated at 70,000 employees, both in the direct and indirect sectors, the so-called induced. It is a sector that characterizes the life of our country and Europe in the fields of construction, mechanics, automotive, household appliances. In our territory we recognize the centrality of three extraordinarily important sites (Taranto, Piombino, Terni), characterized in this phase by rather important issues, on which I will return shortly. The framework is that of a steel crisis that has advanced in recent years heavily in Europe before in Italy, due to the very strong competition of the Asian countries, the United States and Turkish steel. These countries have made the reduction of labour costs their main focus. In Italy there are problems related to the low energy efficiency and the high polluting impact of the plants, but above all our productions are not protected from dumping and from the strong competition that is determined on the cost of labor in comparison with the other Asian countries that I remembered before and with the United States. Korea, among Asian countries, is also a strong competitor in this direction. In order to respond to this crisis which is now in its infancy, a sustainable industry plan must be relaunched, as was said before and as is said in the debate that the agenda places on Parliament. First of all, this must be done by focusing on the resources of the recovery plan. In this sense, we have seen how that plan can have a great centrality, especially as regards the resources to be allocated to the whole process of transition towards sustainable production. Within the plan are estimated 2 billion which is a starting point of the action that the government must put in place. It is of great importance to deal with this issue today in Parliament because we have three important and central sites for our economy which have different problems, but which are united by the same need for intervention. First of all, we have the Ilva on which a discussion table is opened between commissioners, trade unions and institutions, following the crisis with ArcelorMittal regarding problems arising in the management of the site and questions concerning the cancellation of the criminal shield. All these issues cannot be an alternative to the central question of the environmental sustainability of that plant and its environmental conversion. No one can escape from this central issue, including the Government and the European Union. We have the theme of Piombino, another of the sites of great strategic value for this country, characterized by the presence of the shareholder Jindal, who in recent years has not given the impression of wanting to push the industrial pole of Piombino towards a renewed development. It seemed almost more like an attempt to limit the competition of this plant in the world panorama. In fact, Jindal, buying it, took it away from the competition towards his own productions with other world sites. This is more the problem of Piombino than the issues that pertain to the evaluations that instead are to be done on the development of such an important site. Last but not least, there is the question of the steel industry, which I personally feel is very important. It is a steel mill of great importance and of great European value: it is the fourth European player. The steel industry has been under stress for many years now - especially for workers - for the continuous changes in company structure. Last year the current property, ThyssenKrupp, that had bought it back for reasons related to the intervention of Europe in the matter of antitrust from the Finns of Outokumpu, announced the disposal of the stainless steel (i.e. of the production of steel on Terni) and not of the production in the other sites of its own property. In fact, he said he maintained all the service centers. In this sense, there is a reflection that must necessarily involve the European institutions because, as Europe intervened to block the sale to the Finns of Outokumpu of the steel works internana on issues relating to the concentration of shares in Antitrust, it is quite clear that today it is necessary to ask whether ThyssenKrupp's actions, with regard to the surrender of only stainless steel and not service centres, can also be supported in Europe. We do not think so, and therefore the issue must surely be put to the attention of the European Commissioner for Competition and the Government must push in this direction. Basically, however, we can only express a positive vote on the agenda for the considerations that have been made at several levels, especially because it highlights the commitments that we believe are important to be made by the Government, including supporting European tables for the establishment of a common industrial policy. This is certainly the first and most relevant point. We are convinced that it is important to adopt a new action plan which gives a long-term vision of steel policy in Italy. However, we think that it is essential to do this through a passage that is then well indicated in the commitments for the Government: the solution of all the crisis tables. The situations of the three main plants (Piombino, Terni and Taranto) are there for the attention of the Government, together with many other crisis situations in the field of mechanics and steelmaking in this country. This is why a development policy must also go through the need to give a perspective to the solution of the crisis tables. It will be absolutely essential - as was said earlier - to support and sap the funds of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, because they will be able to guarantee the necessary transitions of ecological conversion towards sustainable industrial production, which can give new life to the Italian steel industry. We do not have any other prospects for recovery and that can lead us to be competitive with the European and world system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u24	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, Brothers of Italy tabled the motion that gave Parliament and this House the opportunity to discuss a fundamental issue for the planning of the industrial, social and environmental policy of this country. It has done so with conviction, at a particularly delicate moment for the sector, as evidenced by the fact that the Government has convened the unions for tomorrow and the fact that there is great agitation in the offices and plants of the Italian steel industry, in Taranto, Genoa, Piombino, Terni. But, above all, there is so much agitation and concern in the sectors that use Italian steel. The other day an important daily newspaper and certainly not close to us assumed that there was an international strategy of which Italian plants were the object to increase the price of steel in Europe, as evidenced by the trend of the price of steel these days, bringing out from the competition precisely the users of the sector in Italy, that they are much of our railway industry, automotive, of the appliances and whatever else. We thank the Government and the other political forces for having understood the importance of the issue and for having agreed in the realization of a final document unitary: an agenda that transposes most of our indications, all those substantial, and that places at the first point the steel sector as a strategic asset of the country to which Italy cannot give up. We therefore thank him on the merits, because we are talking about something fundamental for the Italian economy, but we also thank him in the method, which is what we want to implement at this stage of the legislature, as Giorgia Meloni has said from the beginning in motivating our position with respect to the Government, that of a patriotic opposition and therefore constructive and collaborative, all the more so when it comes to issues and decisions that must be taken today in order not to prejudice the future of the country, indeed to build it together. Then, when we are in the government, we will find ourselves in a better condition, if we have worked together in Parliament to indicate the right ways on which the country must address itself. It is therefore a strategic issue on which the State - as we have said - must intervene not as a State interventionist, but as a State strategist in delineating what the needs of steel in Italy are, in order to support its industry and to outline what the actors must be. We are all aware that the plants of Terni, Piombino and Taranto, today in the hands of foreign companies, in the coming months or in the coming years will see other actors, because we are aware that they are coming out of such companies for different reasons: TyssenKrupp for an international strategy abandons steel; Piombino because in fact we do not see a real commitment, as had been assured by the Indian company that had acquired the plant; Ilva because you who have governed in these years are more aware of us of what were the real intentions of the subject who intervened and of how to operate. But today you can do something, indeed you can do a lot, on the contrary you can do everything, today more than ever, using just the resources of the recovery fund, and not only those. The Italian industry has been built on the steel industry: nobody can forget that the steel industry is the foundation of the Italian automotive and manufacturing industry, which is the main voice of our exports precisely because it has been able to benefit in recent years from a competitive price and a steel product that is better than that produced in other European factories. Everyone knows that, starting with the European military operating abroad and that, when they find themselves in a medium protected by Italian steel [[Applause]] , they know that that steel protects better than that produced in France. That is why we know how fundamental it is and today we set out a strategy that includes a plan for the steel industry, a unified logic (not breaking between the three tables of Piombino, Ilva and Terni, but an overall logic), and at the same time the reproduction of the golden power, which had been inserted with an amendment of ours and I believe of the League to the Chamber in the decree-liquidity law of last April, but which expired on 31 December last year. I would like to thank Mr Giorgetti for the posture he has adopted in this area, and Mr Gilberto Pichetto Fratin, undersecretary, who strongly wanted the debate to end with a united document, well aware that Parliament should not be divided on this issue. We first do not want to divide the other political forces, not even those of the majority: our understanding was to unite, not to divide; it was to build, not to block; it was to resolve, not to denounce. Everyone can block, divide and denounce, but now it is a question of building, uniting and resolving; we owe it to the many workers and also to those who have paid in health terms, sometimes with their lives, the pollution of the Taranto steel industry. We must solve the problem and not just denounce it, let alone let the judiciary dictate the rules of industrial and environmental policy in this country. It is politics and Parliament that must do so, and in this respect the judiciary cannot, in our view, play a role as a supplement to Parliament; of course it must investigate and clearly strike the perpetrators. For this reason, the extension of the golden power is important: at a time when foreign subjects probably intend to leave the country, we must direct those who will take the place to build a steel industry that will hold on to the strategy of the state, also on the public intervention - whether it be Invitalia or Cassa depositi e loani - that can be important for the moment of supplementing then to condition the choices and direct them towards the national interest in the sector. But I also mention Italian private individuals, because we have a steel industry and a top management in Italy, which must be involved in the logic of a national plan and in the industrial management of these companies: we can do it together if we build a national policy that is also an example in other sectors. In these hours at the Chamber we are discussing the Italian Stock Exchange. Again, being a fundamental sector, Giorgia Meloni wanted there to be an open debate in Parliament, with convergences between majority and opposition, in the supreme interest of the country, on decisions that - taken today - can undermine or save and build the national interest of the coming years. On this line we will also continue on other fundamental issues, with the awareness that in this final glimpse of the legislature we must propose and build a proper relationship with the majority and with the Government, in the conviction that in this field it is increasingly necessary to share the choices. Sometimes I am critical, as you know, of France's position on certain issues, but I admire that country because when it makes a choice shared between majority and opposition, it keeps it over the years and decades, because one cannot change a policy on steel, steel or finance to the horror of governments. These are national choices that protect and strengthen national interest and therefore must be shared in Parliament. Today we are the only force of opposition and also in this we want to mark the discontinuity with the past. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u27	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Pichetto Fratin and all the leaders of the 10th Group. Commission, which helped to build the unitary agenda, which I believe stems essentially from the awareness that we all have of the particularity of this moment, which forces us to look with new eyes at the situations that we live in our country and throughout the world. Covid has often made us say that nothing will be the same as before, but this depends essentially on our ability to look differently at reality, to project it into the future in a more conscious way than many issues that we have discovered today to be essential, such as environmental sustainability. Europe has given itself, with great courage, ambitious objectives of change; the recovery plan is not only a great injection of resources, but is a process of transformation of Europe's economy, of the productive system and when these assessments are made, I believe that strategic sectors should be identified. This is the fundamental issue. Today, with the debate we have had, especially with the agenda that we are preparing to vote together, we declare that we have this awareness. It is true that there are corporate crises and there are crisis tables that absolutely need to be resolved, but it is not an emerging response that we want to give, but a response that contains a design, that gives a sense and an overall path to our country, in a framework of European strategies that we must absolutely recall and try to achieve. The solutions to these strategic areas are no longer only in the search for the conditions that can determine a way out locally, but must be sought and found in a perspective that recognizes a fundamental role for the entire steel industry. The steel industry for Europe is absolutely decisive precisely because new conditions have come to be created, for example the car industry has made changes, mergers, has made important progress, with all the resulting progress. Steel-related chains are absolutely important to our continent and are linked, as has also been said, to high-quality production. It is clear that there are great disparities in production in the world today. It is not a heresy to talk about dumping for some countries that have great production capacity, but often in the absence of compliance with environmental sustainability criteria. Faced with these disparities, we must make strategic choices as the European Union and steel is at the centre. There cannot come another pandemic and hit a Europe that does not yet know what strategic areas we must have made a safe path to take. Europe cannot risk being swept away in these areas, because there are dynamics that have led it to entrust to other players the future of certain sectors on the territory of the European Union. This is the issue of perspective that we must address. In the items on the unitary agenda there is a strong indication for the Government to work in this direction, both at national, international and European level. In fact, if we do not raise this awareness among all the countries and continue to think that the solution of certain issues lies first of all in our country and is not to be researched at European level, we will never find those solutions that would autonomously give us the conditions to get out of the crisis in which we find ourselves. Europe has made a qualitative leap from the point of view of awareness in the face of this pandemic. It must repeat, in my opinion, this qualitative leap in every sector which, from a strategic point of view, represents a fundamental infrastructure of the continent's economy. This is a starting point. Normally the motions try to be precise and to give precise commitments. Those on the agenda may seem a little nuanced, but in fact they are decisive points, because they represent the objectives on which we must work in a determined way immediately, precisely because we have before us the resources of the recovery plan. For the use of these resources, however, we are not given a gigantic period of time, but we are asked for a great capacity, a great determination and timeliness. Therefore, these strategic reflections must be made quickly and shared at government level, but above all at Parliament level, with the involvement of all the parties involved: the production system, the workers, the trade unions and the people on whom these large plants are insisting. The territories are absolutely protagonists in this type of path. If this agenda can be a starting point for subsequent developments, even in 10a The Commission could consider further the deepening of these issues. We have an assigned deal on complex crisis areas and we know that among the seventeen complex crisis areas there are precisely those affected by steel plants. Beyond the specific themes of each site, I believe that the Government and Parliament will have to work to address the fundamental issues that have emerged from this debate. Of course, all strategic sectors need significant choices of the public side by the government. There are some transformations that, if we leave them to the market, follow dynamics that do not give the answers we seek. Therefore, the indication that the extension of the golden power to the steel industry has been assessed is absolutely crucial. We cannot fall into this contradiction where, on the one hand, we say that the steel sector is strategic and, on the other hand, as a state, we do not put in place the resources and actions that give strategic sector status to the steel industry. This is an important issue, to continue to develop and deepen, but then, with the Government, we will have to be able to arrive at precise, incisive and decisive choices. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u30	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank my colleagues and of course also the Government, who have promoted such an important debate on a strategic sector such as steel. Thank you also for your commitment to contain, as far as possible and as far as possible, this debate within a united agenda, which is shared across political forces. I think that, in general, within industrial policy, the debate on what should be and should become this sector in the future is comparable, for a country, to foreign policy (or how it should be in theory), that is, a basic framework built through strategic lines shared across the political forces and the entire country. Within this framework, of course, is the legitimacy of political forces to divide themselves in relation to their own sensibilities and their own gaze on the world. Therefore, the fact of building an agenda that has these characteristics comforts me, because it means putting the debate on industrial policy back at the centre and asking us the question of questions, that is, what Italy wants to become in the next twenty or thirty years. We must return to the ambition of rewording questions that we have stopped doing for a long time. I add only a few points which, among other things, are underlined, which reflect some of the reflections already developed by my previous colleagues. The first: Ilva, Lucchini, AST are naturally and technically events dealt with in industrial crisis tables, which, however, cannot be considered as simple industrial crisis tables, all the more so if we treat them separately, in the absence of a unified framework, of a common thread that holds them together, if we do not emerge from the emerging logic, if we do not identify an overall strategic plan, if we do not think, as we should, that such events need a unified treatment. This is because there is an issue that goes through them, which concerns technological innovation, which concerns the ability to increase and increase productivity, which concerns, for example, the possibility of increasing negotiating capacity in relation to the negotiation of energy costs. We are talking about programming which is the premise for building an investment plan on the sector all, in its complexity and in its articulations. For this reason, the indication identified on the agenda is a fair indication, which is a method, but also a substance. I do not say this because I have heard some patriotic and autarchic calls echo: we do not need this. We need to defend the national interest, but with the knowledge that the scale to which this debate is based is at least European. In this sense, too, the agenda makes a significant contribution precisely because it stresses the theme of the European tables on which the debate must be opened, while at the same time rethinking the relationship of strength and relations with other European countries. The game - I repeat - must be dealt with first on this scale. Secondly, we have thought of operators who are more inclined to make a kind of decommitment on investment than to really act to restart the industrial activity of the sites we are discussing. This applies both to Terni (which has been cited and where ThyssenKrupp has expressed the intention to leave the sector), and to ArcelorMittal, with the declared impossibility to carry out not only the environmental plan, but also the same industrial activity, using - I say as an excuse, all instrumental - the theme of the absence of the criminal shield. That is what we are talking about: an instrumental excuse on the part of those who used that opportunity for a disengagement. I am also thinking of the Piombino Indians (I say this not in a derogatory sense, but to underline the nationality of the multinational), who have waited until the last minute to present the plan, essentially declaring in a rather explicit way - at least in this way it must be read - the intention more to eliminate a competitor, than to actively run to restart industrial production. I do not know if that can be defined, but I allow myself to call it predatory capitalism, because we are talking about societies and families that have put their hands on assets not to make them work, but for the exactly opposite objective. Here the role of the state comes into play (in which I think there is a consensus, which I would like to stress positively, also between the political forces) and the function of that golden power which has been mentioned and which we ask to extend to the steel sector in order to guarantee employment levels and productivity. I recall the clause in the so-called liquidity decree, which expired on 31 December 2020, which we request to extend with an extension. This is an important point that has to do with the function and role of the State in a sector that cannot be considered as one like many, because it represents the backbone and backbone of a beautiful piece of the manufacturing industry of the Country. Finally, the steel industry is certainly the story of an industrial sector, but also of places, communities, families and stories like those told in the beautiful novel by Silvia Avallone, which has a rather explanatory title - "Steel" - and tells the story of families and young people who lived in the lands and in the community of Piombino. In short, it is about the history not simply of an industrial sector, but of places and communities crossed by conflicts between work and health and between the dignity of people and the environment. We must enter together in a new season in the history of this country, where those events do not remain confined to specific places and territories and to individual communities, but become a piece of the history of this country, which must come out of the blackmail in front of which the families who have lived in those and for those industrial settlements have often been found. I am referring to the conflict between the acceptance of a job (with the idea, therefore, of being able to continue to guarantee dignity for himself and his family) and the awareness of having to do so at the cost of their own health and the depletion of environmental resources. I think that we have arrived at a stage when we need to get out of this blackmail and we have done well to put a great deal of emphasis on the processes of ecological conversion that must go through these sectors. We must also discuss a word which is a bad word for some but which is not a bad word for me at all: decarbonisation. I am referring to processes that bring us back immediately in a new time, in a future, and of course we must do so in continuity with the investments foreseen in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which must be the guide to redesigning a new sector. These are communities that look to the future with greater dignity than what they have had so far to enter as a whole as a country in a new phase of our history [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u33	BIASOTTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to express my special thanks to the Brothers of Italy, but above all to the Undersecretary Pichetto Fratin, because he had the capacity to transform a hypothetical debate between us into a agenda shared by everyone on such an important and strategic sector. However, I would like to make a very brief excursion to avoid - and this is an invitation to the Government - making the huge mistakes we have made in the past. The steel industry has always been a strategic sector that developed mainly in the post-war period, due to the obvious need to rebuild a virtually destroyed industrial system. The merit went to a mythical character in the steel industry, Oscar Sinigaglia, whose name was the Cornigliano plant, which had enormous merits, but also enormous demerits in the light of today's events. The merits were: to have understood that only a full cycle could enable steel to be built at competitive prices; to understand that in those years large public funding was necessary in order to develop the steel sector and finally to have been able to take from the newly created European Coal and Steel Community, and especially from the Marshall plan enormous resources to make the various factories. The great demerit that we carry still today is to have decided to build the sites of the factories on the coasts and especially in the big cities. Perhaps in those years this had the aim of avoiding the transfer of workers and certain difficulties, but this was the mistake that we still carry with us today. In 1953 the Cornigliano plant was born, that of Taranto, which was then developed in 1970, that of Piombino and so on. Only to give news to colleagues, Cornigliano was in Genoa, along with Nervi on the opposite side, the golden beach of the Genoese, was the place of holiday of the Genoese, perhaps like Bagnoli for the Neapolitans; therefore that destruction was disastrous for Genoa. Even today, those arriving in Genoa by plane unfortunately run along the Cornigliano steel mill: instead of having the beautiful beaches of Portofino, it has a crap [[Applause]] Unfortunately I have to tell everyone who comes to Genoa that it is beautiful, but they don't believe it because when they arrive by plane they see a bad city. In the 1960s everything went well because the recovery was enormous, but the first mistake the government made was to keep the steel industry public for 20 years rather than privatising it, while there were huge expressions of interest. Instead of privatising it we held it in our hands until the nineties, producing losses that I could not actualize, but then it was 10,000 billion, with a monthly loss of 200-300 billion; unfortunately, however, perhaps for reasons of political clientelism, for interest, the mistake of Gioia Tauro, that we have now turned into a port (but no longer wants anyone), it has been striking. It was all money thrown away. I therefore call on the Government to be careful. In 1992 it finally privatised and another mistake was made: we privatised Riva to the entrepreneur. When I had the honour of making the President of the Region the first thing I did was an epochal battle against Riva, who was a great entrepreneur for himself [[Applause),]] producing enormous profits to its coffers, but without respecting any programme agreement. We have therefore dragged this noise and environmental pollution, the carboniles without shelter, in a shameful way. Finally, after twenty years, justice has done one of the few right things, removing property from Riva and entrusting it to the commissioners. I turn then to the Government; I recommend, we have now had the fortune to have given the Steelworks to ArcelorMittal, who is not Riva or Biasotti, but the largest industrial in the steel world. It is in 60 countries, it has 200,000 employees, invoice 80 billion; we want to send it away? Why did Sabrina Ferilli defend a worker? Why did two ministers speak on the matter? The dismissal was for just cause, perhaps it was wrong, but let's get the courts, the peace judges, the labour judges and we think about the hard work. We have a partner that we must hold on to; woe to manage the steel industry with the public, as well as trouble to manage Alitalia or other with the public. The public is not able, except for a post-war period, except, as now, an economic crisis such as that caused by the Covid, in which the state is certainly important. However, the State must be a funder, it must ensure that the conversion work is done, it must do what the State must do and not the entrepreneur. We're not historically capable of that. [[Applause]] Moreover, Government, if we want our industrial activities to be competitive, we must make them so, we cannot pay energy three times as much, we cannot pay taxes four times as much, we cannot pay interest twice as much as other European countries; I am not talking about the Chinese, but about European countries. We entrepreneurs really start off with boulders on us that we can't take off. Recapitulating and concluding my speech, let's hold on tight, very tight the ArcelorMittal; let's pretend of nothing, let go. [[Applause]] Let us not waste this opportunity, we are not capable. The commissioners are only able to give themselves the tax shield for them, to make the parcels, to take a salary, to make slides that go on years and years [[Applause]] , as happened with Alitalia. Enough, Minister. Keep ArcelorMittal. Fortunately, I believe that Giorgetti, Draghi and you have a competence and a lucidity, which I consider essential. So thank you for the agenda and for the unanimity that I think is important; few pindaric flights, however, we pedal and move forward. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u36	RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the first thanks go, of course, to Mr Pichetto Fratin and to the House who, in some way, faced with the correct and timely focus that Mr Urso's motion has placed on the subject of steel, have managed to find a synthesis and to combine the various souls and positions that would certainly have found a place of confrontation within Parliament. I would therefore like to thank the Undersecretary for the fact that the agenda is signed by almost all political forces and I believe it is representative of the sentiment that the Assembly and the country are expressing on the steel industry at the moment. Terni, Trieste, Piombino and Taranto; the focus and sites were placed on the agenda. These are in fact the challenges that the country will face with regard to its positioning within the geopolitics that concerns the steel side. Evidently each of them is different, each site has its own peculiarity, there are problems of industrial plans, employment, transition and energy transformation from the point of view of supply for production. It is clear that Parliament has this role, the Government has its own and we, as Senator Collina rightly recalled, through the exercise of the affairs assigned to the complex crisis area, will in the coming weeks address in particular the issues relating to two of these sites, Piombino and Terni. The pandemic, as everyone knows, has caused a 40% loss in the sector, but the positive note is that in 2021 these 40 percentage points have been reduced to 12. I fully share Senator Biasotti's concerns when he points to the difficult location of the current installations. The Cornigliano steel mill has 1,200 employees and is actually located in a strategic position, which is probably anachronistic today. The role played at this time in the geopolitical chessboard by the steel industry is extremely important, also in light of the difficulty in supplying raw materials and the difficulty of maintaining competitive prices. This clearly leads us to reflect even more, if ever needed, on the fact that the central role of steel production in our country is extremely important, without a doubt. We also add that precisely the core business of the recovery plan leads to promoting infrastructure development and - live God! Every one of us knows how hard it is to move in our country. If in addition to the infrastructural part we add the building part, through the 110% bonus, hoping for an extension and an extension, we put together a huge demand for steel production. I do not want to recall how, for example, the public work, now historic, of the bridge on the Strait of Messina was absolutely strategic, also for the production of steel. If we then believe, as I believe we all do, even in the light of the agenda, that this sector is absolutely strategic, then the exercise of golden power is in my opinion necessary, if not even fundamental. Mr. Representative of the Government, as has already been mentioned, sometimes there is a problem, not only from the point of view of the steel industry, which is however particularly strategic, but also for other sectors particularly useful to our country, such as the aerospace sector. In this regard I believe that, sometimes, foreign investments are not always and exclusively children of the will to expand, produce or develop the productivity of a site that - combination! - it is often found in Europe and its property has a strong production outside Europe. I therefore call on the representative of the Government, but I believe that he will certainly do so, to be very careful that the industrial plans proposed by these companies are actually called for in the meantime to safeguard employment, which seems to me to be another fundamental issue, and in particular to productivity and development. In fact, I would not want them to be strategically budgeted as losses and then competition, as by magic, fails. I add something that I hope will help, but I do not know if it can be shared, as it is my personal reflection. It is clear that every energy transition, particularly during this period, is fundamental and Europe is asking for it, with decarbonisation and so on. However, I raise the problem that this transition, very often, is not seen as an impact on production costs, because this impact probably makes us less competitive within the world chessboard. I want to set an example, which I hope will help. In Linz, Austria, there is a steel mill, which is unanimously recognised as the greenest in the entire steel industry and it burns plastic as fuel, greatly reducing the impact of using carbon coke. I don't want to say that's the way, but I want to try to do the ideological exercise to get something off my back to make a contribution. I believe that this can really be a possibility, also because from 1 January 2021, European plastic tax comes into force so, compared to this huge, huge problem of plastic, I think a good government could start looking in that direction too. It is clear that the joint consultation tables of the various ministries are very useful to address the issue of innovation in the sectors; on the other hand, the issue is not only about the MISE, but also about other ministries such as the ecological transition. I am pleased with the work that has been done to arrive at the agenda. I don't even want to go too far because we have to face other motions. In conclusion, I would like to point to the crisis as an opportunity. At this historic moment, the great commitment of resources following the crisis represents a great opportunity. From this point of view, I feel quiet if to address this topic within the Government there is a Ministry that has as its main tenant Minister Giorgetti, also because during the audition phase he also posed the theme of the diversity of approach towards the crisis tables. A diversity that includes, within the panorama of possibilities, public intervention through the tools we have, for the search for truly efficient partners. For this reason, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, I am voting in favour of the G1 agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u39	TURCO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda under discussion, presented by the Brothers of Italy and by other parliamentary groups, the Movimento 5 Stars strongly expresses an opposite position. The issue of steel cannot be separated from the declared and ongoing ecological transition, from the objectives of the 2030 Agenda and from the more ambitious objectives of Agenda 2050, to which Italy aspires and to which the resources of the recovery fund will mainly be allocated. In planning the industrial transition, it is necessary to take note of the changes that have taken place over the last twenty years in the sector in question, where it is necessary to abandon the nostalgia of the past and direct the choices on new industrial and economic paradigms. There are two realities that have contrasted in our country and which, unfortunately, reflect once again the gap between North and South: coal-fired integral production and electric oven production. The latter has been successful in the markets, with strong growth, with high added value, sustainable in economic, environmental and social terms. I would like to remind you that in electric oven production Italy is first in Europe and one of the first in the world. The whole-cycle coal production, instead, based on the use of carbon coke, has had an inevitable decline, but also predictable, given the closures of the plants in Bagnoli, before, Cornigliano, Piombino and recently Trieste. This is a production reality out of context, very impacting on the environment and public health, not socially accepted, technologically outdated, with low added value, based on economies of scale, alas, no longer current, designed to cope with large mass productions no longer existing and with a high incidence of labour costs. Faced with this productive contrast, our steel companies, our Italian entrepreneurs have already chosen: they have chosen electric oven production, on which is now concentrated 82% of national production, equal to 23 million tons. Electric oven production, gradually becoming of excellence, is concentrated in the North of the country, where the political and business and trade union classes have been able to make far-sighted and courageous decisions and have planned and carried out virtuous processes of industrial and economic transition in time. All this, however - alas - has not happened for the South and the last plant still remained open, that of Taranto, where, in the year 2020, the production has slightly exceeded the three million tons. For this plant, after more than thirty years of unfinished, inefficient management, first public, then private, entrusted to first Italian and then foreign subjects, it has not been possible to give valid technological and economic solutions to satisfy the primary and essential needs of correct functionality and the necessary and indispensable expectations of safeguarding the environment and public health. And, of all, the protection of the work. This is due to the excessive size and capacity of the plant, the obsolescence of the plants themselves, strong international competition, quality and high cost of production, as evidenced by the losses of major orders, including those in the car sector. The crisis of the Taranto steel plant is not of judicial origin, dating back to when, nine years ago, the judiciary seized the plants and prosecuted owners and managers. That factory, President, was called a source of sickness and death for those who work there and for those who live nearby! [[Applause]] On the contrary, it is a structural crisis, due to the obsolescence of the plants, the absence of investments in technological and process modernization, extraordinary and even ordinary maintenance; environmental plans and compliance plans drawn up and never - ever! - realized, always extended, the last of which should have been completed in 2015 and has now been moved to 2023, a goal that will not be, for the umpteenth time, reached. If in 2020 ArcelorMittal in Taranto has produced and sold little more than three million tons, President, it is not because the judicial authority has prevented to produce and sell more, but because the steel produced today in Taranto has no market, as shown, moreover, the start of the integration fund for market crisis promoted by the same company in July 2019, when the current pandemic was relegated to the world of bad dreams. On the steel plant in Taranto, therefore, we need courageous, avant-garde, sustainable choices, as happened in other parts of the country, guaranteeing immediate and substantial investments able to radically convert the production processes and put the factory back on the market, but with new industrial and economic prospects. In order to do this, it is necessary to abandon the coal integral cycle, which is no longer sustainable, orienting electric oven production, experimenting with new innovative production processes, such as that contained in the agreement concluded with Invitalia, which is an electric furnace, expanding the processing activity, also favouring production chains after production of steel, and providing, during the transition period, a program agreement aimed at managing production lines intended for the closure, conversion and redevelopment and re-use of work units made redundant. At the same time, it is necessary to guarantee the city, still at the last places for quality of life, both on environmental protection and on health protection. On this last profile I strongly repeat here that the assessment of the health damage contained in the decree Balduzzi-Clini of 2013, still in force today, is a weapon sprung, exceeded, ineffective and out of context. This decree, issued after the seizure and publication of the updated data of the "Sentieri" study, makes the assessment of health damage dependent on the fact that the values for each of the carcinogenic pollutants emitted by the factory exceed the limits established by law. [[Applause]] This is an unacceptable paradox after eight years. Mr President, I would therefore like formally to urge the relevant Commissions to speed up the discussion of a proposal on the subject, which I signed, which provides for the integrated assessment of environmental damage, regardless of whether the limit values laid down by law are exceeded. The aim is to introduce the integrated environmental and health impact assessment so that it can be included in the next environmental plan. In a more general context it is appropriate to confirm the orientation of the Government Count II of participation of the State in the field, to safeguard the green conversion and the productive diversification of the plant ex Ilva of Taranto that covers above all horizons never experienced. The recent lack of continuity and decisions by the current Government is causing uncertainties, delays, risks of factory accidents, tensions among workers and even layoffs of workers for a simple Facebook post. President, the possible decisions on this plant depend on an appeal for the closure of the hot zone to the Council of State, which will be discussed on 13 May, on the risk of confiscation linked to the sale of the environment process and on a sentence of Italy issued by the European Court of Human Rights in 2019 for the lack of protection measures. Mr President, abolishing criminal immunity was an act of civilisation of a State which has adapted its role of protecting workers and citizens and of respect for those who have also lost their lives within that plant. [[Applause]] On other aspects of the judgment, Italy runs the risk of incurring infringement proceedings. Mr President, Taranto has the right to no longer be a prisoner of the steel plant and it is not yet possible to accept emerging choices. President, the agenda under discussion, with the request to reinstate the criminal shield, offends the civilization of a country and of all those who have won those rights with life. The Movimento 5 Stars, therefore, will strongly express its vote against. [[Applause]] President. - I request permission to give my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u40	I take note of that. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u41	Let's welcome back to Senator Secret, whom we greet.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u43	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u44	Mr Lezzi (Mixed). Mr President, I am voting against the agenda. I listened carefully to the speeches of Forza Italia and the Brothers of Italy, who are more outraged that Ferilli wants to defend from a multinational that treats our country with arrogance than for the work and dignity of a person. [[Applause]] On the agenda, reference is made to the maintenance of the partnership with ArcelorMittal, pretending that two years ago ArcelorMittal did not come to the threats of closing the blast furnaces just because we had carried out a judgment of the Constitutional Court that says that, if the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA) is respected, no criminal immunity is necessary. At that point, when two prosecutors moved, Milan and Taranto, it turned out that ArcelorMittal had already emptied the warehouses, for 500 million euros of Italian money. Remember that factory is rented by ArcelorMittal, who should follow the law and treat with respect the city that hosts it. Here we must finally reach a clear and definitive solution, because, after all the Groups, in this dramatic year, have rinsed their mouths on public health and on the dominance of health over the economy, this still does not apply to Taranto and the Tarantini, who can even die, can also get sick, they can also have representatives, such as League, Brothers of Italy and Forza Italia, who put steel in front of the health of children. [[Applause]] And we are still debating such a scandalous thing in Parliament! Go tell Taranto. Therefore, since once again we are taking smoky, ideological positions on Taranto and without any sound and solid reference to health and the economy, we will vote against it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u45	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Urso, Collina, Laforgia, Sbrollini, Ripamonti, Mallegni, Santillo and Bressa. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u46	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00329, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators, and 1-00338, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators, on the granting of Italian citizenship to Patrick Zaki and on initiatives for his liberation. I note that the G1 agenda was also presented by Senators Verducci, Segre, Montevecchi, Alfieri, Malpezzi, Bernini, De Petris, Pharaoh, Unterberger, Saponara and other Senators. The relevant text is distributed. I call Senator Verducci to explain motion 329.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for almost fifteen months Patrick Zaki, a student and researcher at the University of Bologna, a human rights activist, has been imprisoned in Egyptian prisons for the sole fault of his ideas. Since 7 February 2020 it has been subjected repeatedly, without evidence and without trial, to what is called preventive detention, but which is to all intents and purposes arbitrary detention and a violation of human rights. Patrick was beaten and tortured with electric discharges, as reported by his attorneys. The accusations against him are pretentious and, like him, there are thousands of "prisoners of conscience" (as defined by humanitarian organizations) who have been imprisoned in Egypt in recent years (lawyers, intellectuals, ordinary citizens). Prolonged detention is an intimidating technique that wants to erase and make people forget lives, stories, faces, names, claims. But Zaki's story must not and cannot be erased, because it is an important story, even greater than his personal destiny: it is a story of multiculturalism, of meeting different worlds who want to be together. Zaki is among the hundreds of young people from all over the world who participate in the ban for the European Erasmus Mundus scholarship, he is among the very few who win it and for this reason he arrives in Bologna. Zaki chose Europe and chose Italy, where he could study and be free to express his ideas and beliefs; he became part of something universal, the student and university community. In a letter to his mother a few weeks ago, he wrote: I want to send my love to my classmates and friends in Bologna. I miss my home, the streets, the university. And this feeling of Zaki is reciprocated by a great emotional push that everywhere in Italy has led many municipalities to take action to give him honorary citizenship, as the cities of Bologna and Milan have already done; the conference of the rectors of the universities to formally ask for his immediate release; and over 200,000 citizens to sign the petition supported by many associations for the recognition of Italian citizenship, as asked with a loud voice by the consultation of the students of Emilia-Romagna, to whose community Zaki belongs. The Government's commitment to citizenship in Zaki is what we MEPs are asking for today in this motion which I have the honour to present and which is supported by almost all of the parliamentary groups, each of which I would like to thank. A motion that will become a broader agenda that will hold together both the acts that are being tabled today. Zaki's imprisonment and fate deepens the wound of kidnapping, torture, and the murder of Giulio Regeni. We have a duty never to stop demanding truth and justice from the Egyptian authorities for Julius. [[Applause]] The lives of Giulio and Zaki are linked: both young researchers, both in love with Italy and Egypt. And among the many murals dedicated to them, appeared in these months, there is a very beautiful one that portrays them embraced and smiling, with Julius saying, addressed to Zaki: This time everything will be okay. Well, we have a duty to ensure that this happens, not to leave anything unturned. This motion can save Zaki's life and demonstrate that for Italy the rule of law is an indispensable frontier, not a derogation. To give this motion a special meaning - let me say this, Mr President - is the signature and presence in the Chamber of Senator Liliana Segre. [[Applause]] The name of Liliana Segre next to that of Zaki has an immeasurable value, because the name of Liliana Segre carries with it the enormity of history, the warning against all discrimination, against all totalitarianism, against every violation of human rights and civil rights, against every indifference. Only a few days ago Zaki entrusted to his companion, hidden in the pages of a book, "Hundred years of loneliness," a message written in Italian and addressed to us, which says: I'm still resisting. Thank you for supporting us all. Mr President, once Zaki knows that we have adopted this motion, in the presence of Liliana Segre in this House, he can be proud of Italy, the country he has chosen, and we too, Mr President, will be able to do so when Zaki is finally free again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u48	I call Senator Montevecchi to explain motion No 338.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u49	Mr President, I have signed Senator Verducci's motion because I firmly believe that the granting of Italian citizenship to Patrick Zaki is an act of high symbolic value. The MoVimento 5 Stars and personally I as a citizen of Bologna and as a former student of the University of Bologna, we were contacted immediately the next day and we were told the case of this young student. I have mobilized myself and I thank all the colleagues of the Extraordinary Commission on Human Rights, who, together with me, supported this mobilization in the Commission and who have supported me in my continued promotion of initiatives, not least that of setting up a permanent observatory on the Patrick case. Unfortunately, the observatory has not yet been able to deploy its potential, because, as you know, the Presidency of the Human Rights Commission is currently vacant, as the President has been entrusted with a role of government. [[Applause]] We therefore hope that the Presidency will reconstitute itself as soon as possible in order to continue this valuable work of the Commission on Human Rights, which is part of the wake of a national and international mobilization of which my Bologna has become the leader, with its University, with its teachers, along with all international organizations, among which I feel I particularly recall Amnesty International. [[Applause]] , which has started contests and many initiatives, also a musical marathon, to draw attention to the case of Zaki and to make it clear that our culture is also present alongside Patrick Zaki. The Commission's continued commitment to human rights is also part of an international furrow, because on 18 December 2020 the European Parliament adopted a joint motion for a resolution on human rights violations in Egypt and then the United Nations Human Rights Council, on 12 March 2021, expressed in a note its deep concern about the trajectory of human rights in Egypt. It is therefore in this furrow that today we are finally - I say this, colleagues, with emotion and with emotion, because at some point it seemed almost as if it could not happen anymore - here we are discussing and approving important motions, not only the one that asks the Government to commit itself to being the promoter, at the Presidency of the Republic, of the issuing of a decree granting Italian citizenship to Patrick Zaki, but to go further. In fact, if the granting of Italian citizenship has a highly symbolic value, however, we must continue to pursue the goal of the liberation of Patrick Zaki. [[Applause]] Patrick wants to return to his Bologna, to the squares of Bologna, together with the students, to talk about the future, to exchange opinions on changes, to give life to that incubator of vibrant intelligences of which our students are promoters when they meet in international contexts. The case of Patrick Zaki brings to light an even wider situation of academic freedom, of freedom within universities, of freedom of research, of freedom in academies, which are now being called into question and are in grave danger. This means endangering institutions that spread our knowledge. In addition to the recognition of Italian citizenship, which would clearly increase diplomatic pressure - I would like here to thank our embassy in Cairo, which is already providing maximum assistance to the case and I would like to stress that after the stop at the entrance of foreign observers to the hearings, Italian diplomacy is working to restore international procedural monitoring, to which Egypt cannot escape - the Movimento 5 Stars wanted to present a motion in which to commit the Government to take further concrete steps in order to arrive at a peaceful resolution of the issue and the liberation of Patrick. These are: "To take any further steps with the Egyptian authorities to urge the immediate release of Patrick Zaki" without delay, but - this is the fundamental legal point - to consider the possibility of using the instruments provided for in the United Nations Convention of 10 December 1984 against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. [[Applause]] In fact, as has also been pointed out, in the margin, on the case of Patrick Zaki during hearings in the Commission of the Regions, it is identified as the only concrete legal way to take a path... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] The last 30 seconds, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u50	It was six minutes, and then they came back five.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u51	Montevecchi (M5S). In this motion, I would like to stress another very important issue, namely that Italy should be actively promoting, within an international forum such as the G7, the issue of respect for human rights and the protection of human rights defenders, since individual freedoms and human rights are not negotiable rights and are at the basis of all our relations and our common lives. [[Applause]] We must overcome hypocrisy and courageously bring these issues to international fora, in order to draw everyone's attention and reason together on how to recover this very high and concrete value, not abstract. So, I've signed Senator Verducci's first-signed motion. We in the Movimento 5 Stars have tabled motion No 338 which wants to go further and add important steps, but a job has been done to merge into a single agenda. I would like to thank Senator Verducci and all the political forces who contributed to this effort. That is why I withdraw motion No 338, because the fundamental points have been included on the unitary agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u52	I would like to inform you that, in connection with the presentation of the G1 agenda, as the Senator Montevecchi has just pointed out, motions Nos 329 and 338 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Verducci, I do not want to add anything to what the rapporteur has said in a commendable way and I also share, as a Senator of Bologna and a graduate, like her colleague, at the University of Bologna, the words that Senator Montevecchi said. Today we are called to an act that is very particular; it is not only a matter of expressing solidarity with the person, with Zaki, with a student who in Bologna has indicated himself only for elements of positivity, enthusiasm and commitment. No. Today we are called to a different exercise, ladies and gentlemen, and the presence here of Vice-Minister Sereni reminds us of our duty. Today we are debating the possibility of foreign policy measuring itself with some fundamental issues which are not available to us, including, for example, respect for the individual rights of people. [[Applause]] We, like Egypt, are signatories to a UN Convention of 1984 against torture, inhuman and degrading punishment. We, that is, like Egypt, as a State, have signed a commitment that should bind our country systems. And we see that this boy, for fifteen months, without a condemnation and a specific charge, is found in the prisons of a country, where, moreover, there are worrying similarities with cases of other people - I think of the journalist of "Al Jazeera" - who, for several years, without charges or convictions are in Egyptian prisons. I would like to tell you that we are friends of the Egyptian people. At the end of this debate, there must be no misunderstanding on this point. The Italian people are united with the Egyptian people and we have a clear awareness of Egypt's importance in the Mediterranean. We want to cooperate with Egypt. We know very well that Egypt is important for the stabilisation of Libya, for the energy issues of the Mediterranean, we know that Egypt is a bastion against the risks of terrorism and its expansion in the Mediterranean. It is precisely for this reason that we call on the Egyptian authorities to respect human rights, because it is in no way possible to stain all the elements of positivity that we see in this country, with a behavior that is totally intolerable. We do not want to export democracy, as American President Bush said, because we know that the issue is much more complex, because we know that we are clashing with countries in the world that also have an antithetical religious conception to ours. Therefore, exporting democracy, as if it were possible to do so automatically, is an act that could even be arrogant on our part. There are, however, inalienable rights. There are borders beyond which the foreign policy compromise meets boundaries and barriers. We have reached these limits. We have reached these limits that we cannot in any way cross, because it would mean complicity with attitudes that we consider antihuman. Finally, I say to the Egyptian authorities, thanking also the embassy for what it does in a commendable way, that we have a wound that is not closed, but it is open, that is that of Giulio Regenti, an event on which we did not have an answer in terms of institutional collaborations, as well as we had been promised and as well as we hoped to have, as an authority of the Italian State, Parliament and Government. Colleagues, this act of direction to give citizenship to Patrick Zaki is, therefore, in my opinion, an act of great decorum and dignity of Parliament, which acquires a firm point among all political forces. Where people's individual rights are systematically violated, we must say a word of freedom and truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u54	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u55	Mr President, I greet and thank the Government and Deputy Minister Sereni and thank Mr Verducci. It's good to make a little history, too. On February 7, 2020, more than a year ago, Patrick Zaki was arrested in Cairo. The arrest was as soon as the Egyptian student had set foot in Egypt, where he had returned for a short vacation and to see his parents. He arrived from Bologna, where he had moved since September 2019 to follow a master's degree. After the arrest, 24 hours of blackout, during which, according to complaints from lawyers and activists, Zaki was questioned and tortured. Then, on February 8, the formalization of the state of arrest. Since then he has been in prison in Tora, waiting for trial, after several renewals of protective custody with accusations ranging from subversive propaganda to terrorism, only for some posts on social media, which, moreover, his defense claims to be false. The crimes that have been challenged to him are those of incitement, protests and propaganda for terrorism on their Facebook profile, that is to say of publishing false news with the intention of disturbing social peace, inciting protests against the public authority, supporting the overthrow of the Egyptian state using social networks and inciting violence and terrorism. For those messages, Patrick risks up to twenty-five years in prison. There are also continuous referrals to preliminary hearings by means of measures taken by a judiciary without the most basic guarantees of independence from the executive power. Just a few days ago the Cairo Assize Court renewed the detention of the Egyptian researcher by another forty-five days and was also rejected the request lodged by the defense of a change of judges following the case. Amnesty International estimates that the average time of detention in an Egyptian penitentiary is three hundred and forty-five days, but there are cases that exceed a thousand days. The report "Permanent exceptional state" highlights the casual use by the prosecutor of forms of torture as a means of extorting confessions, as well as complicity in forced disappearances by the national security agency. Finally, the document also states that the prosecutor systematically omits to inform prisoners of their rights, denies them access to lawyers and submits them to coercive interrogations in which they are blindfolded, held in inhumane conditions and threatened with further interrogation and torture by the national security agency. In short, the role of the so-called Supreme Prosecutor for State Security, which is a special branch of the prosecutor responsible for prosecuting crimes affecting the security of the State, has then undergone a significant expansion in the Egyptian judicial system. These violations have a wider impact on other rights, including freedom of expression, association, assembly and political participation, creating a pervasive sense of fear. It has been more than a year since that tragic arrest, but no petition and protest has unfortunately been able to exert such pressure as to lead to its release by the Egyptian Government. Always from the 2016 report it appears evident a progressive increase of abductions of students, activists and demonstrators, even minors, disappeared by the system of repression of the State. So, like Patrick Zaki, there are others. We have to make a choice today. We must take a clear position on the issue of human rights, in the name of a clear adherence to the values of freedom and justice that underpin our Constitution. We must be spokesperson for this battle of civilizations, taking the side of Patrick and all the others who, like him, are unjustly detained in Egypt. The history of Zaki is not an Egyptian affair of which Italy can be disinterested, as also supported by the Ministry of the Interior and the Egyptian press. Some 200,000 signatures were collected and more than 1,000 Italian municipalities voted for Zaki's honorary citizenship. I shall conclude by saying, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, that we must urgently contribute to ensuring that Patrick Zaki has Italian citizenship, because that is the only way we can assert rights of freedom and justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u56	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u57	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the dictionary of the motion and then of the agenda under discussion is that there is an exceptional interest of the Italian State in granting Italian citizenship to student Zaki. Citizenship is belonging to a set of values and principles, by virtue of which one has rights and duties and in a democratic and liberal system these human rights are enforceable. Therefore, the issue of citizenship is linked to an accomplished system of guarantees: the effectiveness of human rights is linked to a system of guarantees anchored to the Constitution, which have the centre of gravity in a right of freedom, in a right of opinion, as has been mentioned, but above all in a right to inviolability of the person, which can be limited only by judicial measures in a system of justified, transparent and appealable guarantees. The vulnus of the story of student Zaki is exactly this. Citizenship provides that one cannot be deprived of freedom without a fair process, or alternatively even before a trial, except with justified requirements that must be open to appeal and cannot be reproduced as a photocopy without the possibility of defence. Freedom and citizenship imply the inviolability of the dignity of the person and, above all, can never be a will of political power, even if legitimized by the vote, deprive or limit the freedom of the people. Citizenship and these rights also imply a right to truth, which belongs to citizens, to the people, to the universality of human rights. That is why we are referring to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and this idea of citizenship, this idea of Europe, which we want to be universal, calls us to a mild right, to a state that is for a mild right. However, this mild right corresponds to the arrogance of our cry, which stands tall and clear, for the freedom of persons, for the protection of their rights, for the inviolability of the dignity of the person. With this motion we also want to affirm the objective that this universality of human rights, which has its roots in the 1948 Declaration (not surprisingly in Paris), will never be able to move according to a parallel convergence, a line parallel to the policies of the States and to the relations between them. With this motion we affirm this objective, this direction, this commitment and that is why, in conclusion, we say that Zaki is one of us, because he is a citizen, he is the owner and participant of this idea of citizenship; therefore, for this reason we affirm that he must have Italian citizenship and we recognize this right as universal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rotolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u59	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, four hundred and thirty-two days in preventive prison; beaten, subjected to electric discharges, threatened, accused of spreading false news, of attacking Egypt's national security, that is, accused of fighting for civil rights in your country where the regime of al-Sisi is in power. Amnesty International considers Patrick Zaki a prisoner of conscience, detained exclusively for his work in favour of human rights and for the political opinions expressed on social media. Other interventions before mine have motivated the adherence to motion 329, which has as first signatory Senator Verducci, whom I thank, namely the request to the Italian Government to grant Italian citizenship to Patrick Zaki, Egyptian researcher, student of the University of Bologna, held in an Egyptian prison since February 7 last year. The battle for Zaki's freedom is a battle of all because the rights of Patrick Zaki are the rights of all. This is a case of arbitrary detention that has affected the public opinion of our country. We are not the only ones who are concerned about human rights violations in Egypt; 31 States have recently signed a declaration to the UN Human Rights Council for what is happening in Egypt. The European Parliament adopted a resolution on human rights violations in Egypt, citing as examples the cases of Giulio Regeni, the Italian researcher killed in Egypt in 2016, and Patrick Zaki. The Egyptian authorities refuse to reveal the number of prisoners in prisons. Non-governmental organisations committed to human rights estimate that the number is 114,000, over twice the maximum capacity indicated by President al-Sisi. Since 2014, at least 165 death sentences have been executed in Egypt. Then there is the murder of Giulio Regenti; yes, the horrendous murder of the Italian researcher kidnapped on January 25, 2016 and found lifeless on February 3, tortured and killed by the Egyptian Security Services. Five years without justice, five years of derailment and reluctance of the Cairo authorities. 11:54 a.m. (Follow RUOTOLO). Colleagues and colleagues, we have a huge problem with relations between our country and Egypt. How we can combine our strategic interests, diplomatic and cooperation relations with Egypt of al-Sisi, responsible for the murder of Giulio Regeni and the illegal detention of Patrick Zaki. The President of the Council, Mario Draghi, gives us an answer when he calls Turkish President Erdoğan a dictator. We must be frank - said President Draghi - in expressing our differences of views, opinions and visions of society and we must also be ready to cooperate to ensure the interests of our country. We have to find the right balance. I ask you, and I ask myself, what is the right balance with Egypt's illegal imprisonment of Patrick Zaki and who is responsible for the murder of Giulio Regeni. We know that the second Fremm frigate, destined for the Egyptian Navy, is en route to Egypt and we are supporting the Egyptian regime in fact with military supplies. We cannot sell weapons to a country where human and civil rights are violated. [[Applause]] Colleagues and colleagues, we have a duty to ask for truth and justice for Giulio Regeni and today approving the motion for the Italian citizenship of Patrick Zaki we commit the Government to undertake any further initiative with the Egyptian authorities to urge its immediate release. The commitment we make today is to fight for Patrick Zaki to be able to embrace as soon as possible, as a free man, his family, his friends and his companions at the University of Bologna. Dear Zaki, we're not leaving you alone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u60	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Verducci and Mrs Montevecchi for the very important document we are debating today. Of course, I thank Senator Segre for being here with us to remind us of the importance of human rights. The repression of critical thinking and the compression of human rights are still too widespread; I am thinking not only of al-Sisi's Egypt, but also of Erdoğan's Turkey, of Prince bin Salman's Saudi Arabia. Think of the brutal assassination of Jamal Khashoggi, the territories occupied by Israel in Palestine, Myanmar of the military coup junta. When one hears about human rights, today we are increasingly referring to something abstract and far away, an ideal to be pursued only because it is right to carry it forward, because certain social conventions tell us that it is appropriate to do so. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, human rights are not negotiable and Parliament today wants to give a clear and strong signal in this regard. [[Applause]] We are privileged, we are lucky enough to live in a part of the world where we do not have to worry about what we say and what we think, we are free to write a post on a social or to manifest in the streets against what is unfair to us. Our students can research every subject, we can freely profess our faith, without fear of repercussions on the part of the State. Colleagues and colleagues, let us take a moment to really reflect on what this means and, even more so, what it would mean not to have these possibilities. Human rights are a constituent element of peace, which is not only the absence of conflict, but also the creation of just systems that guarantee social peace, the rule of law and the fundamental freedoms of all individuals. However, there are, unfortunately, many cases where the basic foundations of a free and modern state fail to protect citizens. I want to remember with pain the countries in which women are subjected to horrible genital mutilation and those that punish individuals for their sexual orientation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will never forget the barbaric killing of our Giulio Regeni, on which we will never cease to ask for truth and justice. [[Applause]] In fact, we risk making an unforgivable mistake, taking fundamental freedoms for granted and becoming increasingly anesthetized in the face of injustices. The proliferation of cases of physical and psychological torture in the world must not leave indifferent, just because they are far from us. Today, as has been said, we face the very painful episode of the kidnapping - because this is what it is - of Patrick Zaki, an Egyptian citizen, detained since February 2020 in prison in Egypt, without a fair trial. The reason for the detention would be some social posts, which for Cairo were enough to put Patrick in custody. With a series of farce hearings, which are clearly a criminal offence, Zaki has been deprived of freedom for fifteen months now, in a way that violates every basic principle of the rule of law. His lawyers reported that he was blindfolded and handcuffed for hours while being questioned by torture professionals. As happened for Regens, Zaki was subjected to electric shocks and beatings, so as not to leave traces on the body. Egypt, as Senator Casini also said, has a geopolitical role of fundamental importance at international and even more local level, but no political and economic role can ever justify certain medieval methods. History has given us international tools to ensure that some lines are never exceeded and to ensure that every human being could live a life worthy of being called such. This is the case with the Convention against Torture adopted by the United Nations in 1984. Egypt has been a party to the Convention since 1986, but it does not seem to observe its founding principles. I conclude by saying that what happened to Zaki, like so many other activists, journalists and students, must upset us and frighten us. It is precisely this fear, that same fear that Zaki lives every day, that must move us not only to condemn these inhuman practices, but also and above all to ask for a solution with force, so that no one should ever again serve the weight of denied freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u62	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u63	Mr President, Senators and Senators, the Government has been following the case of Patrick George Zaki very closely since the first hours following the arrest of the young man and fully shares the concern expressed by the parliamentary act in question, also in the light of the further extension of his custody following the hearing on 5 April. The awareness-raising action on the Egyptian authorities, which we have carried out and continue to carry out both bilaterally - in particular, through our embassy in Cairo - and in the multilateral forum, is ongoing: we urge the Egyptian counterparts on every occasion of confrontation to release the student. We also follow directly the evolution of the process. At our request, in fact, the judicial proceedings against the student were included in the EU's procedural monitoring programme, a few days after his arrest. We have insisted at all levels that the European mechanism described above and coordinated by the European Union, which had been suspended before the summer for the risks related to Covid, be reactivated as soon as possible, not only for Zaki, but for all cases qualified as sensitive. It is, in our view, a fundamental instrument for the promotion of human rights. This position was shared by the European Union delegation to Cairo and the mechanism was immediately applied to the case of the Egyptian student and others. Even in the months when the mechanism was almost completely inactive due to the epidemiological situation, a group of European and non-European countries maintained constant monitoring of Patrick's case. This was due to the tenacious awareness-raising work carried out by our embassy in Cairo, which continued to send its own official to the hearings, involving other European and international partners from time to time. Thanks to this incessant action, the last hearings have participated, in various forms, in addition to Italian diplomats, officials from France, Germany, Spain, Belgium, Holland, Denmark, the United States and Canada. Even at the most recent hearing on 5 April, even in the circumstances linked to the choice of the young man's defence not to attend the hearing to support the request for a replacement of the panel, an official of our embassy in Cairo went to the court together with his colleagues from France and Canada, while the United States deposited a letter to point out their attention to the case. Italy has brought the issue of respect for human rights in the country to the attention of the European Union and the UN Human Rights Council. On 18 December, the European Parliament adopted a resolution explicitly quoting Regeni and Zaki calling for an independent investigation of human rights in Egypt. On 25 January, the fifth anniversary of the seizure of Giulio Regeni, Minister Di Maio spoke at the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union to ask the Union to make use of the instruments at its disposal to ensure that Cairo makes concrete progress on fundamental rights. During the high-level segment of the 46th session of the UN Human Rights Council on 24 February, Minister Di Maio again raised the case of the young man requesting his release. We have also signed the joint declaration on Egypt and the human rights situation in the country, given in the Human Rights Council on 11 March by Finland, on behalf of 31 countries including the United States, while on 12 March, on our initiative, a specific reference was inserted to the student's story in the speech given by the European Union to the Council. It is important to stress that the Government's commitment concerns not only the case of Patrick Zaki, but also all human rights issues in the country and beyond. For years we have been carrying out consistent and constant work to defend the centrality of the person and his protection, in Egypt as well as in the world, in line with our established foreign policy priorities and the values on which they are based: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and the protection of human rights. These are values on which we do not go back, having very clear the overall picture of bilateral relations. Although the relations with Cairo remain strongly compromised by the dramatic story of our compatriot Regeni and therefore weakened until full truth is made about this case, Egypt remains a crucial country on issues such as the stabilisation of Libya, the Eastern Mediterranean, collaboration in the fight against terrorism and illicit trafficking, the management of migratory flows, as has been recalled here by both Senator Casini and Senator Ferrara. But it doesn't go back on values. With reference to the possible attribution of Italian citizenship to Zaki, we recognize the ideal, symbolic and humanitarian scope of the possible gesture, as well as the many other initiatives that have followed in recent months by local authorities, NGOs and associations, testifying to the sensitivity of Italian civil society on these issues; a sensitivity in which the Government's action is reflected and used in order to reaffirm its firmness in the matter of human rights in every bilateral and multilateral forum. However, I would like to stress the importance that the motion before us today, in the text we have just tabled - a text on which I take the opportunity to express the Government's favourable opinion - also refers to the need to verify all the conditions with a view to the possible granting of citizenship. I would like to draw attention here to the need for an in-depth assessment of the circumstances in which this possible recognition would fit in. I invite myself and all of us to reflect, in particular, on two points. In the preamble, consideration should be given to the fact that the attribution of Italian citizenship to Zaki would ultimately be regarded as a symbolic measure without any practical effect to protect the person concerned. Even in the light of international law and principles, Italy would encounter, in fact, considerable difficulties to provide consular protection to the young man, being also an Egyptian citizen, because it would prevail the original citizenship, principle applied moreover by Egypt in a particularly strict way. Even more important is the risk, to be evaluated, of negative effects on the goal that is most important to us: to get the release of Patrick. In this sense, the granting of citizenship could - I say "could" - for this reason we ask and accept the idea of verification - even prove counterproductive and it is the responsibility of all of us to reflect on this. The Government will continue to follow the Zaki case with the utmost attention, in conjunction with the partners who support many Italy's action in this field. We will pursue every possible bilateral awareness-raising initiative within the framework of European coordination and at multilateral level, in order to achieve the objective we all work towards: the release of Patrick. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u66	Senator, excuse me, but I have to invite colleagues in private conversations to keep at least a low tone of voice. I can't hear who's intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u67	You have the floor, Senator Unterberger.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u68	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, Patrick Zaki has been imprisoned without trial for more than four hundred days. Eleven times the court has extended the preventive imprisonment; yet 3,000 people in Egypt have left the prison for the Covid-19, but there is no Patrik among them, despite the health problems. What, then, would be the immense crime committed by this boy, so much so that he was heeded by the Egyptian Services while studying in Bologna, arrested as soon as he landed in Egypt, subjected to atrocious torture and finally transferred to a maximum security prison? What is so serious that the Egyptian authorities are completely deaf to the demands of Italy and Europe, to the protests, to the appeals of humanitarian organizations? Nothing, except a regime that has once been able - as the mother of Giulio Regeni said - to all the evil of the world; a paranoid regime that lives as an intolerable threat to young educated people who are allergic to prejudice and injustice. This is why, thinking of Patrick, not only does Reni come to mind, but Antonio Megalizzi, Fabrizia Di Lorenzo and Valeria Solesin also come to mind. It is precisely by thinking of them that Patrick is, in effect, an Italian and European citizen. It is because with his young, but intense journey of life he has cultivated the same founding values of our societies. We have, therefore, a moral bond, as we owe a very great debt to Giulio Regeni and his family. As Luigi Manconi wrote, here is not at stake a utopian idealism opposed to the realism of the reason of State. A state expresses its legitimacy through a few, but clear elements and, among them, there is the defense of the safety of its citizens and, therefore, no psychological subjection to a regime where dissidents are tortured and where appeals to the search for truth are systematically disregarded. In recent times there are fragments of an aggressiveness of illiberal regimes towards Italy and Europe. I am thinking not only of Egypt, but also of the story of Russian espionage and Erdogan's rudeness. The feeling is that, beyond words, little or nothing is done to restore due correctness in relations with those countries. Mr President, I therefore believe that the work of the Senate should not end with the approval of this motion. A few months ago, some colleagues wrote to you asking for a Senate mission to the prison where Zaki is detained. I believe that this request is more appropriate than ever. Enough with the word ballets! Europe, Italy and also the Senate take charge of an initiative for the liberation of Zaki. The recognition of Italian citizenship is only the first step. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u71	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Sereni, Bologna, Florence, Bari, Milan, Procida, Bisceglie, Udine, Lauria, Pisa are among the more than 200 Italian cities, from North to South, from East to West, which welcomed the appeal of civil society and said they were ready to confer honorary citizenship to the young student Patrick Zaki. Many of these cities have already resolved. To them are added hundreds of thousands of signatures collected by activists of different associative realities to send together a sign of closeness to the boy and his family and to strongly ask the Government to confer, in turn, the Italian honorary citizenship to Patrick Zaki, so as to have even more legitimacy in demanding from Egypt its liberation. Today we make our own with conviction the request of the many Italian administrations and of the many citizens who have already mobilized themselves to ask that the young researcher be released and can return to his studies. Some colleagues have already said it well: Patrick is one of us; Patrick is our student, enrolled at the University of Bologna, the oldest university in the world, yet so modern in teaching us today the universal value of the defence of rights, including above all the protection of freedom, but also the right to study; that right that Patrick was exercising as a researcher and that was denied him the night between 6 and 7 February last year, when he was arrested at Cairo airport, because accused by the Egyptian Government of spreading false news through his social channels and of attacking national security. Until then Patrick was a young man without borders, a son of the world, just like the many of our boys and girls who leave each year to expand their knowledge and knowledge. We're asking here today that Patrick be allowed to be again. We ask that the Italian Government give itself to Egypt to let him study in Italy, free to learn and free to choose how to live his life. At the same time, we ask that Egypt finally provide clarification on the story of our other young Italian researcher, in turn arrested by the Egyptian police in a completely unmotivated way and then unfortunately brutally killed: Giulio Regeni; that Giulio Regeni for whom the truth about the ignoble end that has been reserved for him is not yet known. The fate of the children is necessarily intertwined and both are deeply attached to us. Aware of the reflections that the deputy minister Sereni has just told us, however, we believe that conferring honorary Italian citizenship to Patrick Zaki would be a clear signal to the Egyptian authorities, a way to give more strength to our institutions in the claim of release of Zaki and in the request of truth about the case of Regens. We believe that it would be not only a symbolic fact, but also an objective instrument through which to make legal assistance easier for the boy. Patrick has been in pre-trial detention since the day of his arrest, over a year ago, without any reasonable grounds; the crimes accused of Zaki actually refer to legitimate activities of complaint or normal critical comment. Until now, he has never been charged with a trial; indeed, the days of imprisonment are renewed, forty-five days of imprisonment from time to time; and unfortunately, the protective custody - as happened for many other activists before him - can be postponed indefinitely, to the point that the risk is that Patrick remains in prison for a long time, even to life imprisonment. That is why this choral mobilization in favour of the conferral of honorary citizenship on Patrick Zaki, and therefore in favour of his liberation, is so important. The accusations that are made to him are the same for which people have been incarcerated who carried out activities completely legitimate under international law; accusations used in art in Egypt in recent years to arrest hundreds of activists, researchers, lawyers, representatives of human rights organizations. With this motion we indirectly also call on Egypt to respect human rights for the many prisoners unjustly detained in their prisons, through their release, because we know that unfortunately there are many in Egypt who are in the same conditions. There freedom of thought is repressed and too often the rights of those who dare to express their dissent are trampled on, through arrest. This motion therefore also wants to be a sign of solidarity with those who are being held in prison for no reason, perhaps only because they are suspected of being part of movements that are fighting to defend human rights. So, Madam President, I would like to express a warm and heartfelt thanks to the many who have committed themselves to this act of direction and to what the Government has done so far to promote the release of Patrick Zaki. Special thanks go to the officials of the Farnesina, both in Rome and Cairo, who are working to be close and helping young Patrick Zaki at this stage of arrest. In expressing these thanks, on behalf of my Group I am voting in favour of the motion that we are about to vote on. We ask the Italian Government to spend money on awarding honorary citizenship to Patrick Zaki. We call for the greatest effort to continue to demand, in all institutional fora, from the European fora, its release. And at the same time we also ask for Italy's greatest commitment to finally get the truth about the death of Giulio Regeni. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u74	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, Senator colleagues and fellow senators, the story of Patrick Zaki challenges the consciences of all of us and the whole free world: a young student, who has been detained for four hundred and thirty-two days for alleged crimes and in any case of opinion; an activist for human rights and civil rights held illegally, without evidence, with very serious accusations, only for expressing his ideas and for defending the rights of minorities, civil rights and political rights of his fellow citizens. It is a very serious fact for which today, rightly, the Senate undertakes to do everything possible in order to obtain the liberation of this young man, like that of many others persecuted, in Egypt and in the world. Speaking of Patrick Zaki, we are reopening - as other colleagues have recalled - a wound never healed, which is that of Giulio Regeni, tortured and murdered five years ago, for which still Italy and the whole free world await justice and rightly condemn the depiracy, the obstructionism, the omerty of the Egyptian authorities. However, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must consider this further and I thank the Government for pointing this out. In other words, we must ask ourselves whether really the best way to help Patrick and achieve the main, priority and absolute objective that we must all propose, namely his liberation and the return of freedom not only personal, but also to express his ideas and opinions, both to propose and confer Italian citizenship on him. Deputy Minister pointed this out and I thank you. Article 9 of Law No 91 of 1992 on citizenship is very clear and says that Italy can grant Italian citizenship to a foreigner in only two specific cases: if the foreigner has performed eminent services in favour of Italy, or when there is an exceptional interest of the State. The example that comes to mind is that of the two boys, Adam and Ramy, who in 2019 managed to foil with great courage the hijacking of a bus, saving their lives probably to tens and dozens of their peers. In that case, certainly there were the conditions for giving citizenship to those two young people, and we, as Brothers of Italy, argued that it was right to do so, even when others raised doubts and perplexities. Well, I wonder if at this moment when Patrick is still in Egypt, it is useful to give him Italian citizenship and if it is not an act of provocation against Egypt that could have the effect of stiffening the Egyptian authorities rather than favoring their liberation. The Egyptian State, reading our law, might ask what are the eminent services that Patrick has performed in favor of the Italian State. We could even get the paradoxical result of confirming Egypt and the Egyptian judicial authority in their suspicions. That's the risk we're taking. The right path - in our opinion - was another one and I want to say it clearly: it was the one indicated in the motion, then unfortunately withdrawn, to which we would have given a favourable vote, signed by Senators Montevecchi, Licheri and others. The right path is to pursue the diplomatic route in every appropriate place. The right way was, as it was, to mobilize the European Parliament, to request and obtain the intervention of the United Nations, to appeal - as is said in the motion unfortunately withdrawn - to the 1984 United Nations Convention against Torture. It is certainly a more difficult job, which gives less space to the media, perhaps less suitable to obtain easy consent, but certainly - in our opinion - much more useful to the objective of freeing this boy. I would like to thank the Government sincerely for the communication that it has given us today, because it is precise, timely and responsible, which really takes account of the context, not propaganda, but aimed at the only useful objective that we want to achieve. I thank the Government for the commitment it has always made in defense of Patrick Zaki; for the commitment it has always made to get the truth and justice for the murderers of Giulio Regeni. I thank, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy, our diplomatic representations in Cairo, who have always held high attention to the procedural phases that concerned the continuous postponements of Patrick's liberation and the continuous confirmations of the preventive detention, which in reality is a real penalty, very serious, and there is nothing preventative in this. I would also like to point out, however, that, unfortunately, Egypt is not the only country in the world where human, civil and political rights are trampled underfoot. It is right to fight for Patrick, but it is right to fight for all the other millions of cases in the world of people under the same conditions as Patrick. It would make no sense to grant citizenship when millions of people are in the same conditions. Let's think about what's going on in Hong Kong, Myanmar, China. Let us think, ladies and gentlemen, of what is happening in Cuba, because we will shortly be voting on a commendable motion on Cuba, in which there is not a single line condemning the violation of human, civil and political rights in that country, Shame! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why we, unfortunately, are forced to abstain on the agenda presented unanimously by the majority political forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u77	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we should start with a fair thank you to those who wanted to promote the agenda in question, with a confrontation work within the majority forces, demonstrating that this is perhaps also the first act, beyond what the Government has done, expressed by a Parliamentary House on a subject that has become symbolic. We are not talking, in fact, only about the human, already dramatic, story of Zaki and his family: we are talking about a theme that has evidently assumed a symbolic value, that goes beyond the borders of Egypt, beyond the borders of our country and has become a European and world case. When you talk about Zaki, you talk about the hundreds of thousands of people whose human rights, not only in Egypt, but in many countries, are not respected. You are talking about cases of violation, use of excessive force, actual torture and abuse. And it is clear that, as with all symbolic cases, all this has consequences are not, but difficult to deal with. The symbolic cases become an opportunity for media debate, for collecting signatures, appeals and fortunately also for mobilization and a live public opinion in European countries. And so it was for Zaki. But the counterattack is that the case becomes symbolic also for those countries that instead do not respect human rights and tend to stiffen, evidently, in the face of cases of this kind. So it is really difficult for diplomacy and governments to reconcile those two principles that often clash in international politics: the battle for civil rights and human rights - a universal battle - and, on the other hand, the principle of sovereignty that tends to close borders and not respect those human rights. We are in a very complicated and difficult situation as a government that believes in those rights, believes in the protection of human rights, fights and does extraordinary work. We have done this at all levels, because we have done it as an Italian civil society, starting with the Municipality of Bologna, which has combined - this is the important message - the case of Patrick Zaki with that of Regeni, demonstrating that we do not distinguish between Italian citizens and citizens who come from different stories. [[Applause]] For us, the battle of human rights is done at all latitudes and we do it also towards friendly countries, with which there is a long and consolidated relationship. When there was the case of George Floyd, killed by an American policeman, we intervened and said it clearly: we are a United States friendly country, but at the same time - because we are friends and there is a consolidated relationship - we feel obliged to denounce when some of the most elementary rights are not respected. It is obvious and we do so also in cases that, unfortunately, have occurred inside the barracks or Italian prisons. It's a battle we have to do at all levels. We did it as a civil society and we did it in European fora. I remember the passage in the European Parliament when we recalled the need for the release of all the activists who manifest in Egypt for freedom of expression, freedom of the press and sexual orientation; all those freedoms that are sculpted in our Constitution and in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. We did so at the United Nations on 12 March 2021, when together with other countries, including the United States, we recalled the need to release all political prisoners, all activists, those who are fighting for human rights in Egypt. And he did so - as he recalled before - Marina Sereni as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, as Embassy in Italy, following step by step the legal story of Zaki and sending an official of the embassy to follow all the steps. We are mobilized to the highest degree and at all levels. Why also the demand for citizenship? As I said before, Patrick Zaki's story has taken on a symbolic value and we wanted to say very clearly that we do not make distinctions, regardless of citizenship. Then, by announcing my explanation of vote, in which I will vote in favour of the women and men of the Democratic Party, I want to make two considerations: the first is that this must be a cultural battle, before it is political. We move in a complicated and difficult quadrant like that of the Eastern Mediterranean, where it is inevitable to maintain channels of cooperation with Turkey and Egypt; a fundamental territory for the stability and security of Europe and our country, where Turkey and Egypt are fundamental partners in the fight against Islamic terrorism and in the fight against the trafficking of human beings and weapons. From this point of view, a channel of dialogue must be kept open by the Government. At the same time, this cannot and must not prevent us, especially at parliamentary level, from putting in place a very strong initiative to protect human rights. It is clear that we clash - as I said before - that complicated and difficult dialectic that we live day by day between respect for the sovereignty and choices of individual countries and a universal battle such as that on human rights, but this must not make us retrocede. We have a duty to go ahead and do this battle, especially within the parliamentary classrooms. There is a significant change from the past, as Biden's victory in the United States opens a new phase in the Mediterranean. I say this because the risk that some declamations on the respect of human rights by European countries end up being volious is concrete and let's face it clearly without hypocrisies. Having the United States next door is crucial and we have seen the change of pace between the Trump-led American Administration and the Biden-led one: Trump set relationships, especially bilaterally, on logics of force, while with Biden we return to the multilateral method and this is definitely a remarkable step forward. The call that the President of the United States has made to the community of liberal democracies helps to perimeter the field and to have behind Europe the United States thus returning to guarantee not only international security, but also respect for some fundamental values of liberal democracies, such as freedom of expression, press and sexual orientation, which are carved into the Constitutions of liberal democracies. From this point of view, this is a significant step forward that we must take advantage of. Biden's first exits towards Saudi Arabia - for example - and the Gulf monarchies, with the stop and suspension of some arms supplies because they are committed to bombing Yemen's communities without minimum standards of respect for human rights, say a lot about the signal that was intended to be launched, namely that there are no more blank cheques for the country led by al-Sisi. The same Blinken, the new Secretary of State, spoke very clearly when three activists of the non-governmental organization to which Patrick Zaki adheres had the courage to meet 13 European diplomats (in the end they were released). Blinken took a very strong position, saying that it is not a crime to meet European diplomats. A new phase is therefore being opened, also favoured by the rise of the new American leadership, and we must take advantage of it. How? We must enable the Government to do its battle directly at bilateral level, but also at European level and in all fora, both at NATO and UN level. I recall that the Atlantic Pact was born not only with the need to ensure the stability and security of our continent, but also to bring together a community that shared common values and principles. We must move within this narrow path. We share the motion proposed by my colleague, Mr Verducci, with awareness, drawing on tradition, history and our origins, which, as written in the Talmud, "Who saves a life saves the whole world." I think that we must always refer to this when we fight for human rights. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u80	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Madam President, I would also like to thank my fellow Members, Mr Verducci and Mr Montevecchi, and all those who have contributed substantially to promoting a debate on a matter that is at our heart and which - as today's debate also shows - is at the crossroads of political forces. The theme is heartfelt because we are talking about the story of Patrick Zaki, a boy who we feel ours to the point of asking for Italian citizenship for him, demonstrating the thread that unites us with him and that he himself feels on the level of his belonging, which I would like to say double because not only to his country of origin, but also to ours. However, we must avoid - as we are obviously not doing in this debate, luckily - demeaning the story of Zaki to that of a boy. That of Patrick Zaki is not simply the story of a boy (of course, with the word "simply" among many quotes) illegally held for fifteen months, just as the story of Giulio Regenti was not and is not that of a boy unjustly killed. If we deruked it into a single story, we would not understand the nature of it and we would not be able to deal in the best way with a delicate discussion that involves more plans. It is the story of a country, ours, which, as I said, welcomed the student Zaki and feels Patrick as his son, even to ask, as we are doing today, for Italian citizenship. However, it is a history of relations between countries and diplomatic relations in defence of human rights. We do not and must not have the claim - to use an expression that was dramatically in vogue in the 1990s - to export democracy, but we must be aware of the role and function of a country like ours in the world, so much so as to demand the defence and respect of civil rights and human rights, when these should not be respected by other countries, even by those with whom we have rightly and legitimately economic, commercial and diplomatic relations. I say this because a passage such as today's, which must make the whole solemnity of this instrument felt, is not simply an act of direction, but the expression of the Italian Parliament calling for Italian citizenship for a boy who has been imprisoned, tortured and unjustly detained, who cannot be entitled to a trial and who has no contact with the rest of the world. If we do not take it from this point of view, today's passage is not the vote on a motion or an act of direction, but it becomes a motion of affection which we can do little about solving problems, but above all the possibility of putting at the centre the major issues we are discussing. This is not simply the story of a boy, nor that of our country, and it is not just about our country, and as has already been said. We are talking about something that has hit Europe; it is a debate that has hit the world. A European Parliament resolution, which was mentioned in previous speeches and voted on on 18 December 2020, makes three statements: the first is to require restrictive measures for Egyptian officials responsible for more serious violations, because impunity cannot be a sustainable democratic element; we cannot consider democracy a country that shelters its torturers, who suffer serious crimes such as those we are discussing. Secondly, the resolution denounces Egypt's attempt to obstruct investigations into Giulio Regeni. This aspect has also been mentioned: the story of Patrick Zaki is linked with that of Giulio Regenti, because it concerns not only the claim of respect for civil rights and human rights, but an issue that is even overpaying compared to these, that is, the one of truth, and we on Giulio Regini continue to ask the truth and we must continue to do so. The motion also calls for cooperation with Egypt to be made conditional on progress in democratic reforms, the rule of law and human rights. In this sense, our work is not a motion of affection, but an entirely political work, which means diplomacy, because it involves the sphere of relations between countries, and it still means asking this to Egypt, as we have happened and we will have to reappear, for example, to ask Turkey for the same thing, thus making cooperation subordinate to its return to the Istanbul Convention. We discussed this a short time ago. It is a relationship that we must establish with countries to which we do not and must not claim to teach democracy, but on which we must set our feet and use all available weapons to demand respect for rights. In this sense, Mr President, the question, which I would call uncomfortable, is: where does the realpolitik end and where does the sacred request, which I think we are all making, begin to respect human rights? I still ask where ends our country's legitimate will to consider itself a friend of Egypt and to continue to maintain commercial relations and where begins, after this, the claim of truth and respect for rights for Zaki, but also the claim, as I said before, of the truth about Giulio Regenti. I would like to express my personal opinion, for which I take responsibility, on one point which perhaps has not been mentioned by others in this debate. When I say that we must use all the weapons available to get the truth, I also mean to use as a rather extreme, but effective weapon, that of imagining even the withdrawal of the Italian diplomatic mission in Egypt, in the face of a refusal of collaboration on the part of that country to help ours to shed light on what happened to Giulio Regenti and above all, then, for the liberation of Patrick Zaki, of which we are reasoning today. Finally, as Mr Ruotolo said, how does the contradiction between claiming all this and not providing - as we should not do, if we want to be consistent - military procurement to Egypt? There are contradictions which concern us, which affect the Government and our Parliament and for which we must feel responsibility, in relation to the possibility of dissolving them. If we do not want the motion that we are debating to become simply a way of washing our conscience - and it is not - but we want to make an effective contribution to the liberation of Zaki, we have to face the debate precisely in this respect. Mr President, in conclusion, I think that this first step should be considered as such, in order to ask for citizenship, but also to commit all the energies available to demand the liberation of Zaki and the truth about Giulio Regeni, as well as to make the decisive contribution of Italy to enter a new season of the world, made up of respect for rights, peace and freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u83	CRAXI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are debating here today is the essence of our living in democratic institutions and it shapes the very way of conceiving international relations and our presence on the international scene. Freedoms and human rights do not know borders or political color, nor do they have to be used in the various circumstances, political polemics or conflict between nations, but they are a patrimony of humanity which, except declarations and conventions, we consider ethically binding and on which there can be no distractions or compromises. The story of Patrick Zaki, who has been going on for over a year, has shaken consciences all over the world, or rather in that part of the free world, the West, of which we are an integral part, not only for geographical reasons, but also for cultural and valuable belonging. It has shaken even more our country, Italy, in which young Zaki studied and had found his affections. In dealing with this debate and the vote that Parliament will be voting on the text in our examination, it must be made clear that it is not a question of opening yet another front of conflict with the Egyptian authorities, after the tragic affair of Giulio Regeni, who - I will say this too - still calls for truth. It is a question of reaffirming the inviolability, at every latitude of the globe, of the human rights accorded to each individual man. Personally - I hope not to scandalize the beautiful souls - I do not context the right of a sovereign country, beyond its form of government, to judge one of its citizens. Context, as enshrined in the Charter of Human Rights, that an individual may be suspended his or her inalienable rights, especially by virtue of his or her political views; therefore, judicial proceedings must be fair - it is so, if it is so in time - and without discrimination. We note that Zaki is living a judicial affair that is not clear, non-transparent and unfair. Deprived of his legitimate rights of defence - of a fair trial, we would say - he suffers a sometimes humiliating detention for his person. I remember that Marco Pannella did not miss an opportunity to remember and remind us that where there is massacre of law, there is massacre of peoples. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the issue on which we are called upon to engage in a political battle. Do not think, even in the goodness of your ideas, that we can enter into the merit of the nature of the many countries that, from the Mediterranean to the Middle East, passing through the Far East, present characters and forms of a-democratic government. We are called to defend the values enshrined in the International Conventions, the recognised basis of our civilization, which are the natural basis of our constitutional order and the Republic. We can and must do this by linking our relations and the development of our economic and diplomatic relations with respect for human rights and the release of political prisoners. We must do so so much with the countries we consider weak, as with the strong ones, including China, on which many of the same screamers of the defence of human rights in the Mediterranean then lose their voice, ready to applaud the new ways of silk, forgetting the religious persecution of Muslims, Buddhists, Falun gongs and Christians, perpetuated in recent years by Beijing. [[Applause]] Let us not forget our history and the conquests of civilizations of which our country has been an interpreter. In fact, in the past Italy has had the political and institutional strength to defend the rights of oppressed peoples in every place, even in front of the American ally. Perhaps some of you, I think few, will remember the words of the then President of the Council, Bettino Craxi, at the American Congress, about the Chilean repression. We must also defend and subordinate ourselves to respect for human rights not only in the Zaki case, but also when we are called upon to determine and develop Community policies. I confess to you that I felt very embarrassed last December when the trade agreement between the European Union and China was signed. We had to demand that respect for basic human rights should be an important part of that agreement, which was approved at the photofinish by the German Presidency, not even taking into account the dictates of the European Parliament. We saw the results last week with a group of representatives and MEPs sanctioned by Beijing. This is therefore the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to address the nodes and cornerstones around which to rebuild our foreign policy. I personally welcomed President Draghi's words as a realpolitik on our necessary international relations and the frankness with which, however, he called things by their name. I believe and hope that this institutional formula of national emergency can serve to reset some disbandments of the recent past, to reconnect our Atlantic bond, to relaunch our indispensable presence in the enlarged Mediterranean area, where the world balances are still being played. Egypt, to whose people we have feelings of great friendship, like so many other realities on the South shore, has been and can return to being - in the clarity of relations and in respect of those fundamental rights that I recalled - a reliable partner of Italy for the stabilisation of the area and for the development of fruitful relations. I believe that the agenda we are debating, in order to start, through the competent institutions, the necessary checks in order to give Patrick Zaki Italian citizenship, can be a way of giving attention to the issue (which, I would say, is one of the many that are consumed in silence and among the indifference of the most in many parts of the world). Allow me and allow us, however, to be strongly sceptical that this may be the road leading to the liberation of Zaki and the solution of his affair; indeed, our fear is that it will trigger a new and higher legal litigation on the matter, exasperate the tones and souls and prolong the unjust detention of Zaki, to whose condition we want to give an answer and not already crusaders on his skin. It is a perplexity that we share with the deputy minister Sereni and with my colleague Senator Balboni, but we want to put to the record, not only to future memory, but because we have the duty to abandon the prevailing rhetoric, which, especially on foreign policy issues, has already done so much damage to Italy. I acknowledge the Government, on this particular occasion, that it has done so. In fact, we cannot replace a good and authoritative foreign policy and the political and diplomatic action of a great country, as Italy must be, with legal escamotage. In announcing the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group, I also believe that the one indicated in the text, that is to urge the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its articulations to develop any further diplomatic initiative that leads to the resolution of the matter as soon as possible, is the best way and the one likely to bring more results. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u86	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr. Undersecretary, we particularly appreciate the pragmatism and also your very correct description of the facts and risks that can be prefigured, even at the outcome of our debate, with respect to the person of Patrick Zaki himself, but also to those who, like him, in Egypt or in other countries, live in situations of compulsion and lack of respect for freedom. Today's debate is an important one, because it deals with fundamental rights, freedom and human rights, so you can't joke about it and you have to avoid any rhetorical slide or risk of exploitation. And you, Mr Undersecretary, on behalf of the Government have made it very clear that the same outcome as the agenda, which we are all about to vote on, can have a distorting effect on the rescue conditions for which it was presented. I am referring to the fact that the Egyptian Government could read as a provocation the granting of Italian citizenship for the reasons - which we know well - included in the law. We must be very determined to enforce human rights and to demand that international institutions, which should be responsible for enforcing them, play their part to the full, avoiding in any case the error of considering this as a bilateral action between Italy and another country: these are not trade agreements, but fundamental values, which, precisely as such, cannot be traded, therefore must be enforced. I am thinking first of all of the European institutions, of the High Commissioner for European Foreign Policy, but of course also of the United Nations Organization, which unfortunately - and I say three times, unfortunately - appears to be completely evaporated. It cannot be an initiative only by Italy, but it certainly has a duty to raise the issue, where rights are trampled on. Let us not hide that behind this debate we can see, clearly and clearly, the figure of Reni and how still today that wound is open. There is no doubt, however, that everything cannot be brought back - I repeat - to a relationship between Italy and Egypt. We need the actions to be well thought out, so we are counting on the Government to take account of the outcome of our debate and the vote, in which we are going to vote in favour, but it is also very clear that there are risks. Before Senator Balboni pointed out that there is a risk that with this debate it will slip towards bad interpretations; we are already beyond the risk: the debate has taken place, the issues have been raised, by whom in one way and by whom in the other, but certainly in the Egyptian ear our opinion will come, and also strong. It will now be a matter of managing it diplomatically, as the Farnesina must do and as well as our representatives abroad must do, so that the outcome of this is the release of Patrick Zaki. I would like to correct what is on the agenda, not simply by providing (as we read in point 4) for a commitment to take action at European Union level to urge institutions and Member States to demand that Egypt and other countries in which human rights violations continue to be widespread concrete improvements on this issue; instead of mere concrete improvements, we should demand respect for human rights, since fundamental values are not negotiable. There are popular subscriptions, as Senator Garavini mentioned earlier? Of course we do, but - God's goodness - we need everything, except that the drive of public opinion deforms the final objective, ensuring that on the other hand there is a stiffening of positions so that, on the contrary, what should be defined in a very clear way anything but a democracy, that is a regime, instead, wants to give a muscular demonstration behind Patrick Zaki and the organizations that fight in Egypt to guarantee the rights and freedom of people. We need this to be done intelligently by the Farnesina. We need to know - which we are sure of - that we are already moving intelligently, so that we are not faced with a further case of Regens, knowing well that every action corresponds to a proportional and reverse reaction and that, if we venture into statements of a certain type, we either make follow subsequent positions or we will face a new frustration, so that Italian foreign policy and our country will be further weakened, behind, moreover, the life of a person or the freedom of several other people. [[Applause]] Let's never forget that! Today we are not talking about Patrick Zaki, but about the freedom of a person, not a name and a surname. Many Patrick Zaki, in fact, in many other countries, in the world and in Egypt, suffer the same conditions without having had - I use an improper expression, but at this moment I do not get others - the advantage of public notoriety, which of course ensures attention. Many others, however, that we do not know and are in a state of silence, live the same level of deprivation of freedom. We must, therefore, always keep ourselves on important values. We need to take positions and I believe that we are doing so in the most correct way, as the Government has outlined before. We must also be aware that in these debates we cannot confine ourselves to a simple agenda or a resolution adopted in the Senate, but - I repeat - the international institutions in charge must be activated and play their part in a correct and accomplished way in the interests of all humanity and not of a person. Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, the Government takes proper account of our debate, if necessary using the instrument of citizenship that is indicated or going beyond and having made clear that what we have as our objective is the liberation of the person and that human rights are respected in Egypt and in other countries where they are not, with or without citizenship. In fact, we do not want that Italian citizenship that was not able to protect Regens is today a further burden on the shoulders of Patrick Zaki. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u89	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I do not hide from you that I am excited and also moved to be here today. [[Applause]] Almost fifteen very long months have passed since the day I was reached by the message of a professor of the University of Bologna who signalled me the arrest of Patrick and asked me to take action. At that moment, I immediately felt the duty and responsibility to take action and I did so - as I said - with my colleagues from the Human Rights Commission to start following this case, when it was not yet known to the world. It is true that all cases must be followed, even if not known to the world, because every single freedom must be defended, beyond the media clamour that surrounds it. [[Applause]] I tell ourselves first. Mr President, it is important to deal with human and civil rights, because in this period of health, economic and social crisis the concrete needs and dramatic living conditions in which many of the citizens are living inevitably tend to make our perception of the importance of abstract rights such as human and civil rights blurred. Instead, they, together with the protection of their defenders, are fundamental, because they tell us about our freedom to express our ideas, to be as we want and to be as happy as we are. These freedoms affect us all, directly or indirectly. Who, in fact, does not have a son, brother, boyfriend or husband student, researcher or defender of these rights? It is important then to be here today and to have brought to this House the case of Patrick Zaki, who is a student and a researcher, as was Giulio Regeni. This is a paradigmatic case of the danger and drift that we are experiencing internationally on the freedom to be students and researchers, to freely pursue our own research and ideas and to make our own battles freely. It could therefore be our son, our brother or our boyfriend who is today or tomorrow, in the condition of Patrick Zaki; or we could find ourselves in the condition of the parents of Giulio Regenti. It is therefore important to bring these fundamental issues and these issues to the House, which we are called not only to address, but to resolve. Freedom of research is important, but student mobility is also important, because our students and researchers are incubators of ideas and change as only young students and young researchers can be. And those incubators of change and ideas can only benefit all of us and our society, because of those positive changes we will benefit all of us, not only those who produce them. [[Applause]] Therefore it is important to be here today to defend an Egyptian citizen student of a prestigious institution like the University of Bologna. Thanks to the university for all the mobilization and to all the municipalities of Italy who wanted to recognize the honorary citizenship to Patrick, as well as to all the civil society that has set in motion. [[Applause]] Patrick has been in precautionary detention for almost fifteen months, waiting to have a trial for the accused who are challenged to him; he is waiting to have a trial. In a letter of December 2020, Patrick already complained about very poor psychophysical conditions and even recently we have news of his strenuous life in a maximum security prison, where other people like him are imprisoned, with the same accusations, also waiting for a trial. You see, Mr President, the recognition of Italian citizenship to Patrick is a gesture of high symbolic value towards this boy and all the people in his condition. Patrick's situation must be seen in an international and global context of drift towards human rights and civil liberties, but we have wanted to go a little further: first of all, we must fight and ask, as our diplomacy is doing, for international procedural monitoring to be restored, to which Egypt cannot escape. Then we must go further and ask for consideration to be given to the possibility of using all the instruments put in place by the United Nations Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of 10 December 1984. This is the procedural and legal path to a peaceful path and to a solution to the problem through negotiation. It is also very important another commitment that we have asked to include and that has merged into this agenda (and I thank Senator Verducci, the life-senator Liliana Segre and all the political forces who wanted to subscribe to it): Italy is promoting a debate and reflection within international fora such as the G7. Let's remember that Italy will preside over it and among its priority axes there is the following motto: people, planet and prosperity. Human rights and individual freedoms, in this perspective, are therefore not negotiable and Italy must be the promoter of a reflection on respect for human rights in this Assembly, which is born in the sign of these principles and objectives. Let's remember it again: people, planet and prosperity. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would like to remind those who were still to be asked, after my speech, why we are here today, of a phrase extracted from the film "Milk": If you do not mobilize to defend the rights of someone who is deprived of them at that time, then when they touch yours, no one will move for you. And you're just gonna find yourself. So today we are voting in favour of this agenda, which - I remind Senator Balboni - contains the point on the UN Convention, and so if the Senator wanted to change his opinion on the vote and join us we would all be happy. [[Applause]] Let me conclude with a message for Patrick, Mr President, as a citizen of Bologna and a former student of the University of Bologna. Patrick has delivered in a novel, which is a monument of world literature, "Hundred Years of Loneliness" by Márquez, a message written in a somewhat lame Italian: ==References====External links== Thank you. For support all of them. Patrick, we are here today, Parliament is here, your Bologna is here, your university is here, I am here and we will not move a millimeter until your liberation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u90	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Verducci, Segre, Montevecchi, Alfieri, Malpezzi, Bernini, De Petris, Pharaoh, Unterberger, Saponara and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] This concluded the discussion on the motions on the granting of Italian citizenship to Patrick Zaki and on the initiatives for his liberation. The Assembly's work will resume at 3.30 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 1.19 p.m. and resumed at 3.35 p.m.) Colleagues, as the resumption of work coincides with the time of convocation of the Conference of the Leaders, I suspend the sitting for half an hour: no more than half an hour and then we resume the work. [[Senator Perilli's comments.]] Senator, the sitting is suspended. Among other things, I took the liberty of indicating 30 minutes' suspension because, even if the Conference of Leaders continues, I will still return to resume work. You will be given the floor immediately to resume - I am personally committed - before continuing with the agenda. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 3.36 p.m. and resumed at 16.01 p.m.) As agreed, I give the word Senator Perilli who had requested it shortly before the suspension of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u91	Mr President, I am speaking in this House to denounce a very serious matter, a real shame, and I call on my fellow Members to speak after me. As you know, the Commission of the Senate, where - I would like to point out - there are no members of my Group, the Movimento 5 Stars, but members of the League and Forza Italia, has decided to reassigned the life grant to Roberto Formigoni, sentenced to five years and ten months imprisonment for corruption. This is a very serious fact that cancels a path for which my political strength has fought for years and which goes against the resolution adopted in 2015 (the then President of the Senate was Senator Grasso) that prohibited recognizing the vitality to people sentenced for serious crimes. [[Applause]] This situation is still and more... [[Comments.]] I know you won't intervene...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u92	Senator Perilli, I do not want to take the floor, but I just want to say that your speech is taking place on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u93	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, the dignity of this House and of the citizens who elected those who sit in this House is at stake. We must talk about it because President Grasso's resolution expressly prohibited the recognition of the vitality of condemned persons. I want to ask colleagues who are contesting my speech where we want to go or - better - where you want to go, because we will not be accomplices and we will oppose each other in all quarters. This path had been interrupted by us to restore a principle of social justice that is now being deleted. [[Applause]] On this slope we will restore... [[Comments.]] This is particularly serious at a time when the country is prostrated by difficult economic conditions and pandemics. The recognition of a vitality of several thousand euros becomes an insult, a slap on the face of people... [[Comments.]] It is good that this House proclaims that...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u94	Senator Perilli, allow me...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u95	Mr Perilli (M5S). ...they have to take into account that this House is allocating itself today... president. Senator Perilli, excuse me... ...of antihistorical privileges... president. Senator Perilli, let me talk. Mr Perilli (M5S). ...and will always be... president. Senator Perilli, allow me to intervene. I would ask you to conclude because the Presidency wants to speak. Mr Perilli (M5S). I respect the presidency. You have to consider that this topic is very much on the agenda out there and it is wrong...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to those who have asked for it, I would like to point out that I am not opening a debate on this subject and that the speeches are taking place on the order of business. The question must be put exactly in these terms and, responding to Senator Perilli, I also explain the reason. It is clear that yesterday, as we have all learned from the press agencies, there was a decision of the internal jurisdiction of the Senate of the Republic and therefore, as Senator Perilli knows and as we all know, the seats responsible for deepening these matters, whose importance obviously does not escape anyone, are respectively the Commission and the Guarantee Council, for the judicial aspect, and the Presidency Council for the deliberative aspects, so much so that we are discussing resolutions taken by the Presidency Council. Therefore, the merits of these arguments, because of their relevance, must be discussed in these fora. Of course, the Presidency can only take note of this and, given the importance of it, I allow very brief speeches if we want to raise this issue, but not to hold a debate on the subject. This is true today, as it was yesterday and as it will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u99	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, the issue of the lives returned to two condemned persons, as you say, has had its genesis in judicial bodies, but I disagree with the fact that the issue is purely legal. At a time like the present, when a pandemic has brought the entire country to its knees, when there is a people that is manifesting and anger begins to grow because there is an economic crisis that bites very strongly, a signal such as the one that has occurred in recent days, that is, the return with the arrears and also with the interests, of the vitalities to condemned people, that therefore have stolen from the community (one is condemned for corruption and the other also for serious facts that have damaged the community) is something that can explode social anger, even more than what we have seen in recent days. Therefore, the issue is not merely a legal one, but it is a political one and it must be discussed here. I therefore ask that we find a way of talking about it and overcoming this very obvious vulnus to equality and social equity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u100	Senator Crucioli, I can only reiterate what has just been said, that it was obviously not intended to delimit the issue only to a purely legal profile, but only to bring the issue back within the political and administrative competences of the Presidency Council, of which the members of each Group are no accident. In any case, this matter is important, and we can now proceed further with the discussion of the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u101	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00281 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators on the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the proclamation of Rome Capital. I call Senator De Petris to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u102	Mr President, motion No 181 had been tabled at the time in anticipation of a debate in this House which coincided with the anniversary of the birth of Rome Capital, and therefore with the taking of Porta Pia on 20 September 1870. The celebrations will obviously cover the two-year period 2020-2021. With regard to the reasons for a motion like this, I would not only like to thank everyone here who has signed the instrument of direction, which is also the result of the work of an observatory of Members of Parliament for Rome, many Members of Parliament, some of whom have been elected in Rome but not only, who for two years have been seeking in every way, through conferences, reflections and initiatives, to place the issue of the role of Roma Capitale at the centre of the attention of Parliament and the institutions. In the House - I say this, but many colleagues know this perfectly well - some draft laws have been framed, one providing for amendments to the Constitution and the others with proposals for ordinary law, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has begun its discussion. The motion, which was also presented to the House, thanks to the work of the Parliamentary Observatory for Rome and of all its Members, although we know perfectly well that there are only a few months left and that we are in a very particular situation because of the pandemic, has the precise aim of ensuring that at last, officially and in a very solemn way, the celebrations for the 150th anniversary of the proclamation of Rome Capital take place. I believe that any country in the European area, but also in other areas, would have had special attention for its capital and for the celebrations of its anniversary. This has not happened in our country. For the one hundred and fifty years of the Unity of Italy, in 2011 many initiatives were rightly organized and there were solemn ceremonies that saw the participation of both rooms. For Roma Capitale, instead the State and the Government have not done the same, although - I repeat - we are in a particular situation because of the pandemic; the Municipality has organized a series of initiatives; there was only the initiative of a competition of ideas, entitled "All roads lead to Rome," which sees the collaboration of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities and for Tourism, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and Rome Capital, and a commemorative stamp. But nothing else has actually happened. I repeat again that on other occasions there have been official celebrations. The commitments required by the motion require that efforts be made to ensure that this anniversary is properly and solemnly celebrated, and that a number of resources are also put in place with the involvement of the institutions. Once the celebratory part, which is however fundamental, I recall that the last special measure for Rome dates back to Law No. 396 of 1990, which had allocated resources and given special attention to the Capital. Then resources were allocated for the Jubilee of 2000, but the attention on the role and powers of the Capital has unfortunately disappeared over the years. I think it would be enough just to go and see what happens to the other European Capitals - Paris, Berlin, we could quote them one by one - which, although with different institutional structures, all have special powers. Among other things, Rome is the only capital city of two States and, being also the capital of the Vatican, of Christendom and of Catholicism, is characterized by a universal vocation. I think then it's time to pay particular attention, noting that celebrations are also a way to mean that the government and the country have their capital at heart. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u103	I declare the debate open. Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u104	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to thank my colleagues who tabled motion 281, starting with Senator De Petris and Senator Gasparri. To be honest, unfortunately, this is a very embarrassing situation. For twenty years now we have been talking about ways of adapting the capital of Italy to other European capitals and nothing has been done. Thank God there is this cross-section observatory, which is discussing in a concrete way not to give more power to the capital of Italy, but to make it suitable to the challenges, not only today, but also tomorrow. The British have done so with The Greater London Authority, with which they have made the city of London autonomous. It has been done for Berlin, capital for just over twenty years, which has been elevated to the rank of Land, therefore with full legislative powers, all aimed at the development of the capital city and to give it autonomy in terms of infrastructure and investment. The capital of Italy is treated as a municipality of more than 15,000 inhabitants. With all due respect, I wonder if it is possible that the city that hosts all the diplomatic offices of foreign countries, international organizations and institutions have the same administrative treatment, not only political, as any Italian municipality. Absolutely not possible! I was deeply honored to serve the city as a circumscribal adviser, as president of town hall and city councilman and, as administrator of this city, I fought daily with all administrative limitations. More than twelve, fifteen or twenty years of waiting is needed to build a parking lot on public land. It takes 51 clearances to make a parking space of 50 parking spaces! This is the capital of Italy and this is the challenge of the future. I don't want to argue with the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, who are in a phase of deep metamorphosis, because they realize how difficult it is to govern a community, but we have seen photographs of the mayor of the capital of Italy, with pruned trees or with a redone road coat: not the critic, but this gives the dimension of consciousness and awareness of the role he deals with. The confidence of the citizens has not been betrayed, but it is simply inadequate. It is difficult to imagine Mr Khan or Mrs Manuela Carmena Castrillo, mayor of Madrid, who post a selfie with a tree that will be pruned. This therefore gives the dimension of what is the conception of who is the mayor of the capital of Italy and is ridiculous. It is not the fault of the mayor Rays: there are many others his responsibilities. I read this morning that she was saved yesterday, because she does not have a majority on the city council: not even President Conte had it and resigned. It would be useful, as the UDC asked Rome, for the mayor Raggi to take note of this and for at least 20 June to resign, finally giving rise to a commissionership of the capital of Italy. Madam President, I repeat that the photo with the pruned trees gives the dimension of the fact that we do not look to the future. It is often said, lately, by propaganda, that nothing has ever been done in Rome. I say this as a political exponent who was also opponent of those who ruled the capital of Italy for many years: the last public works or the last works that gave a perspective to the city, we inaugurated them twenty years ago. Let's think about the auditorium or the underpass of Castel Sant'Angelo: I certainly did not inaugurate them as a majority administrator, but I acknowledge it. What is the last public work inaugurated in this city? There's nothing! The future of Rome has not been built for 20 years. We have not been building a public work for 20 years, giving greater use and greater perspective. To conclude, I hope that this is not yet another occasion in which we contemplate and exalt the role of Rome, then leaving in Rome the destiny of any Municipality of Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u105	Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u106	Mr President, when I think of Rome, the first word that comes to mind is love, that is, love for this city, cradle of law, center of Christendom, with 6,000 kilometers of roads, where three thousand years of history are stratified, and seat of three types of embassies (at the Capital, the international organizations and the Holy See). Rome, which within its borders boasts an open-air museum. Rome, which extends over a territory that could contain eight of the main Italian cities and nine European capitals: Amsterdam, Athens, Bern, Copenhagen, Dublin, Lisbon, Paris, Vienna and Brussels. The 150th anniversary of his proclamation as the capital of Italy must be an opportunity to engage us all together, without ideological and logical fences of party membership, so that Rome returns to occupy an important space in both national and international context. Rome must regain its fundamental role of economic and above all cultural drive, which history has always recognized. Rome, capital of European culture: it must not only be a slogan, it must be a commitment that we must all make in this House today by voting on the motion. Rome, footsteps: restoring the right dignity it deserves to the capital of Italy means following - as a footstep - that trace that marks the right path, in order to make this city again to be great in the world, but at the same time able to become small and take care of all its citizens, no one excluded. A city that must aspire to a greater autonomy of functions both to govern its enormous historical heritage and to the efficient management of such a complex administrative machine. Rome, in fact, is one of the few capitals that worldwide does not enjoy a particular autonomy. The other director must be an intervention that can follow municipal decentralisation. Given the extent of its territory - as I mentioned earlier in my speech - and the high population density, the city of Rome, given its particular status, cannot be governed exclusively in a top and centralized way. Administrative experience shows that, especially in very large territorial authorities, timely and non-general decentralisation can be the key to improving the quality of services to the citizen in terms of greater efficiency. And we care about that, for the good of the citizens. That is why it will be necessary to give the municipalities specific administrative functions for which devolution to a neighbouring entity is more efficient and to recognise greater financial autonomy of expenditure aimed at providing services to resident citizens. The aim here is to encourage decentralised administrative action in municipalities (which in other institutions would be cities) through the conferral of new functions and the recognition of greater financial autonomy, the latter also as a reward mechanism of virtuous and efficient management. Rome, love, footsteps: the road that will lead us to a rebirth of this city, the Eternal City, can only be embodied in love for the city itself: Rome, love, footprint. Long live Rome! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u107	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u108	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow senators for putting this matter on the motion. I remind you briefly, first of all to myself, that some celebrations have been held for the 150 years of Rome, the capital of Italy: I remember that 500,000 euros have been allocated in the 2019 budget law, followed by a call by the Mibact precisely to select projects to be financed on territorial associations. The Minister for Youth Policy and Sport who preceded me set up a technical coordination table to which representatives of the Mibact, the Ministry of Education and Rome Capital were invited. The table was coordinated by the mission structure for anniversaries of national interest and met three times. The Ministry of Education has promoted a competition for students of every order and degree, "All roads lead to Rome", also in the perspective of remembering but also to include young people, and Rome Capital started the celebrations last February 3, 2020 with an opening event at the Theatre of the opera: there was, at the Musei Capitolini, a lectio magistralis held by the essayist and historian Paolo Mieli, in which a delegation of young students participated. Since I took over the delegations, I have begun the reconstruction of the mission structure, to which, however, I also wanted to give a new form. Therefore, alongside national celebrations, there is also the involvement of young people, precisely in a participatory perspective: memory and involvement of children. It is also my intention to confirm the committee that was appointed last December, considering the possibility of broadening its membership. Having said that, with regard to this motion, I welcome the premises and commitments, with a proposal for rewording commitments 4) and (5). The purpose of the rewording is, in point 4, to include in the text, after the words "public and private universities" the following "young people and youth associations" and to replace point 5 by the following: In the case of insufficient availability of the State budget, the possibility, on the basis of the necessary technical checks, to allocate in an exceptional way part of the collections of the ticket offices of the main archaeological and monumental sites and museums of the capital to the celebration of the 150th anniversary and the realization of the projects identified is assessed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u109	The signatories of the motion state that they accept the proposal for reformulation just put forward by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u112	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, as early as March 1861 Cavour, in a speech to the House of the Kingdom of Italy, said: The history of Rome, from the time of the Caesars to today, is the history of a city whose importance extends infinitely beyond its territory, of a city, that is, destined to be the capital of a great State. Starting from this sentence we think of the cultural damage to humanity that this pandemic has been creating for a year to our capital, depriving even tourists from all over the world of the possibility to enjoy the beauty and history of Rome. Once I was struck by the phrase of a young man - and I thank Minister Dadone for quoting the participation of young people and for proposing the reformulation of that point of the motion - of another continent that was in Rome for an intercultural exchange; he said that the Italian boys, the Roman boys, have less difficulty studying books, because in Rome you live continuously in an open history book. Well, this motion, at the first signature of my colleague Mr De Petris, calls for a strong celebration of the 150th anniversary of the proclamation of Rome Capital. Of course, in this year we could not do it as Rome and Italy would have deserved and as it was done for other events, including, for example, the one mentioned in the motion, 2018, on the occasion of the anniversary of the victory in the First World War, with a final event in which the President of the Republic participated. In this regard, I once again like to recall the commitment in the committee for the anniversaries of national interest of Senator Marini, which unfortunately we have recently lost because of the Covid-19 and which was authoritative president of this Senate. The 150th anniversary of the proclamation of Rome Capital goes beyond its celebrations, of course, and leads us to start again from the epidemic, to reason on how our beautiful capital is a city of solidarity and inclusion and how we must help it to play this role. Remembering the 150 years means carrying out a great cultural and educational operation, as the motion calls, with the involvement of study centres, public and private universities, cultural associations, third sector, union, media, adding now, on the impulse of Minister Dadone, as I mentioned before, young people and youth associations. But it also requires an extraordinary effort to reduce pollution and implement a programme of public works and redevelopment of the urban fabric. We have the resources of recovery and we must also work on this for our capital. This debate naturally intertwines - as Mrs De Petris said very well - inevitably the question of strengthening the role, functions and financing of our capital. At the other side of Parliament are being held hearings for the process of legislative proposals to intervene in our Constitution to broaden the role of Roma Capitale. We think this is the time. There is an observatory in which all political forces are present to relaunch the role and functions of Rome Capital. So this is the moment. Let us make our capital the symbol of the ransom of all humanity for the infiniteness of the boundless Rome represents in the post-pandemic. For these reasons, the Gruppo Italia Viva-P.S.I. It will vote strongly in favour of the motion on Roma Capitale which is under discussion today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u115	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, Ministers, today we are debating the motion on Roma Capitale, which dates back to August 2020 and which is the twin of an approved motion submitted to the House. Both are one of the cross-cutting fruits and intentions, as has been mentioned, of the work of the Parliamentary Observatory for Rome. The object is the anniversary of the 150th anniversary of the proclamation of Rome as capital. The date of reference is that of February 3, 1871, date of publication in the Official Journal of the Kingdom of Italy of Law No 33, precisely of February 3, 1871, which transferred the capital from Florence to Rome. On February 3rd, the pandemic and the narrow notes were joined, the celebrations were reduced and the anniversary went almost unnoticed, but we still have time to recover. The point is not only that, as Mrs De Petris also mentioned. It is not only a matter of celebrations, however due, but also of substance and I will try to explain it. I could use the full ten minutes I have to list the regulatory framework. I will not, but I will give references that contextualize the vexed question of Rome Capital. How not to remember at the beginning the law for Rome Capital No. 396 of 1990 of Craxi and Andreotti, with relative appropriations, definanced unfortunately in 2012. I would like to point out that Roma Capitale enters the Constitution with Constitutional Law No. 3 of 2001, which amends paragraph 3 of Article 114 of our Constitution by defining: ==References====External links==* Official website Other legislative interventions are followed in 2009 and 2010 in implementation of fiscal federalism, the legislative decree of 2011 for functions and valorizations and the already mentioned reduction of the legislative decree of 2012 and then, unfortunately, the mannaia of the financial law 2015. I could continue - but I will not - because we have been talking about this for almost thirty years. Let's go back, though, to the present day. The date of February 3, 2021, which marks the 150th anniversary of the proclamation of Rome Capital, has not been properly celebrated so far. This is the purpose and purpose of the motion that Brothers of Italy have signed to the House and the Senate and that will therefore - in advance - vote firmly. Let us, however, stress certain things. It was not only the pandemic that contributed to this institutional distraction towards Rome and this anniversary. In fact, the calendar of events had not been prepared from the date of September 20, 2020, that is the anniversary of the Breccia of Porta Pia, until the mentioned February 3, while the 50th anniversary of the union of Rome with Italy in the last century was widely celebrated with institutional initiatives. The same applies to the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of the proclamation of Rome Capital, celebrated as the completion of the unity of Italy and as the closure of the Risorgimento epic. Instead, the 150 years have been neglected. I like to remember a nice commemorative stamp of Italian Post Office and some initiatives that day; but little stuff. But what is the vulnus, beyond last February 3rd? The vulnus is deeper, dear colleagues, and it is the attribution to Rome Capital of special powers, to which they must or should pay special funds. This, moreover, is the historic position of Brothers of Italy, which we are pleased also saw the convergence of other political forces, as evidenced by the approval of the agenda in the Chamber signed by Mr Meloni and Mr Rampelli last February, but also by the Capitoline assembly of 24 February last dedicated to greater funds and powers for Rome Capital, with a cross-cutting consensus. I refer to the request for special powers for the city of Rome, as is the case with other European capitals: Paris, Berlin, but also London pre and post Brexit. What is the point, ladies and gentlemen? The full implementation of the reform on the powers, resources and functions of Rome Capital. It is clear to everyone that the important mechanisms introduced in the Constitution, nor the ordinary law on special powers and competences, have not been enough, because they have remained without concrete consequences and because the ordinary law has remained without the implementing decrees. There is an interesting passage of prediction in the 2021 budget law, which we hope will be implemented, while - and this is not just us, but I would say that it has been noted in multipartisan terms - there is insufficient budget in the recovery plan. Sorry to have to remember - I say this in this case without controversy - that last March 31st the proposal of Brothers of Italy was rejected to allocate to the capital in the PNRR one billion per year for the next six years, also in view of the Jubilee that I remember will be in 2025. We also proposed to include in the PNRR powers for Roma Capitale; unfortunately this proposal was rejected. I come to the conclusions. Beyond this motion, which we shall vote on, Rome is not only the capital of the Italian Republic, but is also the capital of the Catholic Church and of Christendom and is also the seat of international bodies that strengthen the international vocation of Rome. In Rome there is an immense artistic and monumental heritage; the historic centre of Rome is a UNESCO site. Relaunching Roma Capitale, colleagues, means relaunching Italy as a whole, it means investing in the future of the nation, because the future of the nation passes through the streets of Rome. Without Rome there would have been no united and free Italy that we have known and that we like to remember. That is why we must recover all (it is not a matter of part) the pride of Romanity and also of the capital of a nation. For Brothers of Italy the special powers of Rome Capital are not a problem of the city of Rome, but a matter of rank and national level. Relaunching Rome means focusing on the future of Italy, because, dear colleagues, Rome is history, it is civilization, it must be pride. Rome Capital, however, must not only be evoked, must receive instruments and resources that enable it to face the challenges that await us and also to excel, as it can or could, among the European capitals. I would also like to add that Rome in the world collective imagination is the center of history. Goethe wrote: "Rome is the capital of the world" and of Rome the capital of the world, of Rome the capital of Italy, of Rome the center of history we must not forget that we are here. The motion under discussion is a step, a stimulus, a solicitation, not only to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the proclamation of Rome Capital, but not to forget that, if we do not relaunch Rome, we penalise Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u118	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I naturally thank Mrs De Petris and the Members who signed the motion, in particular Senator Monica Cirinna, who signed the motion for the Democratic Party with me. I would therefore like to thank those who wanted to put this issue in this House, where it is not easy and it has never been easy to talk about Rome. To Loredana De Petris I wish to extend a special thanks, as well as to the health that has witnessed me to this day, because the health that has witnessed me to this day and the motion tabled by my colleague De Petris have allowed me to hear in this House representatives of the League rightly hugging for Rome, for Rome-Amor. We have heard one of the members of the League and we will also hear one of them during an explanation of vote. This is good because not many years ago, when we were discussing the measures that Mrs Rauti mentioned, the parliamentary classrooms often had to serve an opposition of the League, which at the time was secessionist. Now the League is sovereignist and pro-European, so let's take the good and positive moment. Why is the motion under discussion central? Not so much and not only, let me say, for the issue of the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the proclamation of Rome Capital. As has been pointed out, the 150-year anniversary with the pandemic affair has passed a bit in the background, but it puts the issue of the status and financing of the capital of Italy in the Senate. Starting from the definancing of Roma Capitale, done in recent years with respect to Law No. 396 of 1990, we are faced with an inescapable theme, of which unfortunately this country, which does not love its capital - perhaps we too also put our own in order not to be loved - must realize, so today a debate on the topic is positive. We want this nation, our homeland, Italy to realize that, or we decide to give a particular role and financing to the city of Rome, beyond those who govern it - anyone can govern it - or, if it does not have a status and, above all, allow me, a particular financing, for the financing with which it is dealt today, the capital of Italy substantially does not differ much from the other Italian municipalities capitals of the Region. I don't have to go too far back. It is enough to have seen the demonstrations of these days in Rome. In a normal regime like that in which you will return once you leave - hopefully as soon as possible - from the pandemic, the capital of Italy has roles, representations, a weight not only because it is capital of the country, but because it is a unicum as the world capital of Christendom. Its function is therefore threefold: the capital of Lazio, the capital of Italy, the world capital of Christendom. I therefore believe that this is a function to which Parliament and the Government must carry out. I also thank the Minister, who gave indications in favour, also with a rewording of the agenda and the motion accepted, thus showing a sensitivity of the Government to the issues raised by the motion. It is good, however, for Parliament to take the lead in this matter. You enter an electoral period and all the things you say and do in an electoral period, as it is only a few months after the renewal of the City Council of the Capitol, maybe it can be exploited, but the majority and the whole Parliament - I have also heard Senator Rauti and Brothers Italy say that you can't get away from an affair like that of Rome - must engage and place the theme of special and extraordinary funding, with an assumption of responsibility, since our capital is triple capital and is a global unicum. I think the motion has the merit of putting this issue, starting from the 150th anniversary of Rome, the capital of Italy (between September 1870 and February 1871), but it also reminds this Assembly and the Government of the status of Rome and above all the state of its funding. We have been discussing its institutional status for many years, and some measures are being discussed in the Chamber in the Committee on Institutional Affairs. The discussion is delicate, because it involves the citizens of Rome, Lazio and the province of Rome and we are talking about a region of six million inhabitants, the second Region per GDP in Italy. It is therefore a matter of course delicate, but to be dealt with. The theme that both the Government and Parliament have forgotten in recent years is that of economic support starting from recovery and normal resources linked to extraordinary functions that by its nature the capital of Italy, the capital of the Region and the world capital of Catholicism and Christendom must face. I therefore declare, also on behalf of the Democratic Party, the vote in favour of this motion, because it is right to place in this House, at the heart of our debate, such an important and vital issue for our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u121	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). I would like to thank my colleagues who have spoken both in an explanation of vote and in the debate, because this motion on the celebrations for the 150th anniversary of Rome, the capital of Italy, wanted precisely to put the question of the status and role of Rome Capital at the centre of the attention of the Senate and the Government. I believe that Rome does not need any presentation in the world for its history, because wherever you go not only in Europe, but also beyond its borders, you will find traces of this presence, of this history. Rome has become the capital of our country and certainly this was an extraordinarily important fact, which really marked the birth of the Italian State. It is paradoxical that a city so famous and important to the world for years receives instead from its own country, from the Italian State of which it is capital, very little attention. Rome by its nature, as my colleague Astorre recalled, is the capital of Italy, the capital of the Region, the capital of Christendom and the seat of many international organizations. I remember FAO, but there are many more. This obviously involves very heavy burdens. In addition to prestige, there are heavy burdens. We also have double embassies, with all this involved. The issue of funding has always been a crucial issue. It is not by chance that in the motion I remember Law No. 396 of 1990, which established Rome Capital, whose inspiration was the late Antonio Cederna; well, that was the last national law that somehow took care of Rome. Over time it has been virtually definanced and effectively repealed. However, this is not a matter which - I repeat - concerns only the Roman citizens, the citizens of the metropolitan area, Lazio or the parliamentarians of Rome, but it is a national issue. Just as it was a national issue Berlin, capital of Germany, Paris for France and London for the United Kingdom, this is also a national issue and boasting for the whole country. I quote these capitals to say that each of them, evidently with different institutional structures, has a special legal status: from Berlin which is a city-state, for example, with everything it entails, to Paris with its very strong and recognized autonomy. Let me remind you that Rome is the largest city in Europe by area, as well as the largest agricultural municipality in Europe: this means that it has a very large territorial extension for historical reasons and also means that action must be taken. We will also examine the drafts of legislation that are currently being framed in the Constitutional Affairs Committee in the House. There is the fundamental need - at last, I say - to decide from the constitutional point of view the legal status of Rome, which is a special status and can only be so, as for all other capitals. Then we will choose the forms; the debate has been open for many years, but I think it is necessary, all together, to take a decision on this. At the same time there is an ordinary bill, because today, as things stand, we need to make a qualitative leap; we cannot govern such a complex city with the same powers as a municipality with much less inhabitants and a decidedly minor role. The municipalities of Rome, for example, should be transformed into municipalities in order to have the possibility of a real government of the territory. This is not about who governs the city at that time, because in this House we have practically ruled a little 'all Rome and in one way or another there have been alternations, but the issues before us have remained practically the same. I think it's time to make this leap in quality and finally I hope that the House will proceed quickly and that the Senate can finally examine the draft laws in this matter, because the issue of Rome Capital, its role and its funding (so it is on the recovery fund, but also, shortly, on the budget law) covers the whole country. This is an absolutely priority issue which concerns Italy. We are, on the eve of the renewal of the City Council and the elections, but, I repeat, this is not a matter of partisanism. It is a matter that deeply affects the State, the Government and the whole country. A capital, with greater possibilities to have funding, resources, an institutional structure and special powers that allow to govern at best, is important for all our country. So, with the hope that this motion will quickly lead us to define both the role and the funding for Rome, I announce the vote in favour of the Senators of the Mixed Group and the LEU component. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u124	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, this motion is being discussed a little late, actually. Where did it come from? The initiative is unique, because the motion is signed cross-cuttingly and does not always happen in Parliament. All the Groups, Senator De Petris, myself, Senator Cirinna, Senator Dessì, Senator Binetti, Senator Giuseppe Pisani and many others have signed this motion on the 150th anniversary of Rome Capital, which they make this year. Years ago, in Rome, a coordination was born, an observatory of the elected parliamentarians in Rome and, therefore, together we have drawn up a motion to recall, for the truth already months, the institutions, the governments, the government of the time, to appropriate celebrations for the 150 years of Rome Capital. It's not just rhetoric. I could quote: "Italy is returned to itself and to Rome. Here, where we recognize the homeland of our thoughts, everything speaks to us of greatness. It's written behind President Rossomando. None of us look at them, but there are these gravestones. We regard them as normal, but it is not that we enter the Chamber in the morning and read the tombstone. It's written there. Therefore, the motion responds to the need written in the tombstone: to recall history, identity and path. I do not want to give a history lesson here: I would not be up to it, nor do my colleagues need it. However, I believe that being aware of the role of the nation and the role of capital is an important fact. Rome, then, was a controversial place, of controversy, even called mafia. Then, however, it was not: there was corruption, as there was in so many parts of Italy and the world. The Court of Cassation, however, removed that mark, which had been superficially placed on the capital, with a gigantic image damage to the country of which someone should then be called to answer. For this, however, just read the books of Sallusti and Palamara, I don't need to talk about it here. So the motion is to call the government back. I tell the government representatives they still have time to do something. We're still in April. I remember that, on the occasion of the centenary (I was a child), there were celebrations, there was talk of it in schools and it was an important moment. I therefore believe that we must reflect on the role of the nation, on the role of capital and, of course, also on powers. Something has emerged in the debate. I say to my colleague Rauti, who I have known and esteemed for a long time and who is in his first legislature, that, in the 1980s, the Craxi Government made a special law for Rome; in 2008 and 2009 the Berlusconi Government made rules and laws for Rome. The Constitution has been changed, introducing the term Roma Capitale. It is not enough, however, to change the name. As colleagues have said, the capital must also be provided with adequate resources. I would remind Senator Rauti, who made the right demands, to tell his Group's colleagues that it is enough to sign the bill by Mr Barelli di Forza Italia, who wants to introduce greater powers for Rome into the Constitution, so that it can be equated with a Region. As in other states of the world, of the West, the capital city has powers that are not those of the other municipalities: for the burdens, for the functions that have been remembered, for the presence of embassies and international representations. In some ways, not secondary, Rome is the capital of Christendom. It is a particular place and, in fact, the gravestones and history remind us of it. Then, we forget about it in the path that led to this goal. I believe, therefore, that this motion commits the Government to do something more, from here to the end of the year, to celebrate the 150th anniversary of Rome Capital. I do not think that we need great economic means, starting with communication and - why not - the same parliamentary classrooms. The Senate Chamber has been opened for important moments of institutional reflection and meetings on culture and on topics of various nature. I think we can safely, at no cost, have a more solemn moment of celebration with the President of the Republic and the highest institutions. Many initiatives are promoted, which I appreciate, dedicated to various aspects and I believe that the Senate could host these events, in line with the tombstones that remind us of home history. A debate is taking place in the Chamber of Deputies on the role of Roma Capitale. Forza Italia has put forward these proposals, while other groups have not made proposals of constitutional rank, but they have come well; it is enough to warn colleagues in the House and the rapporteur, Mrs Calabria, of Forza Italia (while Mr Silvestri, of the 5 Star Movement, is rapporteur on ordinary measures). We have raised a constitutional issue. The role of Rome can be discussed. I remember the Parliamentary Observatory which is both cross-cutting and plural and which I chaired, by term of office, when it was set up. It is currently chaired by Mr Magi, who is far from my group, and Senator De Petris is an illustrious exponent of it, I do not say the seniority, but the political experience gained both in the territory and in these classrooms. We feel it is our duty to raise a historical, cultural, identity, constitutional and regulatory issue. Rome can also be unpathetic because it is always at the center of controversy. Moreover, Rome hosts its faults and Italy, because in Rome many negative events have seen protagonists those who find themselves there, as capital, to carry out their functions and maybe have transformed it into a theatre of things not valuable. Rome is also history, culture and identity (I must not add references here). Even in the discussions on the recovery fund we said that a substantial voice should be introduced for Rome Capital for specific powers, resources, transport, reception and infrastructure, as it is the door of Italy, the country and the nation. This is not the forum for this discussion, but our Group has also explained this to the current head of the Draghi Government. In a brief speech on the confidence I said that Draghi, in addition to being European and Europeanist by name, is also Roman and, therefore, in his government action he may find space for what is a service and a need of the whole national community and not a claim of a bell tower nature. I hope that this motion will be adopted - our Group supports it - for historical, cultural and moral reasons and for the possibility of celebrating, from now to the end of the year, the anniversary of the 150th anniversary of the Capital. I also appeal to the presidency of the Senate, which can itself take an initiative at no particular cost. In fact, we have the room, which is accessible according to the rules of time and therefore there is no need to spend money. As far as communication is concerned, television even broadcasts our normal sessions, not all of historical importance. Therefore, this initiative can be taken and I appeal to the Presidency. After that, we need to discuss powers and roles, which is currently being done in the House of Deputies, where the relevant legislative process is taking place. However, I believe that this matter should also be included in the discussions on the various economic measures and decrees. I started from the tombstone, but we don't just want to put tombstones: we want to make laws and make the nation aware of its role and history. When they say that Europe is asking for or wanting something, let us remember what would be without Italy, without Rome and without our history and our vestiges. [[Applause]] A little pride, we are Europe! Let's think about the city of Rome. If you leave here you will find Caravaggio in San Luigi dei Francesi, as well as in Santa Maria del Popolo, and you will also find the Pantheon. Just make 500 meters around here on foot and you will see more history than there is in other places of Europe (I say nothing more to avoid misunderstandings). Proud of our history, we will therefore vote in favour of this motion, hoping that it will push for laws useful to capital and thus to the nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u125	Senator Gasparri, I would say that we are discussing Rome as the European capital.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u128	FUSCO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, Senators, the Lega Group appreciates the motion tabled by its colleagues, which has put the importance of Rome as the capital of the country to the attention of this Assembly, with the aim of spreading and enhancing its role as capital, promoting the future development of the city, through a series of commemorative initiatives, on the occasion of the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the proclamation to the capital of Italy. We believe that the recourse of the 150th anniversary from the proclamation of Rome Capital must, however, represent an opportunity to address more fully a topic of strategic importance, not only for the city of Rome, but for the whole country, with the hope that this discussion can represent a first but important part of the path that sees Parliament recognize in Rome a greater autonomy in the exercise of powers and functions, endowing the capital of Italy with the necessary resources, useful for better management of its archaeological, historical and architectural heritage. Just today that Rome is preparing to face the 150th anniversary from its proclamation as capital of the country, I believe that the recognition of a status that in terms of autonomy can really guarantee the objective of being able to preserve the value of eternal city, of open city, symbol of victory and liberation, which is recognized internationally. If we look at Rome with a look at the other European capitals, as rightly pointed out by the motion we are debating, we cannot fail to see how the major European and Western capitals enjoy specific funding for the performance of the functions related to their role in the state order, which is also indispensable to contribute to the preservation and enhancement of a historical and cultural heritage of enormous value that rarely belongs only to the local administrations, which therefore need interventions of their respective national states. We cannot talk about Rome without considering that its territory alone is larger than that of the other eight largest Italian cities combined and is equivalent to the sum of nine of the major European capitals: we are talking about Amsterdam, Bern, Athens, Brussels, Copenhagen, Dublin, Lisbon, Paris and Vienna. Although these figures highlight the greatness of Rome, one cannot help but point out that this does not correspond to an adequate regulatory recognition in terms of autonomy which is the responsibility of the main European capitals which, even with different specifications, enjoy forms of autonomy recognized by their respective systems. For example, in Germany and Austria, Berlin and Vienna are Länder; in Spain, Madrid is an autonomous community; in Belgium, Brussels has become the third region. Looking overseas, Washington is not only the capital of the US, but also a state. Rome is the only city in the world that hosts three circuits of embassies: as the capital of the Republic, as the seat of the Vatican City State and as the seat of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). At the same time, however, Rome is one of the few world capitals that still does not enjoy a particular autonomy. We share the concern expressed in this motion for a resolution about the dramatic economic emergency caused for the city of Rome by the outbreak of Covid-19, in particular with the paralysis of the tourism sector, which has always been the backbone of the city's economy, and for this reason it is necessary to have extraordinary support from the State towards the city. We believe that in addition to this extraordinary support, on the occasion of the anniversary of the 150th anniversary of its proclamation as capital, Rome also deserves a new consideration within the Italian order. I remember in fact that in addition to being our capital, as recognized by Article 114 of the Constitution, Rome was defined by Law No 42 of 2009 as a territorial entity Rome Capital. As a result, it has been recognised as having specific administrative functions on the subject of public and private construction, economic development, cultural heritage and civil protection. The first regulatory vulnus we believe should be surpassed as soon as possible is that the prerogatives recognized in Rome Capital insist only on the municipal territory and not on the area of the Metropolitan City, as established in law n. 56 of 2014. A solution to this incongruity would be to force the metropolitan area with the municipal one, constituting a central Rome to which the Lazio Region should inevitably give some competences. Through municipal decentralisation, it would also be a matter of recognizing to the individual municipalities, today in the metropolitan area, greater powers and greater autonomy, including financial autonomy, on their territories in the interests of the citizens and the services to be provided to them. Only in this way can we really recognize in Rome the role of capital of the country, while at the same time enhancing the individual municipalities that to date fall into the metropolitan area and that often struggle to enjoy the resources they would need because most of the times held centrally. These are the objectives that aim to be able to achieve our proposal for a law that contains provisions on the ordering of the Metropolitan City of Rome Capital that, recognizing to it its own autonomy, would undoubtedly also benefit the other capitals of the province of Lazio. We are talking about Viterbo, Rieti, Frosinone and Latina, which most of the time see regional resources taken from their territories, which are mostly phagocited by Rome, which should be allocated specific resources of the State. For this reason we will vote in favour of this motion with the hope that it will represent the first piece of a legislative path that finally sees Parliament discuss Rome and what is necessary so that what has been the capital of our country for 150 years, the seat of the main academies of art and culture, the center of Christendom of the world and the cradle of law, can see fully recognized its status as Italian capital. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u131	LUPE (M5S). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Senator De Petris for presenting the motion on the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the union of Rome with the Italian State and therefore its proclamation as the capital of Italy. He was reminded that actually because of Covid it wasn't easy... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u132	Senator Wolf, excuse me for a moment. Colleagues, as often happens there is a part of the hemicycle that is very noisy and does not allow you to listen to the speech of the colleague. I do not know if this is because male voices prevail, I would not like to make it a gender issue, but I would ask you to lower your voice or, in any case, to leave the Chamber. Please, Senator Wolf.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u133	Thank you, President. You're always kind. As has already been said, in this year of Covid it was actually almost impossible to make the celebrations that we all wanted and expected. However, I would like to remind you that actually Rome is not just celebrations and events because otherwise it would be quite obvious. Rome is already a living celebration. We must remember Rome not only for the Jubilee or for sterile polemics, which are often felt. We have to work together, concretely. [[Comments.]] I thank Senator De Vecchis for doing the oil, even from afar. [[Recalls of the President]] Thank you, Mr President, I can continue. I would like to recall the words of President Mattarella, who was present, together with all the institutions and also the vicar of Rome, the Pope's spokesman, at the first celebration that took place in February 2020. He said that "Rome can give so much to the development of the country" and that "the national community must ensure the necessary support, so that the functions of the capital are carried out to the best and thus create benefits for the whole system." Investing in Rome means focusing on the whole of Italy. It has already been said that the major European capitals already have special powers and have functions and a role, in the state system, which represent a permanent and contemporary laboratory. The fateful moment has actually come to work together to give Rome these special powers: we can work on a constitutional law or on simple ordinary laws, to give more effectiveness and to make it faster. However, it is regrettable that these arguments often emerge more during the pre-election period. However, I have noticed that today the tones have been very cooperative and I hope that, after the words, they will follow the actions. Obviously Rome needs ad hoc resources and are also indispensable to contribute to the preservation and enhancement of a historical and cultural heritage of enormous value. It is a national heritage, even before the single municipal administration. I come to the point: we started from the agreement that we all have to work for to recognize these special powers. So we must recognise this legal status, only that, even in this branch of Parliament, the only bill for special powers, with only three articles, to which we can work, is at first signed by Members of the Movimento 5 Stars. Therefore, since we are in a bicameral system, I would ask you to start working immediately in this Upper House of Parliament. [[Applause]] and to do it concretely, in addition to words, on this bill. I think Roma Capitale is important for many reasons. The management of Rome is not easy, because here there is the headquarters of Italian institutions, embassies and we must meet the many needs related to public security, local public transport, alternative transport and a lot to care for greenery. These are expenditures that must also be made in the immediate future: we think of public security and not just these days, for the demonstrations we are experiencing, but throughout the year. So it is obvious that you cannot wait for a waterfall passage, from the State, to the Region, to Rome Capital, because whoever is called to administer it, Rome Capital needs immediateness. These are answers that are not only given to Roman citizens, but to Italian citizens and citizens of the world, because Rome is the city of the world. [[Applause]] Colleagues, you have spoken of the cities of Italy, but Rome is the city of the world, it is the center of culture, it is the city that envy us all and that copy us also, but badly, because it is unique. The 5 Star Movement is certainly in favour and will vote yes to the motion on our examination. However, we ask the courtesy to follow the beautiful words spoken about our capital, because Rome is not only the city of Italy, but it is the city of Italians and of all citizens in the world. I would therefore like to thank Senator De Petris for the motion for our consideration, on which our vote will be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u134	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 281 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u135	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 29 April. Without prejudice to the topics already foreseen in the current timetable, next week the Assembly will meet from Tuesday 20 April, from 16.30 to 20, for the third reading of the bill of European delegation 2019-2020, where concluded by the Commission, as well as for the ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs. On Wednesday 21 there will be a discussion of the decree-law on the reorganization of the Ministries, where the Commission has concluded; otherwise we will continue with the discussion of ratifications of international agreements. Thursday 22 April, the joint discussion of the 2021 Economic and Finance Document and the Report on the deviation from the budgetary policy objective will take place. For the latter, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required. The Government's reply and the final explanations of vote will take place with direct television transmission. On Tuesday 27 April, at 3 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the transmission to the European Commission of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Three hours and thirty minutes were allocated for the debate, excluding explanations of vote. For the reply of the President of the Council of Ministers and explanations of vote, television broadcasting is planned. The calendar of the week from 27 to 29 April previews moreover, besides the eventual continuation of the decree-law on the reorder of the Ministries, the discussion of the decree-law in matter of transports and crocieristico traffic in the lagoon of Venice. Thursday 29, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u136	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 29 April: [[Thursday 15 April h. 15 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (15 o'clock)]] ♪ ♪ [[Tuesday, April 20 h. 16,30-20 - Draft law n. 1721-B - European delegation law 2019-2020 (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) (where concluded by the Commission) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs - Drawing of law n. 2172 - Decree-Law n. 22, Reorder Ministries (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 30 April) (where concluded by the Commission) - Joint debate of Doc. LVII, n. 4 - Document of Economy and Finance 2021 and of the Report to the Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of the Law 24 December 2012, n. 243 (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) * (Thursday 22) Wednesday 21 " h. 9.30 Thursday 22 " h. 9.30]] Amendments to draft law No 2172 (Decree-Law No 22, Reorder Ministeri) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 19 April. * Motions for resolutions Doc. LVII, No. 4 (Document of Economy and Finance 2021) and the Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No. 243 of 24 December 2012 should be submitted before the conclusion of the discussion. Amendments to the resolution accepted by the Government on the 2021 Economy and Finance Document should be submitted within half an hour of the opinion being delivered. [[Tuesday 27 April h. 15 - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the transmission to the European Commission of the national plan of resumption and resilience - Eventually followed decree-law n. 22, Reorder Ministries (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (scade on 30 April) - Drawing of law n. 2168 - Decree-law n. 45, Transport and crocieristico traffic in the lagoon of Venice (scade on 31 May) - Questions to immediate answer, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 29, hours 15) Wednesday 28 " h. 9,30 Thursday 29 " h. 9,30]] The amendments to the bill n. 2168 (Decree-law n. 45, Transport and crocieristico traffic in the lagoon of Venice) will have to be introduced within the hours 14 of Friday 16 April. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1721-B (European Delegation Law 2019-2020) [[Speakers 10' Government 10' Groups 2 hours, including explanations of vote, of which: M5S 22' L-SP-PSd'Az 19' FIBP-UDC 17' Mixed 16' PD 14' FdI 11' IV-PSI 11' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 9' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2172 (Decree-Law No 22, Reorder Ministries) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 35' Mixed 33' PD 29' FdI 23' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of Doc. LVII, No 4 (Economic and Finance Document 2021) and the Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FIBP-UDC 43' Mixed 41' PD 36' FdI 28' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the transmission to the European Commission of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (3 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 26' Mixed 30' PD 22' FdI 22' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14']] Distribution of the times for the discussion of the bill n. 2168 (Decree-law n. 45, Transport and crocieristico traffic in the lagoon of Venice) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 35' Mixed 33' PD 29' FdI 23' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u137	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00238 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators, on the lifting of the embargo on Cuba. I note that the agendas of the G1 were presented by Senator Nugnes and other senators, replacing motion 238 (text 2) which was withdrawn, and G2, by Senator Ciriani and other senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call Senator Nugnes to explain the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u138	Mr President, the agenda for the G1 is intended to commit the Italian Government to continue to work in all fora and to do so with ever greater attention and incisiveness: in the UN, in the seats of the European Union and in all appropriate international fora, until the objective of the definitive removal of the embargo against the Republic of Cuba, which has lasted for almost sixty years, is achieved. Consistently, this, with all the humanitarian appeals that have been raised in recent times of atrocious global pandemic, which have started from the Pontiff, from the Secretary-General of the United Nations in March 2020, from the leader of the G20 countries, so that there may be a loosening of economic sanctions, exhorting to suspend the sanctions that undermine the ability of countries to respond to the pandemic and to continue to work, especially in coordination with the countries of the European Union and in the multilateral fora, so that the sanctioning mechanism, still applied against Cuba, at least does not include obstacles to the supply of basic necessities, including medicines and medical instruments. This is also consistent with the almost unanimous vote condemning the blockade, which, 28 times in a row, saw the UN General Assembly say so. The dramatic period caused by the rapid spread of the Covid-19 and the consequent emergency situation in which the world has crashed has put everyone in trouble; but, more than all, those countries that undergo embarrassments, such as Cuba, which has suffered, precisely, for sixty years, but not only Cuba. The economic, commercial and financial blocs, driven by economic, commercial and financial interests, but above all political (let's say so), inevitably always fall on the weakest, on the populations. The pandemic has been a magnifying glass on a situation, that of Cuba, which is now unsustainable, highlighting the socio-economic damage of the blockade, aggravated by the tightening up carried out by the Trump Administration precisely in the worst period, precisely in the period of greatest health and social need, also blocking the supply of medicines and medical material. It should not be necessary to remind Italy that, while this happened in the indifference of many, Cuba was among the countries that assisted our country in March 2020, sending, at the request of the Lombardy and Piedmont Regions, that at that time were really under an unspeakable pressure, two medical brigades composed of immunologists and nurses specialized in interventions to contrast to pandemics; doctors and logists who operated in Crema and Turin, two of the most relevant outbreaks of Northern Italy. Our assessment must, in fact, ignore this, even if it cannot be ignored. So our commitment to this must only be for the benefit of the population, whatever our political assessment is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u139	I call Senator Ciriani to explain the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u140	Mr President, our Group wanted to make a contribution, I hope, not ideological and much more practical, to today's debate on the regime of sanctions, particularly those aimed at Cuba, but, more generally, on the problem of sanctions, their use and their effectiveness. Surely none of us can forget that Cuba has been the protagonist for many decades of serious and prolonged restrictions on the rights of people, economic freedoms and also fundamental rights and that this unfortunately continues even after the constitutional reform of 2019. Cuba still has a regime based on a single party. However, it must be remembered, in order to make it clear, that perhaps a few people know that neither Italy nor the European Union currently have sanctions against Cuba. The sanctions against Cuba are from the United States. It is clear that the United States applies unilateral sanctions with extraterritorial scope and that this also has a reflection on the economic activities of Italian entrepreneurs. Therefore, it is right to remember that Italy and the European Union do not currently have sanctions and restrictive trade measures in place against the island of Cuba. (17.31) (Following Cyrians). The agenda also points out that on 23 March the United Nations Human Rights Council approved by Italy's vote against a measure criticising the negative impact of certain coercive measures. More generally, we want to stress the need to move from indiscriminate sanctions which are likely to be ineffective and which affect the lives of normal people to more targeted sanctions. From this point of view, we recall the resolution adopted by the United Nations with the contrary vote of Italy, which has provoked many controversy. Briefly in this UN resolution reference was made to the condemnation of the instrument of unilateral sanctions. The document strongly urges all states to refrain from imposing unilateral coercive measures because of the dramatic consequences that measures such as the embargo create on the population because they often affect the weakest. Going to the device, let's definitely remember that Italy is one of the main trading partners of the island of Cuba and we cannot forget - it is our duty of gratitude - the presence of many Cuban doctors who last year came to the rescue of Italy during the sad and dramatic months of the beginning of the pandemic. I hope that our proposal can be heard, considered and paid attention by the Government, which I believe is committed to doing something else at the moment. [[Comments.]] We would like to draw the attention of the Government to the disposition of our agenda, which commits Italy to changing the register of sanctions, from unilateral generalised sanctions to more careful sanctions that avoid the direct effects on the population, which are measurable in the practical effects that can be obtained in order to be truly selective, that affect the political leaders of the governments and not the generality of the population. On this subject, which I had to summarize for the sake of time, the Brothers of Italy Group - as my colleague Mr Urso will say later - calls for a real confrontation with the Government so that Italy can work to protect the national and economic interests of our companies against unilateral extraterritorial sanctions of the United States. We hope that the Government will accept our agenda, which - I repeat - is not ideological, but practical and concrete. It is aimed at protecting national interests, without affecting the population, but the political leaders of the restrictions of freedom in countries such as Cuba. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u141	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u142	Mr President, the documents we are debating, I shall refer in particular to the motion by the opposition members of the Mixed Group. Reading it, we judged it an ideological text and above all instrumental. Let us not forget that the text was presented on 26 May 2020, in a phase of extreme emergency and in response to a signal from the Cuban people. That said, in the face of the vote held on 24 March 2021 at the UN Human Rights Council, this motion is now passed, because the Italian Government in theory would already have expressed itself on the outcome and on the subject of sanctions. I would like to go a little bit further on the subject of these sanctions. What are we talking about? If we take a step back in the last century, everything happened around the first days of January 1959, when the so-called beardedos finally entered Havana (January 8, 1959). A year and a half later the nationalization of all the industries that resided on Cuban soil took place; following that nationalization the embargo started on the part of the United States. So we are basically talking about a relationship between the United States and the island of Cuba, which does not concern us. Why am I saying it's none of our business? It does not concern us because, if we go to the website of the Ministry of Economics and Finance, we notice that under the voice on the financial embarrassments from Italy the island of Cuba is not there. So Italy must not be ashamed, as someone said, but must be proud of the fact that, in response to that act done by Cuban doctors, we have not applied direct sanctions. But there is more: if we go to the European Commission's website to see what financial restrictions the European Union has applied to the various peoples of the world who are on a black list, we notice once again that Cuba is not there. This means, even more, that it is an all-Atlantic relationship between the United States and Cuba, about which, in my opinion, we should not be ashamed of anything. Let's take a look at the sanctions. The latter are an instrument of foreign policy, they are a diplomatic act enshrined in international law; we are not talking about criminal acts or such things. If we wanted to follow the path outlined by this motion, how could we help the Cuban people, who are under the yoke of the denial of human rights and poverty? First of all we could find out - according to an article published today in the press review - that Friday will finally end the Castro era, because Fidel Castro's brother will resign permanently, after sixty years. So much for those who supported the rule of two mandates: here we are talking about sixty years. The embargo has not at all affected this aspect, so much so that even in 2016 on the island of Cuba the use of mobile phones was allowed. It's not that the phones have arrived: it was strictly forbidden to use them. So the embargo has paradoxical effects on these aspects, which very often depend on the island's own choices. But let's get to the point. How can we help them? For example, by calling for them to join the Cuban democracy act, which calls for free elections. Just to leave it to the record, I printed the ballot box of the previous elections, which took place just in conjunction with ours: a 2018 ballot, in which there is only one party (still in 2018). Perhaps we should do this: help them to progress even democratically. I simply close by saying what we could do, rather than calling for compliance with the commitments contained in the agenda. We could, for example, go through all international agreements (we can do so, as a Parliament), some of which are still in 1903; I am referring to bilateral relations of friendship, economic exchange, economic, cultural and democratic growth. This we can do; for the rest, I believe it is reports that do not directly concern our country. We should simply stick to what has been our foreign policy until now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u143	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u144	Mr President, I would like to remind my colleague, with whom we have fought together, that we were for the self-determination of the peoples and that we are not questioning the political system of a country here, but the fact that medicines and basic necessities do not reach the people, because there is a political embargo. On March 29 hundreds of Cubans demonstrated in Havana with a slew of vintage cars and motorcycles to ask the United States, of course, and not Italy, which has nothing to be ashamed of because it has always done so, to lift the embargo against the island in force for over sixty years. The protest also took place in 50 other cities around the world, including the United States. The demonstrations were to ask the Biden Administration to lift the embargo. "We call for the end of the blockade," said Minister Rodriguez. "The opportunistic tightening of the blockade during the Trump government, in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, makes it even more genocidal," he added. On 23 March, the United Nations Human Rights Council adopted a resolution on the negative impact of unilateral coercive measures and the enjoyment of human rights and stressed that these measures prevent the full implementation of the economic and social development of the nations, which also has an impact on the full implementation of human rights. The resolution deepens the dramatic consequences that measures such as the embargo create on the population and also stresses that these always affect the weakest fringes of society. It also seems important to us to recall the Agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and Cuba, signed in December 2016, which intended to give a new course to Euro-Cuban relations, for better bilateral cooperation, in contrast to the extraterritoriality of the blockade, which strikes, among other things, the possibility of economic relations between Cuba and Europe. The agreement reopens the partnership relationship between Europe and Cuba and derogates from the 1996 common position, and I say this to my colleague in particular. This agreement - as was said by the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Mogherini - means that for Cuba and for all the Caribbean the European Union is a friend and partner. It cannot be forgotten, however, that the Trump Administration has tightened the embargo against Cuba and brought back the clock of time, as well as repealing a series of rules that allowed the Americans to travel to Cuba for tourism and have limited the remittances of migrants, thus hitting the two main sources of income of the island. Trump's moves marked the total reversal of the Obama Administration's efforts to rebuild ties with the island. The current U.S. President Biden promised in the election campaign that he would change politics towards the island, stating that Trump's policies had inflicted damage on the Cuban people and had done nothing to promote democracy and human rights. At the moment he says that the revision of the approach to Havana is underway, but the White House has not yet indicated when it will act and what it will do and whether it really intends to continue with the historic relaxation between Cuba and the United States that had been initiated by Obama. I therefore hope that the Government will accept this invitation of ours in line with the appeals that have come, especially this year, also from the Pontiff.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u145	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u146	Mr President, as regards the G1 agenda, which replaced motion 238 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators, I am in favour. I would then like to propose a series of rewordings of the G2 agenda, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, which is a little more complex and which I received just now. With regard to the premise, the first paragraph, which is the only one we ask to reformulate, the Government's proposal is to change as follows: • Whereas: in Cuba there are still serious limitations of civil and political rights and widespread violations of fundamental freedoms confirmed by the continuing existence of an indefinite number of political prisoners and consciences. With regard to the device, in the first paragraph we propose to add the word "continue" before the words "to work" because it is an activity that we already carry out. Also with regard to the second paragraph of the device, we propose to add the word "continue" to the words "to make sure that the real effects of such measures are measured." We therefore propose to interrupt the period with a semicolon after the words "permanent" in time, eliminating the last sentence. In the third paragraph of the proposal, we propose to reword as follows: "to continue to work to ensure that the system is chosen - by removing the words "where necessary" - of targeted sanctions affecting the decision-makers." The fourth paragraph of the provision would be reworded as follows: "to work in every context to ensure that the Cuban regime fully recognises its people's individual civil and political rights, including by implementing the UN International Conventions on Civil and Political Rights and on the Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 1996, signed by Havana in 2008 but not ratified by the Cuban Parliament until now and frees the political and conscientious prisoners currently held." PRESIDENT. - The debate is This more than a change is just adding a topic. Mr SERENI, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Mr President, I think that the presenters should consider this. We do not propose any changes to the second last paragraph. Instead, we would ask for the last paragraph, not because it does not touch an interesting and important issue, but because in the economy of a reflection that starts from a single country perhaps deserves another kind of discussion in another location. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Ciriani is not present, but I see Senator Urso, whom I ask to reflect on the proposed reformulations while the Deputy Minister continues his speech. Mr SERENI, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Mr President, today's debate gives me the opportunity to briefly highlight the basic lines of Italian and European policy towards Cuba, as well as the position traditionally expressed by Italy in the UN in relation to the embargo imposed on the island by the United States in the early 1960s. Italo-Cuban relations, even if in the context of a conception of democracy and human rights that are obviously not coincident, are marked by a traditional friendship and are periodically reviewed in the framework of a mechanism of political dialogue that meets regularly alternately in Rome and Havana, in the course of which we do not fail to represent to the counterpart our expectations in terms of openings on the side of fundamental freedoms. Cuba is also a priority country of our development cooperation, a status that allows the planning and implementation of important projects that affect crucial sectors of Cuban society and the relevance of which is further increased today given the hard impact that the pandemic from Covid-19 has produced on the island. In December 2016, the European Union signed with Havana an agreement on political dialogue and cooperation which redefined the overall framework of Euro-Cuban relations. In line with this renewed momentum, Italy is helping to accompany the complex process of updating the island's economic system, a challenge that the Cuban Government has undertaken for some years and that has therefore found an institutional framework within the Constitution of 2019. One of the sectoral dialogues resulting from the aforementioned Agreement on Political Dialogue and Cooperation is devoted entirely to issues relating to unilateral coercive measures. The last session, held on 25 March, thus allowed us to discuss in detail the consequences of the US embargo and the recent application of Titles III and IV of the Helms-Burton Act, the extraterritorial effects of which pose a serious threat to the interests of European economic operators and on which Brussels' attention remains particularly high. Another sectoral dialogue that we conduct with Cuba in the context of the European Union on a regular basis, certainly not less important, is the dialogue on human rights, the last session of which was held on 26 February, in which the island's notes and continuing critical issues in this area were also addressed. The solid but also frank relationship with Cuba means that Italy is well aware of the complex relations that exist between Havana and Washington, on which the embargo that the United States maintains against the island prevails. During the mandate of the Trump Administration, the embargo has undergone a progressive tightening of the sanctioning mechanism and has been applied without any exception, as demonstrated by the inclusion of Cuba last January among the countries sponsoring terrorism, causing, among other things, a significant contraction of Cuba's economic-commercial partnerships on an international scale. The new US Administration has adopted an attitude of caution towards the island and has so far shown little propensity to undertake actions in discontinuity with the past. Last February it was decided to extend by one year the national emergency measure to implement the embargo, pending completion of the examination of the dense network of restrictions in force. Any change of course, including the possibility of the resumption of dialogue with Havana, which does not seem to be a priority of the new administration, will be based on the pillar of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Italy has always expressed itself, in agreement with the other Member States of the European Union, by promoting with them a line contrary to the economic blockade and its extraterritorial effects towards third countries deemed contrary to international law and by voting traditionally in favour of the resolution that the Cuban Government presents annually to the General Assembly of the United Nations. It is a coherent and consolidated line, as confirmed by the last vote of November 2019, for which the Cuban Government is grateful and which we trust can contribute to improving the overall climate of relations between Havana and Washington, with positive repercussions for both. Our opposition to the embargo, moreover, is due not only to the repercussions on the population or to the aforementioned impact on other countries, but also to the fact that it has not actually helped to promote processes of openness and dialogue on fundamental rights and freedoms. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to reiterate that Italy has never voted in favour of sanctions against Cuba, as stated by Minister Di Maio during the hearing held on 31 March on the policy lines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. The annual draft resolution requesting the end of the US embargo will be presented by Cuba to the United Nations General Assembly for the twenty-ninth consecutive occasion on 23 June. At that meeting, Italy, in close coordination with the European partners, will undertake to welcome the draft resolution in order to confirm the traditional support given to the Cuban petition.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u147	I would therefore like to hear the Brothers of Italy Group on the proposed amendment of the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u148	Mr President, I would like to thank the Government because the proposals for amendments that it has asked us to make improve the understanding of our text. These are additional and also significant elements, which go in the same direction. For this reason, we welcome them in full.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u149	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u152	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I am speaking very briefly. The illustration of Deputy Minister Sereni was extremely clear and exhaustive, so there is little to add. One thing to stress in particular: the text, which has reached a very wide parliamentary convergence, emphasizes one aspect in particular, taking up what were the statements of the Pontiff and the Secretary-General of the United Nations António Guterres, pointing out a fundamental issue. Even in the presence of sanctions, never and never may these in any way concern the provision of basic necessities and medical instruments. It is clear that the position of the Italian Government is the one just outlined. Let us hope that on the twenty-ninth occasion that Cuba presents to the next United Nations Assembly there will be, this time, the will and the ability to approve it. Just as it is important to continue in the work, which has always been supported by the Italian Government, to overcome the embargo definitively. That is why we will vote in favour of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u155	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, Vice-Minister Sereni, ladies and gentlemen, Cuba is changing. Always involved in social affairs, Cuba is a country where you still have so many problems. It continues to be a controversial reality, which is the subject of many criticisms, but which must be looked at in a differentiated way, recognizing the development in progress. Pope Francis also visited there a few years ago. His handshake at Fidel Castro well interprets the image of the change in progress. Despite the many limitations, you begin to see the first signs of openness. The country - for example - has made important progress in the field of health, in the field of research, school, women's emancipation. That is why we believe it is appropriate to give this country an opportunity. In the midst of the pandemic, in recent months Cuba has distinguished itself through a beautiful humanitarian gesture towards us. On the wall of the covid hospital in Turin there are still many messages left by former patients: You have given me a second life. You left your families and came here for months in the midst of the pandemic hell; You have been my guardian angels, messages that convey, in a simple but direct way, the many gracias of those who have healed from the Covid-19 after weeks of suffering; messages that convey deep gratitude to those Cuban doctors who have supported our hospital structures. It wasn't taken for granted to decide to help us. Cuba, in turn, experienced a very serious situation, because the structural problems, already caused by the embargo under which Cuba has been living for years, were further aggravated by the Covid-19. On the same days that Cuba was preparing to help us, Cuba was forced, in turn, to close its borders for weeks in an attempt to control the infection. This meant, in practice, to screw up the main source of income: tourism; a severe blow to the local economy, therefore, in a period already strongly tested by the policies put in place by the then Trump Presidency which, with the prohibition imposed on cruise ships, had already caused a decrease of 15% of the revenues of the tourist industry, then further dropped dramatically. In this general context, certainly not easy, Cuba, since the beginning of the pandemic, has chosen the same to mobilize an army of white shirts or doctors, not bombs, in support of several friendly countries, including Italy, kneeled by the coronavirus. Through the sending of medical personnel, Cuba has demonstrated its great generosity. There has been a shortage of basic necessities on the island for decades, including medicines (in the pharmacies of Havana, for example, there are no antibiotics) and this is the result of the economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United States in Cuba for over sixty years, when it was a question of combating the conflicts resulting from the Castrist revolution. This means that, even today, Cuba is suffering the consequences of an embargo determined by historical, political and social conditions totally different from today's, so much so that President Obama, during his term of office, had tried to remove the embargo but failed, because of the opposition put in place by the Republicans who held the majority in the Senate. President Trump, on the other hand, has further tightened the blockade with the addition of new sanctions and has effectively stopped the arrival of a number of products, including oil, basic necessities and sanitary materials. The current President Biden, on the other hand, announced during the election campaign his intention to change US policies towards Cuba, allowing for a possible loosening of sanctions. We hope that these intentions expressed during the election campaign will come true. We in Italy Viva are also convinced that the time is ripe for us to overcome this embargo which we believe to be exhausted in its raison d'être. We hope that the Government will accept the agenda promoted by my colleague Mr Nugnes and also that of my colleague Mr Ciriani, where the Group will accept the proposals for reformulations. Our vote on the agenda will be in favour, in order to commit the government to making the United States aware of putting an end to the embargo on Cuba. The calls for the suspension of sanctions on the island are now multiple and come from authoritative voices, starting with the Secretary-General of the United Nations António Guterres, who urged the leaders of the G20 to review their position on the embargo in Cuba. A similar appeal came from the United Nations General Assembly, which, 28 times in a row, voted by a large majority to condemn the embargo. There is also a democratic colleague, Senator Ron Wyden, President of the Finance Commission of the United States Senate, who has deposited a bill on this issue and has expressed his support for the restoration of normal trade relations between Cuba and the United States. With our vote we can give strength to his project and - we hope - also to the intentions of President Biden, pointing out the importance of the resumption of relations also in order to alleviate the difficult living conditions of the Cuban population. The sanctions continue to cause serious inconvenience to the people of the island. From an economic point of view, the effects of the embargo are even stronger than before. Cuba is going through a very black period due to the absence of tourists unable to reach the island even following the anti-Covid restrictions and this is putting further crisis the already fragile economy. The overcoming of the embargo is made even more urgent by the current pandemic and the geopolitical logics that have led to the application of sanctions so many years ago are now overcome by events, all the more so as a result of the problematic situation in which the island is located. Wanting to continue to keep them is anti-historical and risks being counterproductive. In recent months Cuba has distinguished itself for an operation of great solidarity with us. Today we have the opportunity to express our gratitude, in turn, through a vote that can help Cuba to emerge from a paralysis that has already lasted too long. ==References====External links==* Official website Today we say so too in this House. Just as this island with its doctors has helped preserve a piece of our future, in the same way with our vote we can help to preserve some of the future of the island. That is why we welcome the favourable opinion expressed by the Government regarding the agenda that we are going to approve and announce the favorable vote of Italy Viva [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u158	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, we have taken the opportunity of the motion tabled by fellow Members of Parliament of different political cultures, at the first signature of Senator Nugnes, to present our agenda which addresses the issue of Cuba, but which goes further to try to outline what the wise use of sanctions can be today to strike regimes or even authoritarian systems without causing direct and continuous harm to the people. One thing is the regimes and another is the populations of those countries, also because very often the populations already suffer those regimes. We thank the Government for proposing additional amendments which are also lexically improving our act of direction, expressing our support for its approval. I think this is important right now. This morning a colleague of Liberi and Uguali noted how important it was to approve a unitary document on the industrial policy of the country; in that case we were the proposers of the motion and we also realized, with the other majority forces, the final agenda that still bears our first signature. We have given an address and we are happy that in that direction of industrial policy that concerns the strategic sector of the steel industry Parliament for the first time has been together to point out to the Government, and therefore to the country, to the social, trade union and productive forces, the road we together want to take to reaffirm the value of the steel industry and to reassure not only the companies in the supply chain, but above all the companies that use steel in Italy, which are hundreds of thousands. After industrial policy - as my colleague said this morning - there is foreign policy; these are two assets in which, for their strategic value, a country must outline, possibly majority and opposition together, its posture. Of course, this is not just about the contingent, but about the strategy with which it is based in international politics. That is why, in our act of direction, we started from the very condition of Cuba, which, unfortunately, we all know to be a regime. Even today, the Constitution, ratified not forty years ago but in 2019, provides that Cuba is a single party system, in which the Communist Party is the only legal political party. We know what Cuba is. Personally, when he was delegated to our country's foreign trade during the Berlusconi Government, he promoted a political and entrepreneurial delegation to Cuba, Havana; although he was in a right-wing government, I knew well what my country's interest was and how it was appropriate to relate to a communist regime, obviously under international rules. That mission is well remembered by Cubans, because it was also an opportunity to sign an agreement through SACE. Therefore, I personally know the situation, as it is the duty of everyone to know before judging. Cuba is therefore a regime in which dissidents are still being punished and in which only the Communist Party is in the Constitution. Cuba is, however, also a generous people, who possess an extraordinary cultural heritage and which is recognized in the common Catholic religion. The role of the Church in Cuba is still fundamental today because that regime, unlike other communist regimes, did not conculcate the Church. It is a substantial difference that must be perceived, while contrasting. Cuba has such a generous spirit that it sent - and we recognise this - a delegation of itss at the most acute moment of the pandemic. In Cuba the communist system has invested only in schooling and in the health system, as you know better than I do you who have also attended it for ideological reasons. Leaving everything else aside, we must recognize this aspect. We're talking about Cuban vaccines coming soon. We recognize that the act of generosity, obviously endorsed by the regime, has also struck us Italians, who must not forget that, when the Soviet Union fell and Cuba was based only on Soviet finance, because it was the bastion of it, it was the openness to Italian tourism that allowed the country to survive. We know all this and our country knows it. That is why we have taken this opportunity to reaffirm Italian and European policy towards Cuba, without meddling in American policy because sensitivity is different. We don't say what America has to do, but we don't want America to tell us what to do. The policy of sanctions and embarrassments is American politics, but not Italian and European politics, even if it has - as everyone who studies this issue knows - an extraterritorial value, on which we have measured ourselves several times. The extraterritorial value of American sanctions and embargoes is not just about Cuba and is a problem for Europe and its businesses. In addressing this issue, we then set out what should be the policy of our country within the European Union and the Atlantic and Western Alliance. We know that we are Italians and therefore Europeans and, as such, we are Westerners. We affirm every time and in every behavior our sphere of civilization and our framework of alliances. But we are not blind and we are no one's subjects. We are Italian, European and Western; this is the sphere of our values, these are our allies; the others, if anything, are trading partners. Allies remain only those who fully share our values. It must be clear to everyone that Cuba cannot be an ally, because it does not share our values. Having said that, we have so much respect for the people that in the motion we tabled we say that the policy of sanctions cannot be the policy of the embargo. We ask - and the Government has done well to clarify it - targeted sanctions, and not only in that case, but possibly in any case; targeted sanctions to which also in international legislation we are wisely orienting ourselves that they personally strike the perpetrators of crimes and libertarian actions, that they strike through the policy of sanctions and embarrass the authors and not their victims. If we hit the victims of the perpetrators of the crimes, if we hit the victims of the regimes, we strengthen them and, when the sanctions last too long, it means that they are ineffective. The real policy of sanctions is that which affects the perpetrators of the crimes and the perpetrators or the cliques of the regime in a selective and targeted manner. When we really do that, we hurt. In any case, however, such a policy cannot be lasting in time because otherwise it is not effective. It is effective as it strikes, you can say re-educates or otherwise gets effects, otherwise its consequences on the population are counterproductive and strengthen the regime. There is such awareness in the Italian right because it analyzes phenomena, has no prejudices and has only one lighthouse, the national interest, which in this case must be combined with the freedom and dignity of every people, value and right enshrined in our Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u161	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I would like to begin by voting in favour of the Group's first-signed agenda by Senator Nugnes and the first-signed agenda by Senator Ciriani, as reworded in accordance with the Government representative's proposal. The debate on these texts is an opportunity to talk about sanctions, and not just about Cuba. This issue was put to the attention of the press thanks to a misunderstanding, a misunderstanding, at a time when the Movement of non-aligned countries, at the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, raised the issue of sanctions as a general instrument, applied in a way that is not proportional to the international issues and cases to be addressed. It was therefore a general question, addressed to everyone and to all kinds of sanctions, which was exploited and brought back to Italy with reference to the sanctions in Cuba, which I will then talk about. However, it is clear that serious reasoning about the system of sanctions must be done and I think that is correct. This can be done on the basis of work in the relevant Commissions, starting with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Emigration, accompanying this reflection to the work being done at European level, in which a document has already been drawn up, according to which sanctions must be proportionate, selective and targeted, affecting areas which do not affect the essential rights of a people, such as humanitarian aid and emergency supplies, from foodstuffs to medicines and medical supplies: we have seen what this can mean during a pandemic. More generally, we had the opportunity to discuss this at a meeting where the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation presented the lines of his mandate on the general issue of sanctions, with a reflection on which they work and which do not work. We have seen that targeted and individual sanctions certainly have a deterrent effect, they hit the perpetrators of crimes or behaviour contrary to international law, while the more general sanctions sometimes risk affecting the population, having an impact on respect for the most basic human rights. I think it is useful that a general reflection on the usefulness of sanctions, but above all on the effectiveness of certain types of sanctions, should also be carried out by the Italian Parliament, in the most appropriate ways and involving the competent bodies. Therefore, this may be an opportunity to reflect together on how to do so. To reach Cuba, it is clear that, for years, at European and Italian level, we have had very strong bilateral relations, with cooperation agreements in the economic, social, cultural, political and diplomatic fields. From this point of view, within this framework of collaboration, an agreement with two regions was concluded last March. I remember being personally interested, precisely to facilitate the agreement with the Lombardy Region, since some doctors already had relations with the Lombardy private health institutions, to make this collaboration, which derived from private health, in favor of the Lombardy Region. We were in a moment of great difficulty, so much so that a contingent of Cuban doctors and health workers arrived in the city of Crema and was of great help, precisely in one of the most affected areas of Lombardy, at that time, performing a very important service in favor of the population and in support of the Lombard health structures, as recently emphasized by the mayor of Crema Stefania Bonaldi and the local institutions. So, from this point of view, we are grateful to the Cuban people, to the doctors and health workers who have come. Not only for this reason, but for many others, we are in the wake of the choices that the Italian Government has always made, last in November 2019, as announced by Marina Sereni as Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. And I understand that we will also be doing so on 23 June by giving a mandate to the Italian Government, which will be present there, to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to overcome the embargo and, above all, the most deleterious effects that sometimes some sanctions, decided bilaterally, discharge with extraterritorial effects on other countries. This in reference to the debate on how sanctions sometimes run the risk not only of affecting the population to which they turn - therefore, people who are not responsible for the acts of their own Government - but also of penalising the legitimate interests of companies and companies from other countries. From this point of view I welcome the contribution that has been made today by my colleagues because it allows us to talk about Cuba, about the important contribution they have made to the country in a time of difficulty, about the needs to overcome the embargo and also about a more general reflection to be done in perspective with different instruments and involving the competent bodies on the system of sanctions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u164	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I think that this motion is very important and not only - as my colleague Mr Alfieri has rightly pointed out - as an act of thanks and gratitude to the Cuban people, to the doctors and health workers who helped us at the most difficult time for us, that of the first impact. I remind everyone that we were the country on which the virus first impacted, with all the dramatic situations that we remember in Northern Italy. Those operators arrived and worked well in the city of Crema and in Turin. Among other things, not only the mayor of Crema but also today the Piedmontese institutions, and above all Turin, thanked the Government and the Cuban people for the help that was readily given; I remember that thanksgiving is a due act. In the period of the pandemic to continue with measures such as the embargo - in my opinion absolutely antihistorical - is a serious damage. Like all embarrassments, it is a damage to Cuban citizens, which has produced great suffering in all these years. During this pandemic period, you understand that this is even more serious. It is no coincidence that the motion mentions the appeal that was launched by the Pope himself, which concerned all the embarrassments against countries because, at such a difficult time, the embargo comes to exercise also on what are the sanitary instruments and all that is needed. Therefore, it is right, at this time more than others, to ensure that such measures are finally taken, especially with regard to those who have been suffering them for many years. I would also like to remind you that this is not new. In fact, one of the commitments is to continue in what has always been, by Italy, a policy of collaboration and cooperation with a friendly country. Moreover, as you know and as Vice-Minister Sereni recalled now, Italy has always worked, even during the UN General Assembly, voting in favour of the lifting of the embargo against Cuba. I would also like to point out that great progress had been made during the Obama Administration and part of the embargo had been removed. We then met up with the Trump Administration one step back. That removal of part of the embargo had produced a very strong push for the process of reforms, both economic and political, within Cuba. The period of the Trump Presidency has brought back that process which had also been initiated, as well as happened on other issues (I think of the Paris Agreement). Today we trust that, with the new Biden Administration and in the context of our relations with the United States, we can resume that path towards a different relationship and collaboration, especially to get to the suspension - and I say to the removal - of the embargo. At the moment it is particularly urgent to do so, because most of Cuba's economy and therefore GDP is based on tourism, as everyone knows. We are now practically zero in the year; this also concerns Italy, where tourism also has a considerable weight, but not as much as in a country like Cuba. You understand that the embargo, even from an economic point of view, produces a truly dramatic situation for the people. I therefore believe that the G1 agenda is important and I hope that the Government will work towards continuing this commitment, including in Europe. Among other things, the relationship between Cuba and the European Union has been on a very important road to cooperation for many years, and I believe that the work of Italy within the European Union and other bodies, such as the UN General Assembly, is very important in order to arrive at a process of lifting the embargo. First of all, cooperation relations must be strengthened. The Pontiff was right to make an appeal to all the rulers of the world, following that of the UN Secretary-General, to ensure that all sanctions are suspended, which damage, at a difficult time like this, especially the peoples and citizens. For all these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Senators of the Mixed-Leu Group and other Senators of the Mixed Group on the agenda G1. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u167	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a reference to the new Biden Administration several times in this House. Let me immediately send a telegram to those who have done so, not to freeze the thought and a feeling - which I imagine hotels in the heart of each of us - aimed at trying to look at the best of the Cuban people. However, I would like to point out that Biden himself stated a few days ago that the problem of sanctions in Cuba is not a priority for the US Government. It is all too obvious that Forza Italia considers every gesture of solidarity, as that which occurred in the last year in Crema and Turin, by the doctors and nurses who come from Cuba, as an act of friendship and certainly of benevolence towards the Italian people. However, we cannot accept the dramatic situation that Cuba is currently experiencing, given that we have the opportunity to talk about it. We immediately point out that Forza Italia is close to the Cuban people. I was in Cuba some time ago; it's a country I fell in love with. I say immediately that I went with my wife, so that they do not create misunderstandings, since it is a reality in which the economy once - unfortunately - I must say - was based on cigars, sugar cane and something else that I do not quote here out of fairness. It is a wonderful reality, with very mild and incredibly good people, but there is a communist and military government that has oppressed that people for sixty-two years now and we must also consider these aspects. I remember the first meeting I had. It was around 1985 and I was invited for the presentation of a book. The author was a Cuban poet and writer, Armando Valladares. His book was called "Against All Hope." He was imprisoned at the age of twenty-three, because he was opposed to the Castrist regime, and spent twenty-two in the gulags of the Castrist regime. He has been tortured; he has tried to escape several times. It is a sort of "Papillon" but no one has ever talked about it and it would be a book recommended to many who today listen and know perfectly that that regime has committed inexhaustible nefariousness. We want to remember - we have to do this in fairness - the 8,000 executed since Fidel Castro reached power in January 1959. Nor can we forget the thousand disappeared who tried to cross the sea to arrive in America, Florida, from which they separated more or less 200 kilometers. People were killed by motorboats, sometimes on rafts of luck, or very often eaten by sharks. We need to remember the situation for what it is. The revolution promised freedom. Do you know what Cuba's freedom is? According to Article 53 of the Constitution, freedom of speech and of the press are guaranteed in accordance with the aims of socialist society. This means that characters and poets like Armando Valladares could and can still today - in Cuba there are still political prisoners - be imprisoned for these things. In the last pages of that book there was an indication of all the gulags, of all the concentration camps in Cuba. I would remind the House that when Batista fell in 1959, there were 14 prisons in Cuba. Today there are more than 200 penitentiaries in Cuba. Is there something you want to say? Today we have a percentage of prisoners for every 100,000 people over 500. It's Latin America's record. With Senator Cangini's friend before we talked about the fact that there is a short circuit in the system of international law, because if, on the one hand, the only instrument we have is sanctions, on the other, we also know their poor, useless and, sometimes - even worse - degrading effectiveness, which can also lead to reactions. These are the reasons why I believe we need to give careful thought to what is happening. These doctors who have come are also a little strange, because we have never known, although some questions have been asked, what their emolument or salary has been; it seems that it was from 4,000 to 6,000 euros, so it is not that we are talking, in this situation, about a philanthropic or solidarity activity. The Italian Government has paid and it even seems that Cuban doctors, besides of course having been kidnapped on arrival, because in many cases they have also run away (not in Italy, but in other parts of the world), has been given about 10% of the emotion. Now, I understand that life in Cuba costs little: it takes 16 months to buy a TV and a pack of detergent takes 20 percent of the salary. We promised ourselves well-being and we found ourselves in a situation of crisis, even food, of that people. Then we rightly say that children and the weak cannot pay for it. What tools do we have to make this bloody regime pay, which has proved in history to be such, despite the blindness of so many? I want to remember the prison in La Cabaña, which was run by Che Guevara, and the tortures that took place there. Do we want to forget them? Or the fields of work in which we still work for twelve hours, incessantly. As the Government has said with great elegance, human rights between us and them are not coincident; of course, they are not coincident, we are on diametrically opposed roads. There is a need, in this situation, to look at reality, as I have said many times in this House. What can we do? I would remind you that the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the agenda presented by Brothers of Italy and that we will abstain on the agenda presented by Senator Nugnes and other senators, because we have the hope that we can really find a positive solution to the tragedy that Cuba is experiencing right now. It is a truly disastrous situation and we are faced with a motion which also has an ideological taste. We have to say it all: this is a motion that has an ideological taste. I wonder if we should eliminate the sanctions in Cuba, which helped us by sending these doctors. However, the president of the Venezuelan Medical Order has indicated that in Venezuela about 70 percent were not even doctors. Then they rushed away from Cream; this is also an aspect that we had asked in the past to verify. I believe that we must have the language of truth and, in the face of this situation, we cannot forget everything that has happened in that reality, which is dramatic. And I do not understand why, although there was the possibility of having over 200 specialized Venezuelan doctors available, these were not taken into consideration, but we went to look elsewhere. If we remove the sanctions in Cuba with this system, for relationem, we should also do so with those who helped us, also with Russia and - why not? - we should consider Bolsonaro and especially Brazil a nation not to be flogged, as we are doing telling the number of deaths. If we look at each other at home, we may also have something to be ashamed of for what happened before the arrival of this Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u168	Senator Aimi, may I remind you - it is not a correction, but an information - that however a group of Venezuelan doctors are working meritoriously in the Marche Region; to them goes our thanks. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u171	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in preparing to make an explanation of vote, I have focused on the reasons behind the motion we are considering. I believe that one of the main reasons that have united all the statements that have been made so far is that of solidarity with a people, as is the Cuban people, who are suffering from a regime. We are absolutely close to the Cuban people, and I think this has come out of the debate a little unanimously, because it must not be a people who pay for the choices of what, as Mr Aimi has also said, is actually a regime. However, let us proceed by points. In the motion we refer to the intervention of Cuban doctors also in the Lombardy Region, in my Lombardy, and for this reason, of which both the Region and the local administrations have given notice, we must surely say thanks to those who helped us in a moment when a storm broke out, a devastating tragedy that no one could expect. I myself - I can quote this episode - in September 2019, when I was part of the Italian Parliamentary Delegation to the United Nations General Assembly, I had the opportunity to confront the representative of the Cuban Government, who carried out precisely the medical excellence that we then experienced on our skin. Thanks must therefore certainly be reiterated, because it is right to recognise what is right. Today we are talking about sanctions, which are not against the Cuban people, which certainly suffers the consequences. The sanctions - and this probably has not been stressed enough - are issued against a regime, which, I would like to remind you, but has already been said by others, basically provides for a single party, which in its own Constitution still recalls the socialist element as fundamental. We must bring back to the centre the real subject of the debate, namely respect for human rights, which is what we are going to discuss today. [[Applause]] and that we are asking Cuba, but also the other states that are subject to certain sanctions. At a time when international institutions and diplomacy are going to deal with this, then yes, we are absolutely in agreement with taking a path that can also lead to loosening or eliminating certain sanctions. We cannot forget something else. We must remember that the main interlocutor - has been mentioned many times - who insists on the maneuvering of the embargo are the United States, with which we have a historic and well-founded relationship of friendship and collaboration, net of the successive administrations. If it is true, in fact, that the motion and also the other acts we have examined refer to a choice made by former President Trump to tighten up the position of the United States with regard to Cuba, it is true that the new President Biden has immediately made clear that the intention of the United States is to promote democracy and human rights. This is the real subject of the debate that must concern us. Therefore, if we want to take a path to ensure that sanctions are targeted and careful and that they strike, as Senator Urso said earlier, the real perpetrators of behaviors that are in fact anti-juridical and contrary to the morals that must keep us all united - that is, as I said before, respect for human rights, which are fundamental - I believe that only by pursuing such a path will we be able to give justice to the Cuban people. On the other hand, in the motion - I remember this because someone probably escapes - there is no mention, for example, of the Cuban internal movements, which are not clearly aligned and of course then have to undergo certain repressions. I believe that we really need to do diplomatic work, and we need to talk even more about this with the United States and all the other international institutions, starting with the European Union, which has to be an interlocutor, and from this point of view we can certainly only share the wishes we have heard and which are contained in particular in the agenda proposals. Precisely because we must be very careful in moving, we must remember that we have excellent bilateral relations with Cuba, there are international treaties that bind us and we must be careful to take a path that, however, must not risk breaking certain balances, also because - I always remember it for the benefit of me, but also of all the others - Cuba nevertheless maintains very close relations with other countries that have already been brought to the honour of the news in this House, such as China, Iran and Venezuela. We have already had discussions on these issues. I think it is absolutely reductive to simply call for good intentions. On the other hand, we must support those diplomatic paths that I referred to earlier. I do not want to go too far and to confirm that the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of the agenda G2, presented by the Senators of the Fratelli d'Italia Group, an announcement that, like colleagues from Forza Italia, we will abstain, for the reasons I have already said, on the agenda G1. I always want to remember what the polar star that leads our government representatives must be, but also the debate that takes place in this House and in the Commissions: not only on Cuba, but on all the other countries that suffer this type of sanctions - on this I agree with Senator Alfieri - a thorough discussion must be addressed, because it is certainly an issue that must be stressed and not taken for granted. On the other hand, the forecast of these targeted sanctions must be brought back to the attention of all the countries that suffer them, because then the regimes and States that suffer them make the consequences of it fall to the individual peoples. I would also remind Senator Nugnes that my parliamentary group, my political party, has made the people's self-determination a founding element and therefore we must return to it, namely that the people must be our first interlocutor and our first treasure to be guarded. In repeating what has already been said about the explanation of vote, I hope that in the course of the debate we can really achieve objectives, but without going down to levels of ideology that can lead far from the ultimate goal, which is respect for the person and human rights. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u174	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me express once again my deepest and most sincere gratitude to Cuba for the support it has offered us during the darkest hours of the emergency, by sending doctors and nurses. This gesture of closeness and generosity will never be forgotten by the Italian people. [[Applause]] The Cuban reality is complex and this complexity is not only due to the many internal challenges that the country faces, but above all to external pressures aimed at sanctioning Havana's policy, but which in fact have had very serious repercussions on the civilian population, whose development has been severely hindered for more than sixty years. Yet, despite the economic blockade, the Republic of Cuba has managed to achieve amazing results, for example in the context of the right to study and the level of medical care it manages to guarantee. The state-of-the-art Cuban public biopharmaceutical industry has allowed the country to produce high quality and patent-free anti-Covid vaccines. These vaccines can be sold to the most developed countries, but they will also be offered to the most disadvantaged countries, in a spirit of protection and assistance from which some multinationals of the pharmaceutical industry should take their cue. [[Applause]] Let us therefore think of the great potential that such a country has and could unleash, if freed from anachronistic, unjust and disproportionate constraints. The 5 Star Movement is firmly convinced that dialogue and cooperation are better instruments in terms of results than sanctioning coercion. The same position was expressed by the European Union in the context of the 2016 EU Council Decision on the Agreement for political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Republic of Cuba. That of the blockade against Cuba is a strategy that has proved ineffective and proves that it has not produced substantial results in more than half a century, or rather has produced a result that no modern state should be proud of: it has starved a people. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Cuban people are suffering so much. I still remember when I visited the island, the gaze of the elderly and children, generations united in a suffering of which they are not guilty, punished for crimes they did not commit, deprived of dignity, but always willing to share what little they have, to give a smile. The vote of 23 March of the United Nations Human Rights Council has aroused a great deal of stir and several misinformed voices have accused our country of opposing the removal of sanctions on Cuba. I would like to make it clear here, as the Foreign Minister, Mr Luigi Di Maio, has already done, that that vote had a different nature and purpose. We voted, in fact, on the request to abolish in general the instrument of sanctions as such; therefore, it was not a vote against Cuba. In the UN Italy has always voted in favour of the removal of sanctions against Cuba (the last time, on 7 November 2019, when we voted for the end of the economic blockade together with 186 other countries; to oppose were only the United States, Israel and Brazil). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to pay attention to this fact: from April 2019 to March 2020 it is estimated that the blockade has caused Cuba to lose some 5.5 billion dollars. Overall, in the last sixty years the losses due to sanctions would exceed 1,000 billion dollars, an astronomical figure for a small country. Even today the Cuban people do not have access to some basic necessities. It has been reported that requests to American companies for medicines needed for children and cancer patients remain unfulfilled. Cuban products cannot be exported to the United States and Havana cannot import goods containing at least a certain portion of US components, even if produced by European companies. Think how much more serious the situation is today, with the difficulties imposed by the health emergency connected to the Covid. The country is essentially unable to pursue any form of economic development and the dramatic situation has been further exacerbated, among other things in full pandemic, by the policies of the Administration of Donald Trump. We therefore hope that the United States of the new President Biden will finally accept the appeal that Pope Francis launched in 2015, on the occasion of his visit to Cuba, when he asked political leaders to continue on the path of normalization of relations between the two countries as a service for the peace and well-being of their peoples and of all America and as an example of reconciliation for the whole world. I conclude by saying that we are confident that the new US leadership will lead to the overcoming of the extremist positions of its predecessors, finally opening the way to a necessary and no longer different change of attitude towards Cuba and its splendid people. For these reasons, I strongly announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars on the two agendas. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u175	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G1 agenda, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2 (text 2), presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Presidency notes that Senator Rauti, at the last vote, was unable to vote and that her vote was intended to be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u178	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly about organic endowment and production in relation to the Teatro dell'Opera in Rome, which since 1996 has been founded under private law as the other Italian opera institutions, which are nevertheless recognized as publicistic, despite privatisation. As with other lyrical-symphonic foundations, even in the case of the Rome Opera, the recovery plan provided for by the 2013 Bray law has not been implemented in the expected time; hence the shift of the terms forward, which however has not solved the problem. After the law of 8 August 2019, n. 81, then, aimed at stabilising precarious staff, by ministerial decree 4 February 2021, n. 68, was implemented Article 1 of the aforementioned law, requiring the lyric-symphonic foundations to send to the competent ministries their proposal of organic endowment formulated according to an ad hoc scheme. Well, in the three-year period 2017-2019 the Rome Opera had an active budget with the staff that is now being put into perhaps. Since 2020, then, given the closure imposed on the theatres by the pandemic, the Rome Opera has had a positive margin of production, thanks to the considerable savings on the various production costs and despite the lack of collection; to this are added the contributions of the Single Fund for Show (FUS) and the use of the Pay Integration Fund (FIS) for permanent and fixed-term employees of all the operating units up to 100% of the working time. How, then, is it possible that Fuortes' proposal for organic equipment, according to what was announced by the theatre management on 16 March, understates more than 100 units the budget so far considered adequate, especially for the production sector? How is it possible that the number of fixed-term contracts proposed would conflict with the transitional rules of Law No 81 of 2019? Yet the rule states that the proposal must be aimed at achieving adequate levels of production and productivity of the foundation, i.e. an increase for the statutory purposes common to lyric-symphonic foundations, which are the protection and diffusion of the Italian artistic-cultural heritage, lyric-symphonic and ballet. It is necessary to remind Superintendent Fuortes, emanation of the "Sinister" of culture, that it is not possible to make the wedding with dried figs. If you want to keep the productive staff to a minimum, you have to focus on precariousness and therefore probably on prêt-à-porter shows, with lots of greetings for the artistic production of quality and no chance to compete with the great foreign theaters. Nor can streaming, which is also an important opportunity, especially at this time, replace traditional performances. Finally, Minister Franceschini and Government everything, what are you waiting for to reopen the theatres? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u181	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my speech is aimed at bringing the closeness of the League and Piedmontese alike to the women and men of the State Police who for two days have been trying with great professionalism to maintain the order in Val Susa. On yesterday's day 400 antagonists, more than half masked and ready to fight, invaded the Municipality of San Didero (500 souls). It has been hours of terrible guerrilla warfare between the police and the non-peaceful demonstrators, who on several occasions have tried to assault the area that will be the seat of the new international bus station to prevent the workers of Tunnel Euralpin Lyon Turin (TELT) from recincting it. Blunt stones and objects have been launched against the Forces of Order and even five-pound boulders have been hurled into the windshield of vans carrying the workers. One worker and three policemen were injured, including a vice-president who was still hospitalized in Rivoli for inspection. The criminals also occupied the tracks, interrupting the Italy-France connections and blocking a passenger train to Turin, with immense inconveniences for the travelers, as the only way to the country was blocked by the protesters and the shuttle buses could not reach the commuters to take them to their destination. The mayors no TAV are outraged because they did not warn in time of the fence of the area. The work was to start in December, today it is April and I am outraged that an administration has granted the use of the multipurpose hall for an assembly organized by no TAV. [[Applause]] I am outraged because it is there that the protesters have planned the actions to be carried out to the detriment of the installation and the Forces of the order. The data updated in July 2019 saw EUR 143 million spent on the seven kilometres of tunnels excavated and EUR 146 million (estimated by default) for the safety and restoration of the damage caused by the disputes. If you do not change the register, the side effects will cost much more than the work. Such behaviors and acts of violence are no longer admissible, just as the attitude of those who govern those territories, who distance themselves from the clashes, complains of the excessive militarization of the valley, but at the same time authorizes and grants locals where to gather to sfascist groups with clear and declared belligerent intents. [[Applause]] I want to conclude this speech by quoting the provincial secretary general of the Italian Union of Unitary Police Workers (SIULP) of Turin: "One thing is certain: another ten years of these conditions would prove the end of the rule of law, unable to implement the will to modernize public works without activating a perennial massive employment of the Forces of the Order." The TAV therefore risks becoming the emblem of the weakness of the State, forced to deploy all its forces to allow the realization of modern and innovative public works. A decisive political and legislative response must be given and quickly, which goes far beyond the obsolete indignation to which then follows an unbearable nothing in fact. Thank you, President, and always on the side of the Forces of Order. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u184	ROMAGNOLI (M5S). Mr President, last 9 April, in Fabriano, the President of the municipal council Giuseppina Tobaldi and the Councillor Barbara Pagnoncelli brought together the permanent institutional table on the observatory of the employment situation in the territory. This observatory had already been established in 2018 for the critical situation of Whirlpool Indesit in Fabriano. The permanent table was assembled to monitor the situation of the territory that has now deteriorated. In fact, by chance, we have yet another entrepreneur who delocalizes his own production and in this period of absurd pandemic and global and total socio-economic crisis, which involves the world, has decided to move his own production in Poland, putting 410 people, 410 families on the road, with the induced we reach about 1,000 people. It's an absurd situation. Two weeks ago, at Easter, I was at the gates of the Elica to attend the workers' demonstration, which also saw the presence of representatives of the Federation employed metalworkers (FIOM) and I spoke with them, distracted people who are in a situation of difficulty. I have read a part of the note that has prepared all the associations together, which I will report directly to the Ministry of Economic Development in order to give a solution to this tragic situation. The restructuring plan announced by the Elica, world leader in the production of aspiring hoods, is unacceptable. Workers and workers immediately started mobilization and chose to remain in permanent garrison to protest against the management decision that provides 409 redundancies out of 560 employees, in the Ancona area, the closure of the Cerreto d'Esi plant and the 70 percent organisation of production in Poland. The decision of the company risks causing yet another social disaster and industrial desertification of the territory. For FIOM, the Italian Metal Mechanic Federation (FIM) and the Italian Union of Metal Mechanic Workers (Uim) the only possible solution is the maintenance of production at the sites of Fabriano, Cerreto d'Esi and Mergo and the protection of all employment. The letter is in the hands of Minister Giorgetti, who will be able to act immediately to resolve the matter. I would like to point out to all my colleagues that we must absolutely resolve the situation of work in Italy because it is too labile and too many situations are created because of companies that relocate work abroad. We're running out of time. We have to act. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u187	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech would once again like to draw attention to the fight against cancer, particularly in the age of children, and even more so after the action that the Senate adopted yesterday on the need for a new National Oncology Plan. The diagnosis of cancers in children at the time of the Covid is unfortunately dotted with delays and with the problematic consequences that this entails. Diagnosis, surgery and treatment have been delayed in many cancer centers during the pandemic. All this has serious and negative repercussions on the correct approach to the child with suspected diagnosis of cancer. The number of diagnoses and surgeries has been reduced and, on the other hand, many chemo and radiotherapy sessions have been postponed. The incidence and weight of the serious situation we are experiencing, linked to the pandemic, has upset the organization of many hospitals and cancer centers, especially in the economically weaker countries and regions, where the pre-pandemic health, organizational and structural situation was already very poor and in which SARS-CoV-2 has literally upset the weak oncology network, whose survival, indispensable to follow the many small patients with neoplastic diseases in their follow-up, was supported and is based on the many sacrifices and praiseworthy self-denial of many health workers. Precisely the latter have been moved and transferred to dedicated Covid departments, distracting an important human resource in the difficult balances existing in pediatric oncology departments. In addition, an important part of economic resources has been diverted to the pandemic health emergency, with substantial cuts in funding, reduced beds and staff, until the closure of entire departments and their conversion into Covid departments. As it was logical to suppose, low-income countries and regions once again pay the highest price. The pandemic has made it more difficult to get quality care and all this, unfortunately, is not in the field of oncology. The fight against cancer also in the paediatric age, thanks to research, is gradually dotted with more and more successes. All we need is careful planning, appropriate investment and adequate reorganisation of the oncology network, which goes beyond the complex problems of the pandemic. In conclusion, Mr President, let us not forget that the combination of early diagnosis and the quality of therapy is essential to defeat cancer, even more so in childhood. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u190	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, once again there has been an outbreak of Covid in the hawk farms, after Lombardy, this time in Veneto, in Padua, where there will have to be killed, in a few days, 3.311 hawks: a massacre authorized by ASL. This shows that the extension of the suspension of the activities of the farms of mink across the Italian territory, arranged by the Government until 31 December 2021, is unfortunately not a sufficient measure. Of course, in this way life has been spared and enormous suffering to thousands of puppies, about 35,000, who would be born right now, in April and in May, but who, after eight or nine months of imprisonment in narrow cages, would have been killed with gas, all for the sole and ignoble purpose of making furs. The mink fur is not necessary for man, but it is necessary for animals. It is disconcerting that today, in times of ecological transition, with a new and special Ministry, the Government does not consider the possibility of definitively closing these farms, as they have done, moreover, in many countries of Europe. I quote a few of them: the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Austria, the Czech Republic, Serbia, Germany, Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark have suspended farming, Hungary has prohibited the import of minks in order to avoid relocation and, finally, France has banned since 2026. The environment and ecosystems must be protected, and the exploitation of wild animals must be stopped. The fur industry must definitively abandon the production of these animals, in favour of sustainable materials, not only to protect the environment, but above all for reasons of public health. Façane farms are likely to have been the origin of viral lines that spread the coronavirus in the first waves. In fact, not always in the farms, as the LAV animalist association has shown, the safety rules have been respected. The World Health Organization itself has identified hawks as possible reservoirs of the virus, including the very dangerous variants. It would be enough for the Ministry of Health to force farmers to take serological tests. That is why we must close these farms immediately, even for very important ethical reasons, waiting for the enormous suffering inflicted on the beautiful and poor animals. I shall conclude, Mr President, with the hope that the Government will take immediate action both for the protection of animals and, above all, for the protection of public health. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u191	All right, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u192	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-315.ana.u193	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 15 April, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.16 p.m.
