ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 20 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u3	On 21 January 2021, the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 172 of 18 December 2020 laying down further urgent provisions to address the health risks associated with the spread of the virus COVID-19" (2070).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: I would like to inform you, Mr President, that today I resigned to the Head of State. The President of the Republic has reserved himself to decide and has invited the Government to remain in office for the handling of current affairs. With heartfelt cordiality, F.to Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u5	The Conference of the Leaders approved the schedule of work of the current week, in relation to the resignation of the Government. With the resignation of the Government, the activity of the Assembly and the Senate Commissions, in line with the general principles of the constitutional order, is limited to carrying out legislative activities related to constitutional deadlines - mainly decrees-laws - or obligations inherent to their prerogatives. The Commissions are authorised to convene only to express their opinion on expired government acts, as well as to continue the information procedures already initiated, including hearings of the Commissions meeting 5th and 14th on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. As regards the work of the Assembly, tomorrow's session will begin at 9 a.m. with the memory of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Italian Communist Party. Groups will be able to intervene for three minutes. The session will continue with the examination of the decree-law concerning restrictions related to the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. On the basis of specific requests, two hours and twenty minutes were allocated to the groups for discussion, excluding explanations of vote. The amendments to the House will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. today.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of work of the current week, in relation to the resignation of the Government: [[Wednesday, January 27, h. 9 - Drawing of Law No 2070 - Decree-Law No 172/2020, Restrictions related to the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on February 16)]] Amendments to bill No 2070 (Decree-Law No 172/2020, Restrictions related to the epidemiological emergency by COVID-19) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Tuesday 26 January. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2070 (Decree-Law No 172, Restrictions related to the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19) (excluding explanations of vote) [[Groups 2 hours and 20 minutes, of which: M5S 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 24' FIBP-UDC 22' PD 18' Mixed 10' FdI 13' IV-PSI 13' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 10' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u9	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the full protection of women's right to self-determination and free choice in the matter of voluntary termination of pregnancy is unfortunately again under attack in Umbria. Umbria is preparing to become the laboratory of the most conservative and retrograde right, which would like to avoid at local level the application of Law No. 194, a law the result of many years of battles and sacrifices of women. We women do not use the so-called abortion pills as contraception, nor do we use them as a whim, much less lightly, as the leader of the League supported alas a few days ago in this House. Women are entitled to self-determination and must be helped to be able to choose freely, certainly not hindered, by inserting cleverly within what they call policies in favour of the birth rate mechanisms aimed at directing women in one direction, the one they want. At the end of November last, the Umbrian Right presented a proposal for a regional law, which is still under discussion, to amend the single regional text on health and social services. This bill is an insult to women in this country. We talk about the protection of the concept and the possibility that every woman has if properly informed - I emphasize adequately - of having a direct knowledge of her fertility, by natural methods and also establishes a prenatal allowance aimed at meeting the costs of pregnancy and the fundamental expenses in the first months of the child's life, as if a child were a problem related to the period of pregnancy and a few months later, instead of the years of support necessary to raise their children. As is happening for many services of the Regional Health Service, the League in Umbria aims to externalize the consultors towards private structures, to make agreements with private insurance for women at home, aims to involve only the associations pro vita. I read that the Region intends to promote the formation of households. Here too we are of course in the Legist vision of the family unit. What does that mean? Will the Region organize arranged marriages, so-called repairing marriages or will it force unmarried couples to do so? And what about the rainbow families, which are now part of our communities? Yeah, in Umbria, too. In conclusion, President, in Umbria, as in other regions, the League tries to impose its ideology that goes against the social conquests achieved so far by women, bringing back in the time of more than a century their existential condition and creating a precedent of commodification of their body and their freedom to decide. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u12	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, news that makes us shudder and makes a veil of infinite sadness fall on all of us: Antonella, a ten-year-old girl died in Palermo after an alleged extreme choking challenge, promoted and advertised through the social platform TikTok. The prosecutor opened an investigation file, assuming the crime of incitement to suicide. It is assumed that the extreme and uncontrolled gesture was inspired by a video on the web, a social challenge pushed up to the extreme consequences. A stupid attempt, but unfortunately lethal of emulation of the insane gesture that escapes its control. The little girl has arrived in hospital already in very serious conditions for cardiorespiratory arrest and prolonged asphyxiation; consequences of her voluntary strangulation with the belt of the bathrobe attached to the heating system at home. This tragedy, from the first investigations, seems to be due to one of the crazy social games that are found on some platforms. No more than a few months ago the same dismay aroused an episode of very similar dynamics. The suicide of a child in Naples that seems connected to an extreme demonstration of courage, always on a social platform. From this tragedy we can only recall, on the one hand, the fundamental importance of parents on the essential need to always follow and accompany their children in their friendships and contacts, even leaving them alone to navigate the uncontrolled world of the web with all its pitfalls and traps. On the other hand, there is a need for tighter and more continuous controls by the competent bodies and more effective legislation that cannot be circumvented, capable of preventing dramatic events such as those mentioned. I want to conclude with a personal thought and of the whole House, expressing closeness to the family and respect for their pain. The parents, though struck by the immense tragedy that has upset their lives, had the strength and courage to perform an act of profound humanity and love for their neighbor: to donate the organs of little Antonella to save other human lives. From the discouragement of their tragedy, so many hopes of new lives will be born. In conclusion, the greeting of the school that Antonella attended: "Hello, for years we held your hand, now we will keep you in the hearts". [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u15	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to mention in this House two recent events in the province of Como. A chilling fact saw the death of an eighteen - month - old girl, little Sharon, at the hands of her mother's 25 - year - old companion of Romanian origin, who was at work. He said at first that the little girl threw a stove at herself. The baby had a cardiac arrest and could not survive despite the CPR. The autopsy at the hospital in Bergamo revealed something frightening: the child had been beaten and beaten on several occasions and had results of probable sexual violence. I still point out that the child was only 18 months old. The 25-year-old was arrested on charges of fatal abuse, but also of sexual violence. The other fact happened in Como, at the dormitory in via Borgovico, where, in the night between Friday and Saturday, a 32-year-old from Pakistan went to the room where the only woman slept and tried to abuse her by the neck, threatening her, groping her. Probably in the excitement, the woman managed to call for help, so this non-lord was arrested - both were homeless, he habitual guest of both the cafeteria and the dormitory - and was transported to prison on charges of aggravated sexual violence and injury to the woman. Too many people stay in our country where they have no title to stay, but there is a great deal of concern about security that is becoming less and less in Como and in the province. There must be tools in the structures, such as video surveillance, to prevent such incidents from happening, otherwise their closure is necessary, because first of all safety comes, even of the most fragile people. There is a great deal of concern, which is why I hope that as soon as possible special attention will be given to avoiding such hateful crimes. Already last September Don Roberto Malgesini was killed, years ago another priest - both of them were concerned with the most disadvantaged - and another woman was raped last October in the center always by an outsider without a residence permit. Facts like that have to stop. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u16	I kindly ask the senators involved in personal conversations, especially at the centre of the Chamber, to sit outside and let each colleague finish his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u19	DRAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to inform the House - but I imagine it has already been learned through the press - that Senator De Falco has made an express request to be able to implement a member of the group called the Mixed Democratic Centre. Well, I would like to make the Assembly adopted that, since 27 October last - or the next day - from the moment I left the Movimento 5 Star Group, I asked to be able to create a member in the Senate with the basic legal instrument of Popular Alternative that expressed elected parliamentarians by competing - I use this term not by chance - in the political elections of 4 March 2018 both for the House and for the Senate. I would like to extend my request once again. I am sure that this House, as well as Parliament everything and our Republic, certainly have the aim of safeguarding democracy, and I therefore await the response of any conduct that I might call unfair.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u20	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-295.ana.u21	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 27 January, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.49 p.m.
