ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u6	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak in memory of Franco Battiato. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I take this opportunity to say that the President of the Senate has authorized, for those who wish, short speeches in memory of Franco Battiato. Please, Senator Pilgrims. PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, I shall be very brief. Today we remember Franco Battiato, a great artist, an absolute genius who accompanied our lives with his songs and works. In these hours all of us who loved his art try to describe him in the most faithful and rigorous way possible. It struck me and struck that minimalist description that he made of himself in a blog he kept on a well-known online newspaper; he called himself a composer, singer and director. In the seventies, with his research music, he crossed the European avant-gardes and at the end of the seventies he switched to music of wide communication, alternating it with classical works. That's what he said about himself. He was a truly multifaceted artist, ranging from music to cinema (director of different films), to painting. He liked to move among the most diverse musical genres: from experimental and avant-garde music to cultured music, pop, electronic and ethnic music, opera. The great success and notoriety came almost by bet - as he himself said - for having picked up a kind of challenge launched to him by some music journalists, according to whom he would not be able to write popular songs. It was never more wrong, of course, because Franco Battiato began to write some very popular songs, but never trivial, each of which was a jewel made of notes that were interwoven with words, thoughts and very cultured concepts, as never before had nobody done, marking an absolutely new compositional road. His texts were absolutely original and complex, impossible to forget and in which he mixed all his culture, the taste for sophistication, mysticism and esotericism. Here came the successes of "The era of the white boar" and, then, the thunderous one of "The voice of the master": a success so great that, in addition to flattering him for having won fully the challenge to which I made mention a moment ago, it embarrassed him in some way. Over the years, he continued his musical and artistic research towards different atmospheres and introspectives, giving us other absolute masterpieces that have marked the history of Italian and world music. He also loved to cultivate collaborations with other artists, some of whom (especially important Italian female voices) gave his unforgettable songs and supported and helped with his generosity other young musicians. In addition to the musical fields, Battiato - as I said just now - has travelled other artistic ways. He was director of several films, including one on a famous composer - Beethoven - and also painter of figurative works on canvases and tables, which over the years have been exhibited in several solo exhibitions in Italy and abroad. It is very difficult to remember such a genius in just a few minutes, but the demands of this House's work impose this on us. I want to conclude by saying that Battiato, throughout his life, has cultivated art and spirituality, without compromising and remaining consistent and rigorous with himself and with his own principles. Farewell master, farewell companion of our lives. You've been suffering for a long time, but now, as you sang about it, you'll be relieved of your pains and mood swings and you'll heal from all diseases. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u9	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, deciding to be a musician like Franco Battiato faces many responsibilities, because it is like concluding a contract where all the conditions are listed. Doing so also means having an extraordinary passion, which is the driving force to start your musical career. It's a fire that burns inside and never goes out. It is to want to embark firmly on a path of which one is already aware in the first years of his life. It means persevering even in difficulties, because you want to reach a goal that has been set. And above all, it means being able to value your talent, which is fundamental, even if it is not the only determining factor. Even being strongly motivated is born in a natural way and never weakens in life, as well as determination, which is a powerful weapon that must be used not at the expense of others, but for personal use. Being musicians, like Franco Battiato was, means working hard every day; being productive every day; alternating the theory of music with practice; preparing, fully dedicating to the activities that are needed to make music become yours forever, with constancy. And the difference is the individual days. A few minutes, half an hour or an hour a day may seem nothing, but in the sum of months and years it makes a big difference. Franco Battiato collected all these necessary qualities: passion, perseverance, talent, motivation, determination, preparation and dedication. With innate sobriety, but also with strength and extrosity he loved music in all its curves and gleanings, with sweetness and harshness, but always with elegance. He was the musician of many ages, embracing with his creations entire generations, regenerating himself and his music at different times and needs. Thank you Franco for giving fullness and meaning to the difficult life of the musicians; for having colored with your music many of our days; for having loved and cared for up to the last moment of life your rare talent. Now you've found your permanent center of gravity. Rest. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u12	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the best way to commemorate Franco Battiato would probably be to listen to his songs and review his performances. It is impossible to frame it in a style: it has combined light music and song of author, pop and avant-garde, rock and opera, ethnic and electronic music. He said he was responding to homologation. "There is nothing that interests me less than the injury of others," he said. He was eclectic and surprising: he made his distinctive note of the oestrus. He was a genius who lived in the constant search for new artistic forms to be experimented with. "I'm always on my way," he explained and sang "the animal I carry inside never makes me live happily ever. You get everything, even coffee. It makes me slave to my passions. He always had a touch of self-irony and a constant creative tension, which made him the author of that music that was the soundtrack of our most beautiful years. The season of love comes and goes. All of a sudden, without realizing it, you'll live it, it'll surprise you. We've had plenty of opportunities. Losing them, do not regret them, never regret them. He loved to sing dancing on stage in a hymn to life and love, driving all things. Carnal passion is told in "Sentimiento nuevo" and the desire for spirituality in order to fully understand the essence of the human being is sung in the famous "And I come to seek you." Lyric tales, philosophical and literary references with an ancient flavor inserted in pop-tasting pieces have conquered entire generations thankful to this unique artist. In him we find the classical world and the oriental philosophies, curiosity towards distant cultures, exoticism and then Sicily - his and my Sicily - love and pain for a complicated and intense land, rich in history and culture, courage and contradictions, the sea and fire in an explosion of emotions. The attraction towards the world of nature is perceived in the famous "Birds" which has the power to make us feel the freedom and emotion of unpredictable flights and ascended very fast in space, in the clouds, with the rules assigned, to this part of the universe. And then hope in a society more attentive to the reasons of the other: "I dream of dialogue with those who think differently from me," he confided. I will not dwell on the brief parenthesis of his political commitment: today I want to remember the songwriter, the composer, the conductor who marked my magical and unrepeatable years; years that probably would not have been so special without his music. Thank you for all of this, Master. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u15	BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, who knows if Franco Battiato would have liked the commemoration in his honour and memory that we are carrying out here, in this Parliamentary House, as shunned and reserved as it was. He didn't even like being called a teacher. His most eloquent word is silence: We should all set out like him, to find beauty, were the words of the priest who celebrated his funeral yesterday. In a world of excesses, especially of excesses of words, of profusionous chatter, Battiate has taught that what matters is the essential. He has done so over decades of artistic activity, moving from experimental music research to progressive rock, from commercial pop to lyrics, with the particular alchemy of his texts, between linguistic suggestions, echoes of the soul, sometimes almost dreamlike journeys that have transported us to his imaginary worlds. And then Franco Battiato brought in the song mysticism, spirituality, the idea of a high, of a vertical line that, opposing the only horizontality of earthly life, pushes us towards the spirit. At a time for the whole of humanity like this, filled with doubts and uncertainties about the future, and with a present that tries to shake off the weight of an absurd and unpredictable event in its gravity as the pandemic that we are going through, the message that leaves us in inheritance Franco Battiato comes to us strong as a testament and light as a caress; strong in the spirituality that Franco Battiato has cultivated to the end, with his solid and living faith as the Etna of his land, Sicily, where he chose to live and die; and light, like the caress of "La cura" (The cure), one of his most significant passages, expression of his generous and responsible humanity for the good towards others. And it is precisely this, at this moment, the witness to be grasped for our lives, in our working, in our relationship with others, with whom we meet in our days. Let's remember to remove the mask, not that of the protection from the virus, but what we believe must protect us from the enemy that we fear being in the other, and instead we care for it, as far as we can. Thank you, Franco Battiato! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u18	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Franco Battiato would have smiled a lot at our words, at this commemoration in this Chamber because the trace of irony was the key to his entire artistic journey. It was because the great intellectuals, the great artists, the great men of culture manage to make a circle and master so much the enormity of the readings and reflections they have faced in life that, at a certain point, they are able to transform them into that word, that music, that note that may seem like an unheard-of simplicity, that they may seem like a joke, a game for someone, when in reality they are exactly that bridge that allows anyone to get to any point of cultural and spiritual enrichment, but only one condition: To want it. I believe that the relationship between Franco Battiato's aristocratic, snob dimension and the extraordinary popular dimension lies right here, in a continuous challenge first of all with himself, but also with his reader, with his listener, from the point of view both musical and of the choice of terms, as in a continuous and extraordinary intellectual game made the stimuli, to try to see if inside that word, that quote, that evocation there was someone who was playing the game and tried to go and see what you really wanted to tell. Thus, in the words of Battiatus, they crossed the epochs and territories. It has brought the Far East; today this is much more usual, but I have done so much earlier; it has brought our fundamental relationship with the other side of the Mediterranean and with the Arab world. After all, who, if not an extraordinary Sicilian, could have done this. It has brought us different cultures and religions: Hinduism, Buddhism, mystics, philosophy, great Greek philosophy; it has made us sing verses of Heraclitus going to deepen them and grasp them with a depth that most of the philosophical school readings perhaps does not even deal with, because, of course, everything flows, but above all to pass in vain is the true meaning of life. This is the great lesson of Heraclitus and it is also the great passage lesson in that wonderful album that is "The Ambush". Then he told politics a lot. He did it himself as a committed citizen, but also through his songs and has always kept these two elements together, because everyone remembers the years of "The voice of the master", the choice to become pop and of those years remember "White Bandiera", they remember his racism that kept him away from demential programs with electoral forums. Well, those demential programs have grown a lot in our society and the electoral forums today we regret them, because they were places of deepening compared to what is politics on television today. This Battiate reminded us of this many times, but not to keep away from political commitment, but to approach with depth, not to be those who change the shirts every time the season changes; not to be those who fall in love with power; to be those who instead get passionate about the suffering of men and women in every part of the world, who remember migrants who seek hope for their lives, as in the last wonderful piece that crossed together the meaning of life and the approach of the end of life with the adventures of those who seek a landing place. All this was Franco Battiato. I think he didn't turn today: he, in fact, believed in reincarnation, feared he could cross into an ant or a snake. I believe that this is not the case and will come back in many forms and will be present in our midst with his words, his notes, his music and we should be able to remember it by our actions in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u21	Drago (FdI). Mr President, today we remember the figure of Franco Battiato, Catania, eclectic singer-songwriter, an artist with an emotional language able to evoke, without mediation, the voices of the heart. This is what we regret today: not the character who approached politics, but the artist, the musical genius, the philosopher always at the forefront, in search of stability that influenced the human being, without changing his mind about things and people, a center of gravity of which we have all felt a huge necessity in this period. He had chosen to settle in Milo, an ethnic country, maintaining absolute confidentiality and simplicity, participating and organizing numerous musical events during the Milesian summers. His works will remain with us in the years to come and the tribute that we want to give him is the commitment not to forget the care that he gave us, through his music, defining us special beings. I would like to point out that Mr Mollicone has put forward a proposal to dedicate a cultural institute to Franco Battiato and as already in Catania mayor Pogliese has proposed and then decided to name the promenade of the city to our Catania artist. It was necessary to name him a place that would remind him of his artistic grandeur, so the mayor reports. In my introduction I said that he was an eclectic artist for attention also to painting. He was able to raise emotions and catalyze them in a positive direction, and the text of...The cure is the example of this. Even the sense of belonging to the Italian territory, the patriotic sense, which might seem a bit dichotomy with respect to its political orientation, is not really that. Battiato was born in Riposto, in the province of Catania - as you know, that is also my territory - and was seen with great respect. He studied philosophy at the University of Catania and indeed the content of his texts fully expresses his formation and cultural attention also to the Sicilian territory, which was a crossroads of cultures. Not surprisingly, some texts and videos that resume his creations report links with the Arabic cultural reality. The Brothers of Italy Group - as I have explained - has already put forward concrete proposals and we hope that the proposal put forward by the House will find rapid fulfilment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u24	Parent (IV-PSI). On the occasion of his 70th birthday, Franco Battiato said: I have written about things that are more or less good and to which I am more or less fond. Here and there, there are songs to which someone has had the generosity to recognize a literary value. They were recognitions free from envy and livor. Phone calls that were pleasurable. But not only of literary value is it for his songs, but also existential and philosophical research and the deep legacy they have donated to entire generations. Musical experiments and important lyrics represent the mark of his work, such as the emblematic phrase of the permanent centre of gravity. "Jesuits Euclideans Clothes as Bonzi to enter the court of the Emperors of the Ming Dynasty, which referred to the Jesuit Matthew Ricci. His works, in fact, are imbued with the encounter between different cultures, of contamination between East and West. From his land to the slopes of Mount Etna, a volcanic land, he drew the energy needed to open himself to the world and to the differences, but he has strong roots in his Sicily, to the point of bringing him also to a political experimentation, just him who had spent very hard words at the address of the political class. Just from the communion between anguished, energetic and vital volcanic lands at the same time, a few years ago in Piazza Plebiscito the Neapolitan people, generally jealous of his songs, applauded the notes of May era sung by Franco Battiato. A man from the South, therefore, left just in the month of May and as the beautiful song of the poet Salvatore Di Giacomo that Battiato had interpreted in a very sweet way, outside the classical canons: "Si stu sciore returns to May Pure in May I'm wrong" (If this flower returns to May also in May I'm here). Moreover, in his last work "We will return again, from the silence of his public apparitions, he himself cried out: Life doesn't end! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u27	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, it is exquisitely enigmatic, not because of a vice of vanity, but because of tireless curiosity, study and experimentation. So it was written by Franco Battiato and so was his life as a man and artist. Allow me to quote from his fiery and poetic texts: "And I come looking for you With the excuse of having to talk to you Because I like what you think and say Because in you I see my roots. This century now at the end Saturated of parasites without dignity impels me only to be better with more will. Emancipate me from the nightmare of passions. Perhaps reflecting on these words is for each of us the best act of homage that, as parliamentarians of the Republic, we can dedicate to Franco Battiato, to his special being. Thank you Franco Battiato! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u28	We have exhausted the interventions in memory of Franco Battiato. I join the praise of his music, of his lyrics. He was perhaps the only one who was able to quote a philosopher like Guénon in a song About Man, you said.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u29	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 988, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Gadda Members and others; Minds and Uncertainties; kinship and others; Golinelli and others. The rapporteur, Senator Taricco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Battistoni representing the Government, we are here today for an important passage for agriculture and for many territories of our country. I think it's a good thing that we're here to pass the organic farming law in the Senate just a few days from World Biodiversity Day. The organic farming sector is in fact an important sector, it is in Europe with more than 16,5 million hectares cultivated; it is in Italy with more than 2 million hectares cultivated; with a 3% growth in the last two years; with a growth that exceeds 50,000 hectares per year of organic cultivation; with 16% of the agricultural area used in Italy for organic farming; with a growth in the market and consumption of citizens of 105 percent in the last eight years. In 2020 alone, also due to Covid-19 events, organic consumption grew in large-scale organized distribution (GDO) and discounting by more than 20%; 3 billion of the value of the sector, the continuous growth of the production of Italy and exports and paradoxically - finally - thanks to the growth of the internal market, a reduction of the organic import that we had until a few years ago. All this happens in a context in which the European Union, with the European green deal and as a farm to fork, aims to reach 25% of the area cultivated for organic farming in the coming years. The European Union plans to invest more than EUR 40 million in the promotion of the organic farming method from next year, because it revisits in this type of agriculture an instrument for combating climate change, for the protection and protection of biodiversity and for a more sustainable agriculture. And it will do so with an action plan aimed at supporting consumption and increasing production and conversion across Europe. Among other things, it also provides, starting from 2022, for a new regulation that will introduce procedural simplifications, further review of controls, a strong strengthening of organic controls coming from third countries and a simplification of procedures for the certification of organic farming. This is part of a more general picture of European agricultural and environmental policies aiming at a 50% reduction in the use of plant protection products, 50% loss of nutrients for an improvement in soil quality and 50% use of antimicrobials in animal care. As I said before, it also aims at achieving 25% of organic farming, having clear that for many territories of our country this agricultural model is their perspective, because without this method of organic farming many territories, especially the marginal ones of poor hill and foothills, would not in fact have an economically sustainable perspective. Coming to the text that we are debating today, Article 1 deals with the object and purpose of the standard, essentially defining the concept of organic farming, largely from the Community regulations. The definitions are set out in Article 2. Article 3 gives the Minister of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism the role of national authority for guidance and coordination. Article 4 defines the role of the Provinces and Regions in the governance of this important sector. Article 5 provides for the establishment of a technical table which will oversee organic farming. Article 6 provides for the establishment of a label for organic farming in our country. Article 7 provides for a National Action Plan for Organic Production and Organic Products, adopted every three years, which aims to promote conversion to the organic method and support the establishment of associative forms that help agricultural enterprises; encourage the consumption of organic products; monitor the evolution of the sector, linking the actual production to the areas that are used to achieve it; support and promote the biological districts; promote the establishment of new farms, especially in those marginal and mountain areas to which I referred before; improve the certification and control system; encourage and support research by promoting traceability projects, in order to give guarantees to consumers. Article 8 provides for a National Organic Seed Plan, knowing that the seed theme is crucial for this type of agriculture. Article 9 provides for the activation of a fund for the development of organic production, which draws resources from that fund, which already existed, on the use of chemistry in agriculture. Article 10 provides for integration tools to help the organic chain as a whole. Article 11 deals with research in the field of organic farming. Article 12 sets out measures to support vocational training. Article 13 addresses the overall theme of biological districts to promote conversion to organic farming and to stimulate a territorial approach. It is essential for organic farming that it is not a theme of individual farms, but a theme of territories. The biological districts are established in order to simplify the application of the rules of certification at the level of the territory; to promote the development and the valorization and promotion of the processes of preparation, processing and transformation of organic farming; to promote the multifunctional activity of farms related to organic farming; to promote and carry out research projects that have the objective of spreading innovative practices. The Ministry and the Regions are committed to strengthening and promoting this agricultural system. Article 14 regulates interbranch organisations in the organic chain, taking into account the specific nature of organic farming in terms of the size and structure of professional organisations. In Article 15, we are talking about framework agreements precisely to strengthen the issue of the supply chain. Article 16 regulates supply chain arrangements for organic farming. Article 17 addresses the issue of agricultural producer organisations. The whole theme of the recognition and discipline of these organizations is addressed, redefining and characterizing them on this type of company. Article 18 regulates the whole issue of seed certification, which I repeat is a fundamental issue, precisely because within the world of organic farming there is the issue of the exchange and exploitation of small niches of particular seeds, linked to the context in which they are produced, which is regulated here. Article 19 refers the delegation to the Government for the revision, harmonization and rationalization of the regulations on controls for organic agricultural production, requested with a loud voice in the light of the experience gained in recent years with the legislative decree currently in force. We have a real framework law in our hands and we believe that it can enable the sector to achieve ambitious objectives, which are those assigned to this sector by the European Union, but which are also objectives present in the heart of our country. We will play an important part in this achievement, precisely because of the important role of growth in agriculture that this sector is playing. I would like to close with a few comments to clarify some of the issues and certain aspects that have been discussed in these days, sometimes even improperly. The first question is that we tend to tell organic farming as something old, old and backward. Organic farming today, on the other hand, is playing on a different frontier, that of innovation, to reduce plant protection drugs, to increase the resistance of agricultural crops and soil fertility and for greater resilience. There are many experiences that, in this sense, are emerging on the agronomic choices to be used, linked to precision agriculture, related to mechanical and physical intervention methods, to the recovery of an overall well-being of the environment, crops and animals. I am talking about symbiotic agriculture, the use of biochar, wood distillates and many other products that are being tested. A final consideration is linked to the issue of biodynamics. We in this law have adhered to the facts and the facts say that 90% of biodynamic production is related to exports to countries with high remuneration, such as Germany, the Scandinavian countries, Great Britain, the United States, Japan. 4500 companies with an average turnover per hectare that exceeds 13,000 euros and that, in full pandemic, has grown. The relationship between organic and biodynamic farming... Senator Taricco, I invite you to conclude. His time's been over for two minutes. TARICCO, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like a minute more. I just want to clarify this issue. On the definition of the relationship between organic and biodynamic farming, I want to read this text, which I think is very important. [[. (The microphone switches off automatically.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u31	Senator Taricco, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I repeat your time has expired for over two minutes. He will certainly be able to intervene in his reply and finish his long speech. Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u32	Mr President, representative of the Government, fellow senators, today is World Bee Day, which is celebrated on 20 May each year, aimed at raising public awareness of the importance of pollinators, the threats faced by bees and their contribution to sustainable development. I would like to remind you here today, ladies and gentlemen, of all our Italian beekeepers, who are over 60,000. There are one and a half million hives, which produce 23 varieties of honey, for a value for our country that exceeds two billion euros. [[Applause]] In particular, allow me to mention here a young Piedmontese beekeeper, Mattia Landra, who was the victim of a vandalism last week that destroyed 70 hives and killed millions of bees. Mattia, don't give up. We're all with you. All Italian beekeepers live! [[Applause]] We come to the measure before this House today, which is very important, as the rapporteur said, which I also thank for the work done in the Commission, as I thank the Government and colleagues. This bill, already approved in the Chamber of Deputies, responds to the growing demand for environmentally friendly, sustainable, healthy and healthy agriculture. The data showed an increase in agricultural land grown using the organic farming method and the retail sales of organic products. We try not only to frame well where the measure is inserted and what will be regulated, but above all to protect and protect Italian productions, which are always under attack (I remind you, ladies and gentlemen). In the world, as has been said before, 72 million hectares are cultivated with biological systems, including areas in conversion. Europe grows 23% of these territories, about 16 million hectares. The first three global sales markets are the United States, with EUR 44 billion, the European Union, with EUR 41 billion, and China, with EUR 8 billion. The highest consumption of organic products per capita takes place in Europe, in three countries, with a cost of 344 euros per capita in Denmark, Switzerland and Austria. Italy is at the top; it is the first country in the European Union, with 80,000 farms and over 2 million hectares of cultivated land. As cultivated hectares we are behind only Spain and France. It is also the third country in the European Union for the internal market, with 3.6 billion euros. A further factor capable of increasing the sector is European policies, which are starting precisely in these months and years to come: the green deal, the farm to fork. Europe, in fact, has set itself the objective of increasing the number of organically conducted agricultural land by 25% by 2030. This is a strategic fact, because it also highlights the importance of this bill. This is a growing sector, both in terms of consumption and production, and is able to activate youth entrepreneurs (more than 20% of young people are approaching this sector) and generate new jobs. The European Organic Action Plan 2021-2027 has also been launched, which supports with concrete initiatives the objectives of the European green deal, of biodiversity strategies. In fact, important investments are expected for 2021, for more than 49 million euros, and the establishment of green contracts, which provide for the integration of organic products into the minimum mandatory criteria for sustainable procurement, for example in school canteens and hospitals. Among the normative novelties present in the bill on organic farming there is the introduction of an Italian "bio" brand, so as to distinguish all organic products made with raw materials grown and bred in our country: it is a way to guarantee maximum transparency on the origin and the supply chain of products and to make consumers more aware. A technical table is also set up at the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, which will involve experts in the sector. The organic chain is strengthened through the promotion of aggregation between producers. In order to improve the text we have inserted a new article in the Senate, article 19: in particular, through the instrument of legislative delegation, the Government will have to provide, with the introduction of a more transparent system, to resolve the conflict of interest between controllers and controlled, for the benefit of the market and competition; to strengthen the protection against consumers; to reorder the discipline of the struggles against food fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, an excellent job has been done; it is probably not the best of all, but we have all contributed to making it as efficient and effective as possible with our work in comparison with trade organisations, industry, producers, processors, consumers (who are very important). No more chatter, no more facts. Italian organic farming is one of the European and global excellences. We defend our productions with a fundamental concept that must always guide us, at every moment: the final consumer is the real employer of the entire food chain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u33	She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u34	Mr President, today we are debating a measure that I am dealing with a long-awaited and very important issue: we are talking about provisions for the protection, development and competitiveness of organically-based agricultural, agri-food and aquaculture production. The organic method, linked to agri-food and agriculture, especially in my region, Sicily, which focuses above all on organic farming, is certainly urgent and necessary. There are many products that have organoleptic characteristics that are a touch for human health: for example, olive oil, but also orange juice (with us, especially tarot), tomato, rich in antioxidants that can remove the free radicals present in our body. Giving importance to some products with a positive biological capacity on our body and of extraordinary characteristics means respect for themselves, for the environment and for the health of one hundred percent. According to data from SINAB in 2019, Italy grants an area cultivated with organic farming of 15.8%, compared to a European average of 8% in 2018. With organic, it is possible to produce without chemicals. The biological control and the use of organic products translates with a bio method, which fits perfectly with the concept of health related to the product. However, organic production is certainly more expensive than traditional agriculture and must be supported by measures that can supplement farmers' incomes. Our territory is undoubtedly a natural factory of health from North to South. Organic is the only alternative to healthy food, especially as regards the fight against pesticides such as surfing. In this regard, Sicily attests to its primacy in Italy, according to the SINAB report. The data also give us good hope for aquaculture, placing itself as a new bulwark. Italy is one of the main players in the biological sector thanks to the enormous biodiversity of our territory. However, it is a value to be guarded and protected with extreme care and attention, because of its fragility. For this reason we must always strive to reward companies that guarantee fresh and healthy products, respecting the right cost of work, everyday effort and commitment to protecting the environment, food health and transparency. Having said that, I want to focus on the important aspects that the Senate Act 988 contains on the biological method. This is a measure consisting of twenty articles, but I would like to focus on some of them in particular, starting with Article 7, which refers to the fact that the Minister presents an annual report to the Chambers on the state of implementation of the Plan and the arrangements for allocating the Fund referred to in Article 9. It is precisely the article that provides for the establishment of the Fund for the Development of Organic Production, with a provision for part of the revenue deriving from the annual contribution due from undertakings holding authorisations to place certain plant protection products on the market which are considered to be harmful to the environment. These products include those of which the code indicates a danger of pollution to the aquatic environment. Innovative is also the introduction of sanctions in the event of non-payment of the contribution. The Fund's financial resources are intended to cover the costs arising from the financing of the National Action Plan for Organic Production and Organic Products and the National Plan for Organic Seeds, for the establishment of the Italian brand, for the financing of research projects, including those relating to food safety and health, for training courses and for the updating of teachers, already provided for in Article 11, in which it is envisaged, to work with support for applied technological research in the sector. Article 12 is also of interest to vocational training in the sector, laying down new and innovative provisions on the organization of production and the market, providing a definition of biological district, inter-branch organisations, framework agreements, supply chain arrangements and organic producer organisations. Article 18 provides that farmers producing varieties of organic seed entered in the national register of conservation varieties shall be entitled to local sales and may carry out free trade in those varieties. I think it must be stressed that the number of rules approved in Europe for the sector is not in line with the levels and quality standards applied in Italy. Starting with the conclusions, I reiterate the importance of the maintenance of the territories, as a valid safeguard for the prevention of hydrogeological disasters and for the prevention of fires, which only the maintenance of sustainable agriculture can guarantee. If we stop only at productivity in agriculture, it is certainly not a profitable activity, but if we only enlarge the zoom and evaluate its effects in the wide range and over time, organic farming is a wise investment. We need to learn to look at things systemically and, as I have liked to repeat for some time, holistic, since everything is economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u35	Senator Lunesu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u36	Mr President, Daniela Ducato, the Sardinian entrepreneur of Guspini, who uses organic waste to produce high-performance construction materials, is a bio-entrepreneur, knight of the Republic and world champion of innovation. Its main thread is the wool of Sardinian sheep, transformed into a special resource for sustainable construction and agriculture. It is his invention of a product, consisting of sheep's wool, olive oil and ingredients of waste of wine making, residues of cleaning of hives, propolis and honey, reused for the benefit of the environment, in place of chemical herbicides, which alter the pH of the soil. No chemical additive, herbicides or poisons are contained in the Ducato herbicides. The herbicide function is performed using steam and heat. So we protect the gardens, the vineyards, the orchards and even the urban greenery. So we guarantee the safety of consumers and farmers, ensuring respect for the soil and we do not alter its pH, so we introduce organic. Let's think of the small plots of land that are inherited from father to son, cultivated with vineyards and olive groves, and worked by wise hands, by those who with passion and sacrifice sow, prune, collect and protect from fires, becoming guardian of that territory. Organic production has become an activity with social and environmental function, whose products must be accessible to all, because they protect our health and that of the animals, preserving the environment. For this reason, the draft law under consideration will identify the strategies for promoting farms, which can easily be converted to the organic method, outlining guidelines and priorities and improving the control and certification system to ensure the quality of organic products, through the simplification of legislation. As required by European legislation, organic certification guarantees all levels of the production chain. The consumer will feel protected, if the producer and the seller are checked, with serious on-site inspections. It should be noted that, for the first time, a European regulation considers organic production, combining it with the promotion of food quality. Essential point: what enters food, from cultivation to production and processing, to feed for farmed animals producing meat and milk must be observed. The quality organic food for us will always be the Italian food, of our production, because we love the culture and respect of our traditions. We Italian consumers probably want to feed only on quality Italian food, which arrives on our tables from our crops and our farms. We are not interested in synthetic, modified and extravagant foods. I am referring to the European Union, which considers flour moths to be a new dried food. Even if it does not pose a risk to health and leave free choice to the consumer, I believe that the consumption of food related to quality, tradition and our territory will guarantee first of all health and longevity. [[Applause]] The bill provides for the establishment of a technical table at the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, which will involve experts, researchers and representatives of organic production, to identify critical issues and offer new solutions. The objective of the law will also be to strengthen the organic supply chain by encouraging inter-branch organisations and aggregations among producers; but above all, the government is asked to review and reorder the rules on controls and food fraud. In fact, it is fraud and the few controls that put a growing market at risk. Italy is the first European country for the number of farms engaged in organic farming; therefore reconnaissances of norms and revision of the sanctioning discipline are indispensable, if the Italian organic brand that characterizes the Italian organic products is used improperly. Support is therefore given to research in organic farming, to ensure product quality and environmental protection to safeguard biodiversity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u37	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, as a first general comment, I have to say that perhaps we could or should have expected a law on all agriculture, involving 500,000 farms, and not on a niche agriculture, whose numbers should really be explained in their own way, because to argue that 16% of the Italian land is dedicated to organic farming does not explain how much of that percentage is devoted to meadows and pastures, which receive subsidies, but do not produce anything. So we really need to explain. Let's get back to the law. I am pleased to note - and I would like to acknowledge this to the rapporteur and to the Commission - some improvements to the text, which have at least partly received indications and findings from the world of production and agricultural scholars. I would like to highlight two improvements: the introduction of the control node to Article 19 and the removal of the reference to national interest from Article 1. Compared to this aspect, I have expressed on several occasions that there is no national interest in a niche production protocol whose products offer no guarantee of greater health and no greater significant nutritional intake, as is scientifically established and as is also indicated in the catering guidelines of our Ministry of Health. In short, they are products that are found in supermarkets at double or triple prices compared to those without organic certification, but that have nothing more than the price. That is why I am frightened, following the rapporteur's words, that we want to encourage organic consumption. Why? Even if a principle of reality is restored, by removing the reference to national interest, I still have many reasons for dissent on this bill. Today I draw one, which I consider to be a regulatory abnormity and which, in the first place, if not addressed by us today with a meditated reduction of damage, will expose this House to scientific ridicule. I have tabled three amendments aimed at eliminating at least the explicit reference and preferential recognition of practices not only anti-scientific, but frankly esoteric and witchcraft. I am referring to the equivalence, for the purposes of this measure, between organic farming and biodynamic farming, an agricultural practice whose international disciplines include the use of preparations based - I quote - on manure stuffed into the cable of a cow's horn that has given birth at least once. [[Applause]] The horn, once filled, is buried to ferment during the winter and recovered in the days close to Easter to be subjected to the - quote - fundamental operation of mixing and dynamization with warm spring water, well or rain, which lasts about an hour and can be carried out manually, but also through special machines. I remind you that cattle do not lose their horns like deer; the horns are to be sawed by skulls, but the bill No. 988 (nor - it seems to me - any discipline) unfortunately does not explain to us if we must first slaughter the animal and cut the horns, or if these are to be pruned by the animal still alive. [[Applause]] It would be better to regulate this practice in order to avoid abuse. This I have just pointed out is called the preparation of 500 biodynamic agriculture (also called cornletam). Listen to how it works. According to the disciplinary, cow horns capture, when the cow is alive, cosmic rays so that, when it is dead or explanted horns, the manure in those horns, buried and disemboweled in function of astral combinations, will receive the etheric astral forces captured by the tip of the horn, thus increasing the power of that manure when scattered on the field. [[Applause]] I have always wondered what the dose of cosmic rays the horns must capture (cows must be primed) so that this will be effective. In the preparations of biodynamic agriculture there is also the preparation 502, i.e. a male deer bladder filled with achillea flowers, left to dry in the sun throughout the summer, buried at 30 centimeters of depth (not an inch more) in autumn and always unearthed during the Easter period. In the same discipline of the registered trademark Demeter, a multinational company based abroad to which you pay royalty, it is specified that every biodynamic preparation develops a powerful and subtle force, whose effect can be compared with that of homeopathic remedies, i.e. it is absolutely null and unprovable from the scientific point of view. [[Applause]] Here, too, I ask myself questions. For blisters, how many male deer will you need? A bladder for every biodynamic company? Is there a derogation from the hunting practice that allows the killing of so many beautiful animals from our national parks, or is it thought to import from abroad urinary blisters eradicated in other nations or continents? Colleagues, removing the word biodynamics from the bill, as my amendments ask, does not prevent producers from pursuing these practices and obtaining certification of organic product (for having just complied with the protocols), but explaining the reference to biodynamics in this law text will have the effect of giving dignity to the hornworm. I would also add that it is not an equalization between biological and biodynamic only for the part where the biodynamic mimics biological practices, but a total equivalence, to the point that the bill in question provides that a share of public funds is dedicated specifically to scientific research, training in the biological sector and, therefore, to biodynamic equalization. If this equivalence remained explicit (there can be no misunderstanding about its meaning), bodies and stakeholders could organize courses and projects focused on biodynamic esotericism with the money of Italian citizens. Thanks to the funds provided by the law, activities could be created and teachings could be established, with training credits, on the best depth to be buried in deer blisters, on the right direction in which to mix manure or on how to better orient the cow to pasture for capturing cosmic rays. [[Applause]] I believe that the mistake in supporting all this stems from a misreading of an EU regulation of 2018, relating to organic production, where the word "biodynamics" appears, but not for equalisation. It's just a quote. Two quotations give the definition of biodynamic preparations as mixtures traditionally used in biodynamic agriculture. The third quote is limited to saying that biodynamic preparations are allowed to be used. This quote is sufficient to clear biodynamic exoticism in Italian laws. Of course, the ultimate aim is to create a market for products which have no higher scientifically established characteristics than those from integrated agriculture, if not costs. I will continue, therefore, to do my due part to point out on every occasion that biodynamic products, such as organic agricultural products found in large distribution, have no better nutritional characteristics, nor are they better cared for the environment, providing both disciplinary, biological and biodynamic, wide derogations that allow them to use synthetic pesticides, which save our crops from attacks of parasites, allowing everyone to have good and healthy products. Mr President, I regret that we need healthy products for all of us, and in fact we have them. It is certified by European food safety authority (ESFA). Our integrated bioconventional products are among the safest in the world and this is the message of national interest that I would like to protect from a policy based on evidence. I conclude without hiding from you that as a citizen, even before being a scholar of life sciences, with thirty years of experience, I feel dismayed, dismayed and, therefore, disagree with the parliamentary legitimacy in the ordering of one of the most advanced countries in the world of anti-scientific, esoteric and sorcereresque practices, especially if I think that, to sanction the superiority of the cornoletame over scientific evidence, it is the Upper House of the Country that guides the G20, precisely in the year in which to fight the pandemic from Covid-19 the indispensable role of science has been universally recognized, celebrated and, also in this Chamber, hospitable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u39	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u40	Mr President, the cholere verb, which comes from Latin, does not only mean cultivating, but also living and venerating not the cow horns or the blisters of deer - Senator Cattaneo is right - but it gives us the dimension of the importance that agriculture has always held in our civilization, which is born precisely with agriculture and, indeed, with cereals growing at the beginning of our millennial history. For ten thousand years agriculture was the primary sector, from which its name also derives. In the last seventy years, however, its role has almost been the object of a mystification. The narration of agriculture has completely changed. Ten thousand years of history have been put in a drawer and agriculture has given itself a bucolic reading (almost it was a legacy of the past, a tradition that was not renewed) or agriculture has been seen as something to demonize, as happened in so many broadcasts, not least that of Rai a few days ago, where farmers and farmers are criminalized as if they were the absolute cause of all the evils of the environment. Actually, it's not like that, and we'll see about that. Farmers in Italy are above all examples of sustainability not only environmental, but also economic and, sometimes, social. Our agriculture is the sixth in the world for environmental sustainability. I believe that we should start from this in order to have a proper analysis of what we are dealing with today. We look at an important measure on organic, but certainly limited to certain areas and productions. In this case too, Senator Cattaneo is right, when she says that, of 15 percent of cultivated land, the majority is cultivated with fodder or pastures, so not with important human productions. We will end up believing what a professor theorizes as Heidi's syndrome, namely that agriculture is only the kids who are hello to you and not industries and farms that over the years have developed a real entrepreneurial capacity that today sets you as the basis of that great agri-food that makes our nation one of the most important in the world, if not the most important. [[Applause]] There are almost 800 of our PDO and PGI products worldwide, so much so that italian soiling is worth 100 billion. This means that they recognize us as so good that they copy us for 100 billion a year: four financial maneuvers of this High House. So let us give Caesar what is Caesar's and let us lift up this vision of a bucolic agriculture, made of tradition alone and never renewed. Historically, in this nation, especially in the last century, but also in the nineteenth century, when the large agri-food houses (the Buitoni, the De Cecco, the Barilla) were born, all between 1850 and 1870, but also after, the agricultural policy was the subject of strong public intervention. How can we not quote Strampelli, the agricultural geneticist who revolutionized the wheat and brought our productions per hectare higher than those of any other country in the world? Even only in 1984, when someone mocked agriculture through the movies - I quote one of them all, "The country boy" - in which the countryside was described as something old-fashioned, in that same year we had yields per hectare for maize higher than those of the United States. Nobody told us that, though. It made sense to believe that the industrial boom had converted this country from poor and agricultural to an industrial. And it is no coincidence that most of the urban agglomerations were born during that period, because, as long as we gave a reading of the agriculture of that type, we indulged in the impoverishment; we made sure that there was that transfer of forces and abilities, even intellectual and scientific, from the countryside to the city. No one can forget the role they played in the agronomist years such as Draghetti, Gibertini or Edoardo Bassi, who beat the campaigns to explain what were the evolutions of agriculture or the agricultural reform of the fifties and sixties, with expropriations, fertilizers and pesticides, which gave a huge boost to yields, if used properly. Some 7 billion people will have to feed and, if the farm fork says that 25% of the land has to be devoted to organic farming, that 75% will have to have made us not to make synthetic-scientific meat, nor to call meat soy meatballs, but to have such a production as to increase our income per hectare. The other countries of the world do not sleep on agriculture, they do national politics. The United States has understood that the dominance of the economy does not only exist through arms, but also through its food independence. They know it in Israel and even in Spain; they know it in China, whose leader, when the Communist Party's ax hit his father, went to work on a farm, so he knows the problems of agriculture and also knows that it is satisfying the food needs that make peoples independent. Russia knows that, after we have imposed unfair sanctions on it, so it has structured itself to have its own economic independence. In Italy, however, we have abandoned everything and we have also done so because of some scandal for which farmers have paid more than politicians, and I am referring to the grain cluster. I repeat that if we want to feed 7 billion people today, we must invest in innovation, because tradition is not a bunch of chains that binds us, but it is beauty to be preserved. We know the tradition, but we have always been for an innovation that allows us to be up to date, as it has been in the many periods of Italian agricultural policy, before the war or after the war, bringing back to the center the demands for the growth and innovation of the country. Let's focus therefore on innovation, on the recovery of waste, on the purification of contaminated water, on the machines with sensors to detect the infesting plants, on the nanotechnologies, on the automated greenhouses and on everything that brings us back with our feet well anchored to the tradition, but surely projected towards a future of competitiveness with all the other nations, that however also guarantees Italy to play its role and to close that chain of the made in Italy that is today crushing only the agricultural producers. In fact, the large distribution today pays a price and that's what we have to work on inside the Upper House, not on laws that are important, but translate into an interest for a few. We must guarantee farmers a fair income that gives them dignity, otherwise we force them, as is often the case, to convert their agricultural fields into photovoltaics. This is not the agriculture we want, nor the modernism we want. We want the farmer to be put in a position to do business seriously, using innovation, broadband and all the tools that the modern century makes available to him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u41	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, food systems around the world are moving to promote change towards healthier and more sustainable lifestyles. In this context, organic farming is the only viable way, if we really want to take the path of European green deal and farm-to-fork, in short, if we really want to achieve that green revolution that we all speak of as promoters. A real ecological transition in the European spirit of the green deal and recovery fund will only come from a greater awareness of consumer food choices in favour of environmentally friendly products, human health and work. Moreover, organic farming has a high market value. Consider, in fact, the increase in consumption recorded a year ago, when it had peaks of 20 percent more in March-April, thanks precisely to an increase in trend value of 0.2 percent in the first quarter 2021. Italy also has one of the largest national quotas for organically used agricultural land in Europe, with 15.8%, as the other previous speakers have said. Our country is the first in Europe and the second in the world in the export of organic products, with over 2.6 billion euros, about 6% of all national agri-food exports. However, in order to strengthen this sector it is not enough to declare itself generically in favour of bio, but it is necessary to be concretely alongside organic producers, ensuring their profitability and ensuring the widest possible participation in this sector. Hence the need for my amendments, which I shall then explain here in this House. There is, however, another point that I would like to stress, which stems from the need to refute the very partial truths spread in recent days in the press by Senator Elena Cattaneo, who preceded me, who tabled three amendments to exclude the word "biodynamics" from the law, making it a pastist and enemy thing from agriculture, a scientific ridicule, as we have heard. This is absolutely false and, by the way, I think it's much better the cornoiletame of the so dear to Senator Cattaneo, an extremely harmful contaminant of which she seems to be paladin, along with the rest of the chemistry. This is also demonstrated by the fact that last year I voted against my motion, approved by the whole of this House, to exclude this dangerous substance from food. Biodynamic agriculture must be considered an evolution of the biological one, to which it is absolutely complementary, but it has distinctive characteristics and characteristics. It is important to make Senator Cattaneo understand that, with regard to the definition and use of preparations, there are Community regulations that recognise these specifications precisely for a long tradition of application and that characterize the agro-ecological management of the company with closed cycle. The necessary reference to tradition is consistent with EU legislation (Regulation 848 of 2018), which recalls tradition in terms of biodynamics. Even the Italian legislation already covers biodynamic agriculture and literally identifies it as such and cites it alongside two others, the conventional one and the biological one. Since the first regulation of organic farming in Europe in 1991, Community regulations on bio-agriculture always include biodynamic agriculture (see Regulation No 2092 of 1991, in which biodynamic preparations, so criticised by Senator Cattaneo, are defined as appropriate for the activation of compost). Finally, the new regulation on bio-agriculture (No 848, approved on 30 May 2018) confirms the previous case law, but inserts bio-dynamic agriculture into the biological one, explicitly naming it, and in Article 3 defines the substances that are traditionally used there and includes bio-dynamic preparations in the list of organic farming substances. The reference to tradition is relevant: this is a term that has a particular value in law and has a value in a common law key, precisely because the legislator intended to recognize it. We are not faced with anti-scientific practices, in fact the review of scientific publications on biodynamic agriculture in scientific journals subject to referegio, published for Cambridge University Press in 2009, highlights the consistency of scientific research in biodynamic agriculture, stating that a good part of the research results demonstrates the effects of preparations on yield, soil quality and biodiversity. The most recent review on the subject, in 2018, examined 147 publications in scientific journals submitted to peerreview and highlighted the positive results of the literature analysis. Professor Pacini said that biodynamic systems have shown that they have the potential to be superior under given conditions, both conventional and biological, as regards the stability of soil aggregates. These preparations, under certain circumstances, have a positive impact on biodiversity. Biodynamic systems have a positive impact on the use and efficiency of energy, and in the state of the art, no one has been able to detect what scientific principle is at the basis of the functioning of these preparations, nor to demonstrate their supposed scientific inconsistency. Rudolf Steiner, who was the founder of biodynamic agriculture, studied chemistry at the Vienna Polytechnic and obtained his PhD in philosophy at epistemological level, had prestigious academic positions, formulated a rigorous epistemological theory, was the founder of the current of thought called "science of the spirit" and was one of the fathers of phenomenology, along with Husserl, his colleague from Vienna. To develop biodynamics experimentally were the most famous scientists, university professors, students of Steiner. The first mathematical formalization of the principles underlying biodynamics was by another student of Steiner, the mathematician George Adams, with an honorary degree in chemistry in Cambridge. Which scientific institutes and universities do you research and teach biodynamics? Some prestigious examples: in the Netherlands the University of Wageningen and the Louis Bolk Institut was founded in 1976 in Driebergen; in Germany, biodynamics is introduced in all agricultural faculties and in particular is taught at the University of Kassel, the University of Bonn and the University of Hohenheim; in the United Kingdom there is the University of Coventry and there are many other institutes in Denmark, Australia, the United States and many countries of the world. In the United States, since 2005 the Biodynamic Research Network has been established, which will host several research centers operating in biodynamics all over the world. Biodynamics is therefore an agricultural practice not subject to restrictions or patents and does not consist of a private certification. Demeter's voluntary certification aims to ensure that the consumer is transparent in the application of the agro-ecological closed-cycle method. Demeter in Italy is a non-profit association of Italian farmers founded in 1984 to protect the fruits of agricultural work and transparency to consumers, the noble end of a certified agriculture. It is one of those standard organizations that the UN declaration on the rights of farmers indicates as a garrison for states that commit themselves to supporting and guaranteeing the rights of farmers. Not to mention the economic impact assessment: the bioreport data, reported by the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies (MIPAAF), attest that in 2018, for every hectare in Italian agriculture cultivated in a general and conventional way, there was an income of 3,207; each hectare cultivated in biodynamic agriculture produced an income for our farmers of 13,309 euros. The data shows that biodynamic farms are aimed at quality crops, highly profitable and therefore constitute a model with exemplary character of an Italian agriculture that wants to be evoked to quality and high remuneration per hectare: something other than scientific ridicule! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u43	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will only comment on a few points which I consider to be peculiar to the rule we are debating today. The rule states that organic production is activity of national interest with social and environmental function for rural development, environmental protection, the protection of biodiversity and sustainable development. Dear colleagues and Government, thanks to the position and conformation of our peninsula with its islands, the variety of climates, the diversity of altitudes and latitudes, biodiversity in Italy exists by nature. That biodiversity that must be absolutely protected and that must be opposed to the flattening of the most fraught globalization. [[Applause.]] If we add our history, our great culture, unique in the world in terms of food and cuisine, the fact that UNESCO has included the Mediterranean diet in the list of the intangible cultural heritage of humanity, defining it as a set of skills, knowledge, rituals, symbols and traditions ranging from landscape to table, we can understand why we have the largest number of companies producing and processing organically in Europe. We are among the first countries in the world in terms of exports, we are among the first countries in Europe for areas dedicated to organic production with about two million hectares, we have in recent years had the biggest indices of growth in Europe with our citrus fruits, our oils, fruits, wines, vegetables and so on. All this with a constantly growing e-commerce, which facilitates the spread of products even of the smallest companies that create typicality, quality and specialties. It is precisely on this dimension, on the parameter of the small barrel, that we can distinguish ourselves by finding and creating a market. In this sector there are many small and medium-sized companies, many of those VAT matches present in all sectors of the economy, often tarted on many fronts that constitute the backbone of the Italian economy. Those companies where employees, manager and owner every morning have to arm shields, swords and helmets to start fighting and this only to produce, create and build in all sectors of the Italian economy. But coming back to the theme of agro-food, I come to mind, for example, the fancy food shows, where the stands of Italian producers are always among the most visited and crowded. In this context, the Italian organic brand, which distinguishes organically produced products with raw materials grown or bred in Italy, becomes an additional guarantee for consumers and producers, especially in the field of export, where all the products of the Italian agri-food sector, not only those that follow the organic farming method, are highly appreciated and also imitated - ahinoi - often in a non-legal way. We also add that the regulations, regulations and control systems that we have in Italy are among the strictest in the world and we have a duty to affirm it and repeat it, even against a custom that often sees us self-critical and even - let me say the word raw - self-harmful. This bill, to respond to what I have heard, states that there may also be other methods, that only if they respect those of organic farming can they be declared organic. Then, with a little pride, I can say that the sector has a great development in the South of Italy (so in Sicily, Calabria, Campania and Basilicata) and this - I am sorry to say - also goes against certain operations of some Ministry that has cut the funds towards the South. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Trentacoste. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, organic farming is a comprehensive system of farm management and food production based on the interaction between best environmental practices and climate action and the preservation of natural resources. Through the application of strict standards, the organic method contributes to product quality, food safety, animal welfare, rural development, ecosystem protection, biodiversity protection and the achievement of the EU's greenhouse gas reduction targets, contributing to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The organic sector is constantly growing and represents an important part of Made in Italy, placing us among the leading countries in Europe. The agricultural areas dedicated to organic farming are equal to two million hectares, 15 percent of the national agricultural area, mainly located in Emilia-Romagna, Puglia, Calabria and Sicily, with over 80,000 operators employed in the supply chain. In the light of these numbers, the State has a moral obligation to promote and support production using biological methods, including through interventions aimed at encouraging the establishment of bodies and platforms for the aggregation of products and supply chains. The recent launch of the organic research call, with an allocation of EUR 5 million from this year and already foreseen in the 2020 budget law, for the promotion of the sector, shows how much is being focused on the environmental sustainability of agriculture. However, it is not yet enough and much still needs to be done. Among the main objectives set out by the European Commission, there are the achievement of 25% of organically grown areas and the reduction of at least 50% of pesticides: two strategic axes in which Italy will play a key role. In our opinion, only an agro-ecological, ecosystem and environmental quality vision can recreate a proper relationship between man and the environment. I therefore hope that the sensitivities in this House will contribute, in the near future, to the outcome of a broader legislative measure on agro-ecology, recognising agriculture's crucial role between environmental protection, food safety and quality of life. The development of organic farming is of great importance, so much so that it is one of the priority objectives to be pursued, together with the reduction of the chemistry used in agriculture and animal husbandry, the improvement of animal welfare and the fight against the loss of biodiversity. The agricultural reality organized according to eco-compatibility criteria is, therefore, the most appropriate field of investigation to start a cultural renewal in the direction of sustainable development. In this context, organic farming has a significant role to play. According to the Rodale Institute, this method uses 45% less energy than conventional energy and makes more efficient use of energy itself, unlike conventional agricultural systems, which produce 40% more greenhouse gases. In addition, organic soils have a carbon sink function, which is on average quantifiable in half a tonne per hectare per year. In this respect, organic farming offers farmers significant options both in climate change mitigation policies and in adaptation to these changes. At the beginning of the third millennium, therefore, every effort must be devoted to reorienting the common heritage of knowledge in the direction of an agro-ecological and eco-friendly humanism. In order to increase this trend, it is necessary to better organize the biological districts and the production chain, with both technical and commercial support. We need to focus on digital transition, for example using blockchain technology to track agri-food products. Data from the National Information System on Organic Agriculture (SINAB) show this: since 2010 hectares for organic crops have increased by more than 75% and the number of operators in the sector by more than 65, while consumption of organic products has more than doubled since 2013. Keep in mind that organic farming is the only agricultural method that is clearly regulated and recognizable in the eyes of consumers thanks to its certification, which has been fundamental for the expansion of the market, giving an identity to those products. In this regard, one of the most interesting innovations contained in the draft law under discussion is the creation of a bio-italian brand, which will provide consumers with the opportunity to identify the products that come from the completely Italian organic supply chains. Action plans for the sector and seeds, a fund to support research, training and promotion of framework agreements and supply chain arrangements are also envisaged. Organic foods produced without the use of chemistry are healthier and guarantee higher health standards. This was clearly stated by European Agriculture Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski during the presentation of the European Union's Organic Action Plan, adding that, in his ideal vision, all European agriculture should be organic. In conclusion, organic farming has a lower environmental impact than conventional production and there is an increasing demand for organic food, both for Europe and globally, as more and more people are looking for healthy food. In line with this, the European Commission has recently presented the new Action Plan 2021-2027 for the agro-ecological transition of European agriculture. The objectives are identified by the green deal, the EU farm-fork strategies and the protection of biodiversity: treble organic farming areas and halve the use of pesticides and antibiotics by 2030. The Plan supports consumption, aiming at greater diffusion of organic products in public and school canteens. At the same time, improving traceability of organic products will help prevent fraud and increase consumer confidence. On the production side, it is necessary to encourage farmers to move from conventional to organic, through support actions. At present, only 1.8% (EUR 7.5 billion) of the common agricultural policy is used for organic farming, while for the sustainability of the sector, organic districts could combine agriculture with tourism and territorial development. Italy can play a leading role on these fronts. On this path we must therefore continue to work in order to go in this direction. Finally, I would like to quote the words of former Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, who, on the day of the vote of confidence in his second Government, in addition to considering the agricultural sector as central and decisive, expressed his support for the biological approach in a passage of his speech, saying: It is necessary to develop the organic agricultural supply chain, best agronomic practices, increase the quality of the territory, support farms, invest in crop research, with particular attention to the efficient use of water resources. [[Applause]] Colleagues, today is a day that, inevitably, will remain in the history of our country as a turning point towards a clearly different and distinct future from the harmful habits of the past, according to that green turning point, friend of the environment, that ask us for a long time the young people of the Fridays for future movement, that guarantee to all of us to live on a more healthy and balanced planet, free from intensive and polluting practices. With this legislative measure, Italy will be able to play a leading role in Europe, strengthening the leadership of producer in the agro-food sector and, in particular, in the organic sector. This bill represents a new way of approaching the next global challenges, in which thought and action conform to the ecological paradigm. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u46	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have made clear in their speeches the importance of this sector for many territories and for the agricultural economy of the country. Coming to the question I had left out before and which I believe needs to be further examined, precisely in the light of the statements made by Senator Cattaneo, I would ask all my colleagues, if they wish, to take a look at the general specification of Agribiodynamics in force on the biodynamic product, in which dozens of productive practices are contemplated on what the manure must be matured, on the type of subvescio practices that should be followed and other issues, which constitute agronomic practices of great common sense. I believe that reality must be represented not spottically, as it has been done, but for what it is. On the subject, then, I want to clarify two things. The first concerns what we have written in the text, precisely in the light of certain procedures and practices. Look, I'm a farmer: my grandfather has always bottled wine following the lunar phases and has always planted according to certain principles. We do not go into the matter whether it is right or not to follow the moons; we reason on the facts, which are written in the text. In the text we wrote: For the purposes of this law, production methods based on prepared and specific specifications applied in compliance with the provisions of the European Union regulations and national rules on organic farming shall be treated as organic farming methods. So all those who respect organic farming are treated equally. We also wrote: To this end, the biodynamic farming method and the methods which, having applied for it in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy with a special decree, provide for compliance with the provisions of the first period. This is because organic farming has already made this choice and in its specifications it is already provided for full compliance with the provisions on organic farming. We know that symbiotic agriculture, permaculture and other systems are going in this direction; when they have gained this conviction and will apply to the Ministry, they will receive the same treatment as for organic farming. This is what we are talking about, not about other issues. As far as we are concerned, we are concerned that the foods that are produced for our consumers fall within the full respect of the rules laid down for the health and health of the products and in compliance with all the regulations provided for. After that, if someone wants to do it with the moons he believes or believes that we have prepared ourselves to help, provided they are not toxic, it does not create any problem for us. Why do we have to cripple a system that is worth hundreds of millions of euros, exports 95% of the product and guarantees farmers an income of 13,000 euros per hectare? I believe it is in our interest, as legislators, to stick to the facts and the facts are these. From this point of view, therefore, I hear that it is not as it was told. I'll make one final point. Here too and in the newspapers, reference has often been made to a German association called Demeter, which fifteen years ago was the only one dealing with biodynamic agriculture, but this is no longer the reality. Today we have four certification bodies in Italy: one is Demeter, but there are also the Italian association Agribiodynamica; Biodynamic wines, which deals only with enology, but is always an Italian certification association; and Verdèa - Organic Agriculture, another certification body. We are no longer within the scheme in which we were thirty years ago, but there is a new one, in which they are believing and investing a lot of farms. We do not force anyone to do anything, but we believe that if someone opts for this solution, they must have the respect and dignity that this type of agriculture deserves, for the international credibility that they have received today. I believe that when we talk about European orientation towards a more sustainable agriculture, we must not pretend that agriculture and the European Union have taken a blind spot on these issues. The choice the European Union has made is of great common sense, very respectful of the quality of our soils and of our agriculture, and I believe that it was right to take this kind of road. It is legitimate for someone to think in a radically different way; I do not want to convert or convince anyone. However, I believe that he has full dignity in this season and in this country the approval of a law on organic farming, because - I repeat - it is a growing phenomenon and thousands of companies bind to this type of agriculture their prospects for the future. I believe that we have taken and are taking a very important step today, giving our country the opportunity to equip itself with this instrument and to grow in this sector. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u48	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u49	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken and the members of the Agriculture Committee who have worked on the text for its approval. I would like to stress that this is an area in which Italy is first in Europe not only for production, but also for the dedicated area (16 per cent). I think that when we talk about organic, we have to make a certain difference to other products. Honestly, I share 99% of the speeches that have been made, because then everyone has spoken in favour of the bill, and that is an important fact. I do not want to enter into controversy, because everyone is free to think what he wants, but I believe that in his reply the rapporteur, Senator Taricco, explained it very well. I would just like to remind you that there are now 4,500 biodynamic farms in Italy and they represent an important reality, which agriculture in general must take into account. Thank you again and I wish you every success, partly because it has been a long time, as the rapporteur said, that this sector was expecting a law to regulate organic farming as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u50	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask you to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u51	Mr President, I believe that in explaining the amendments I have tabled you will also find the answers to what the rapporteur has said. In particular, amendment 1,200 removes from paragraph 3 of Article 1 the specific reference to biodynamic agriculture found in the text, since it is a practice without scientific references, based on esoteric and witchcraft principles. In any case, since, as specified in the same paragraph 3, there is a procedure of equivalence established by the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, to which any method respecting biological disciplines can comply, it is unreasonable to explicitly mention only that specific type of agriculture, as possible subset of methods comparable to bio. I believe that this regime of exception and explicit taxonomy for biodynamics alone is an element of confusion for the consumer citizen and also discrimination against other agricultural practices, however respectful already today of the disciplines of biologicals, which will not enjoy explicit recognition, and that it also signals a clear cognitive bias of the legislator, that is, an ill-conceived preconception towards the esoteric practice of biodynamics. As we shall see, this preconception is fully explained in Article 5, which provides that only the subset of biodynamic practice is entitled to a specific representation of its stakeholders at the technical table for organic production. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to carefully evaluate the amendment and consider voting in favour of it. Finally, I would like to reiterate that, if this amendment were adopted, there would be absolutely no consequence for biodynamic growers who respect the limits and rules of organic farming and the legislator would spare himself from giving legal dignity to ideas that, however suggestive, relate to the reality of things as much as horoscopes can.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u52	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u53	Mr President, I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u54	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u55	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u58	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, organic farming is a great opportunity for our country and, with this bill, we establish certain rules to protect the health of citizens and products. I believe that this draft law is very important, precisely because, by laying down rules, we can avoid dramatic cases such as that which took place a few years ago in Germany, where there were 70 deaths of Escherichia coli. First they accused the Spanish cucumbers, then the Italian tomatoes and then it turned out that the problem was the organic products of a German company that did not respect the rules for the preparation of the same. We're talking about 70 dead. Biodynamic agriculture, which is a set of pseudo-scientific practices, based on the spiritual vision of the world, elaborated by the theosopher and esoteric Rudolf Steiner, was born in 1861. I would like to correct my previous Senator: Rudolf Steiner never graduated in chemistry or engineering, but attended some courses at the University of Vienna and then graduated in philosophy. The scientific studies carried out did not detect any increase in quality between biodynamic products and those cultivated with the usual biological methods. On the other hand, a camomile prepared by putting it inside the ox intestine and buried for a few months could then become, on the consumer's table, a bomb, for example because of the Escherichia coli. This professor gave eight lectures on agriculture in 1925; hence this biodynamic theory was born. I am very open to any innovative theory; this is not innovative, but it has come out anyway, perhaps because this holistic method is very pleasant nowadays to someone. In full respect of all the 4,000 companies that have biodynamic products, I think that they deserve an eye on themselves and should not at present be equated with the truth, depth and importance of organic farming. I shall therefore vote in favour of the Cattaneo amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u61	ABATE (Mixed). Mr President, I rise to speak on Mr Cattaneo's amendment. Surely we are going to approve this important and awaited measure, which not only provides for agricultural and agri-food production, but also organic aquaculture, with all that comes from it. I would like to thank Senator Mollame for the work he has done in the Commission and for the work and discussion that has been done on this measure both in the Commission and in the Ministry. With regard to this amendment, I should like to make it quite clear that the issue of the biodynamic method to be included in this measure has seen a great deal of debate in the Commission, because all the questions raised by my colleague, Mr Cattaneo, have been dealt with extensively. We have solved the problem by including, at second reading, in the competent Commission of the Senate, the provision in Article 1 that all the methods used in agri-food production which comply with the rules of organic farming are treated equally. The equivalence is therefore not automatic, but is subject to the request of the person concerned, subject to compliance with the biological method as provided for in European and national standards. Of course there is the discrasia of representation at the tables. But, when any method that is used to produce food respects the regulations of the national organic, it loses its first characteristic (which could be biodynamic or any other form) and becomes for all purposes organic, both for the European regulation and for the national regulation. That is why I say that, respecting all the exceptions raised by Senator Cattaneo, these questions have already been resolved with the addition that the Senate Committee on Agriculture has made to the text that came to us from the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u64	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on the amendments. I begin by saying that the Brothers of Italy from the beginning, in the discussions we had at the various stages of the Committee on Agriculture, has always tried to bring its contribution to try to improve this important measure compared to the text that came out of the Chamber. We certainly did a good job. Specifically, we of Brothers of Italy had already raised the question of the equivalence between biological and biodynamic. In fact, we had tabled Amendment 1.10, which called for the deletion of paragraph 3, which equates organic farming with biodynamic agriculture. Now, I do not go into the substance of the various practices and principles; our reasoning is purely legislative and technical. In fact, it was generally stated here that compliance with the provisions of the EU regulation on organic farming was to be respected, without defining the method of biodynamic farming, limiting itself to merely providing for the use of biodynamic and specific disciplinary preparations. Therefore, in the absence of specific normative indications in Article 1 of the draft law it was proposed, with our amendment, the deletion of the paragraph, because biodynamic agriculture is the result only of private self-regulation and does not comply with European or national regulations. In essence, organic farming is regulated by European Regulations Nos 834 of 2007 and 848 of 2018, while there are no legislative provisions with which to make an equalisation. For these reasons, in line with what we supported in the Commission, I am now voting in favour of Amendments Nos 1,200, 5,200 and 8,200 on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u67	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking here because I have tried in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production to correct this aspect. Organic farming is a serious matter, as it aims to reduce pesticides and give healthy food to end-users. Biodynamic agriculture, on the other hand, concerns the sphere of spiritual processes, which must not be regulated by national law. What surprises me is the stubbornness with which biodynamic agriculture has been introduced in the draft law under consideration. My suspicion is that having so many regulatory bodies, including biodynamics, can be of use to many professional associations. There is no reason to introduce the term biodynamic into a bill on organic farming. With the utmost respect for all the spiritual disciplines that characterize the agricultural world (there are not only biodynamics, but many other disciplines also of our tradition and we remember that once the vegetables were blessed in the church), they must not be inserted within the laws. Biodynamics have a origin that is not proper to Mediterranean culture and I do not understand why the Italian Senate should give it so much space. We then present a bill on spiritual disciplines in agriculture and let science study how to reduce pesticides in organic farming. Although I disagree with many of Senator Cattaneo's views, I have tabled similar amendments which have been rejected and therefore I am voting in favour of the amendment tabled by my colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u68	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200 tabled by Senator Cattaneo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Ferrazzi pointed out that he had not been able to vote and that his vote was intended to be against. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u69	Mr President, my amendment 5,100 aims to restore the number of representatives of the agricultural professional organisations, which today are five in the committee, while the paragraph we are going to amend provides for four. As designed, if we approve the text in this way, the measure will entrust in the hands of a single subject the real management of the entire biological sector. That is why I tabled two amendments in the Commission to make the measure more democratic. The amendments, which were accepted by the Committee on Budgets, then fell to the Committee on Agriculture, in view of the contrary opinion of the Government and the rapporteur. The importance of this sector in the coming years and the massive mass of funding that will be allocated to the sector makes us believe that the audience to be involved should be as wide as possible and that the involvement of the largest number of structures in the sector for years should be achieved. We must therefore aim to make the economic management of this sector more democratic, which today is of strategic importance for future choices at Community level as well. According to the vision in the text, it is not conceivable that the audience to be involved in the technical table at the Ministry should be reduced compared to what is already foreseen in the shared table.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u70	Mr President, Amendment 5,200, as I said earlier, aims to remove from Article 5 the specific reference to the presence in the technical table of a bearer of interest of the so-called biodynamic method. I do this for two reasons. As a matter of fact, all methods equivalent to organic farming, as compared to it, as in Article 1 (3), already find their representatives in the members who participate in the table on behalf of the associations most representative of organic production. Secondly, to explicitly mention the presence of a representative of the biodynamic method means to give preference to those interested in this esoteric agriculture over those of other methods comparable to organic. The prediction of an exclusive representation dedicated to only one of the possible sub-categories of organic cultivation, that is, biodynamics, really creates discrimination against other methods. Discrimination, moreover, made by law, therefore destined to last in time, which, in order to be overcome, would need another legislative intervention aimed at eliminating the disparity or to reserve further cracks to the new sub-categories of the organic. I therefore ask how it is possible that this is the kind of representation of the interests of the sector that you really believe should be present at the technical table established by this article. For these reasons, I would ask you to consider voting in favour of Amendment 5,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u71	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u72	I am against both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u73	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u74	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,100, tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u77	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group is against this as is the next amendment by Senator Cattaneo. Certainly there will be dissenting interventions, but we reiterate how much we want to make biodynamics pass only and exclusively as something particular. To me it seems that instead there is an esoteric attitude against biodynamics: those who want to do something within their company can do it regardless of and can do so even if we have to remove the term "biodynamic" from this provision. At this point, we should also ask why, at the end of the threshing operations, when you collect the wheat, you have the feasts to thank the Lord. We therefore reiterate our vote against the amendments before us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, even if parties aren't done by law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u79	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u80	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, this amendment is part of an article which, in my opinion, concerns a particularly important issue, also in this third phase of the parliamentary term: that of ecological transition. We have a super ministry that is committed to working on the ecological transition, i.e. to modernising methods and to a scientific vision and assessment of the basis of decisions taken. Not by chance, in the technical table that is established with this article, there are also representatives of high cultural profile. I am thinking, for example, of those of the Agricultural Research Council and the analysis of the agricultural economy (Crea), of the representatives of the CNR, of people who think and reflect on agriculture in terms of updating. Now we think of contemplating certain methodologies at the same table and with the same meaning. I do not want to call them wizards, even if the description that my colleague Cattaneo gave is very juicy, if you want, to make irony about what it was, but that still belongs to a cultural past, when the methodologies were purely improvised, when you were able to face a problem without having the solution, but without even having understood the exact nature, so anything could have been done, because anything perhaps could have intercepted or the consent of the Gods or that of the stars. It seems to me that mixing, in a table that really wants to look at the modernisation of processes, people who are bearers of category interests, but also of micro-category, but above all of a culture that we are somehow trying to overcome in order to go beyond precisely with the ecological transition, seems frankly a bit ridiculous. I will therefore vote in favour of Mr Cattaneo's amendment 5,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u82	I cannot say whether he disagrees with the Group because the position of the Mixed Group is somewhat varied. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u83	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, I will decide if I disagree. There is no boss who says what the Mixed Group should vote for, because it is a mixed group, otherwise it would be called Senator De Petris' Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. My colleague, I would ask you to respect the Parent Company of the Mixed Group. FACTORS (Mixed). Of course, however, since I am speaking, I would like to be the one to declare it as a vote and I do not allow anyone to do it in my place, if you will excuse me, Mr President. I come from an agricultural area; agriculture is hard work, agriculture is what it is, and here we are trying to incorporate exoteric or lobbying into the bill, because this is what we are talking about, as Senator De Bonis has rightly said. The money from the recovery plan is coming and there is a need to categorize where the agricultural funds will go. There are so many ways of doing agriculture; Italian farmers do it in so many ways trying to reduce pesticides; some look at the moon, my father-in-law looked at the moon phases, I myself engage in agriculture and make practices that are also propitiatory. However, putting them in a bill is really inappropriate and it is done because this is a lobbying bill, where the extreme right connects esoterically with the radical chic of esotericism and agricultural spirituality, in which no one knows what it means to live on agriculture. I know that because I come from a family that has lived in agriculture and I cannot tolerate this strangeness being done in the draft laws that must support agriculture in a very difficult period and must do so respecting the environment, minimizing the use of pesticides, but not giving in to the lobbying of all kinds that this House likes so much. I will therefore vote in favour of Senator Cattaneo's amendment 5,200, with which I generally share almost nothing, but this time I do so, just as I voted in favour of Senator De Bonis' amendment 5,100, which has well explained how the stakeholders who are going to deal with an innovative sector that should be open to all and not just to four players.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u84	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,200, tabled by Senator Cattaneo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask you to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u85	Mr President, this amendment to Article 8, which deals with the National Plan for Biological Seeds, aims to eliminate the word "biodynamics" at the end of the first paragraph and the reason is clear: it is a specific unnecessary one, being in itself clear that if biodynamics are assimilated to organics, being a kind of subcategory with esoteric and witchcraft additions, it will still benefit from the discipline of this article dedicated to the National Plan for Biological Seeds. Once again, express recognition is a marketing operation of the biodynamic brand and its activities inserted in a legislative context to which I trust this Assembly does not want to lend itself. I would therefore ask you to welcome this amendment and since this is the last amendment of the three that I have tabled, all aimed at the same purpose, I would like to add a few thoughts. The aim of the three amendments is to save this House the responsibility to pollute the Italian order with something that has nothing to do with the evidence, reality and science, among other things in a very important sector; to avoid this House to make the same mistake committed in the conversion of the decree of experimentation on Stamina and that is to open to a form of legitimization of esoteric and sorcereresque activities that Lucerne on the ignorance of consumers. Take into account, then, that these organizations will be able to strengthen the Official Journal tomorrow to claim their solidity. So from tomorrow this measure will feed confusion in the citizens, because to the question whether it is sure that biodynamics is a useful, improving practice of products, someone will be able to answer that it is certainly, because it is recognized also by the law. It is precisely the confusion that was created with Stamina and all of you - because some of you were there - know the fatigue and pain that it cost to expose Stamina, to make her recognize for what to those who had a minimum knowledge of the matter was evident that it was: a scam based on popular credulity, fed by the media, endorsed by some courts of the country, to which Parliament had replied supinously, compounding what instead had to be stopped. In fact, I would remind you that it was this House, in April 2013, that embraced Statamine almost unanimously, which was misled by the debate in this House and it was this House that then corrected. It cost months and a cognitive survey wanted by my colleague, Senator Emilia De Biasi, who, after the survey had been completed, told the press conference, in no uncertain terms, that Parliament had made a mistake. I'd hope you don't want to be so wrong yet. In the Stamina affair the House, thanks to the activism of some, limiting the damage potentially capable of blowing up the National Health Service, corrected the approved by the Senate. I trust that the virtuous dynamics of bicameralism will be repeated for this bill as well. I will conclude by putting to you here, publicly, the question that dozens of eminent scholars and entrepreneurs who are opposed to this law have put in a letter sent yesterday to all the senators. It is an essential question for us to decide on the issues we are debating, which will guide us in the vote on the latter amendment. The question is whether Galileo Galilei's country can economically support, with public money, magical practices, which are also the responsibility of a foreign registered trademark. Personally, between Galileo Galilei and the new alchemists, I have very clear who and what to support in the interests of citizens: the scientific method. I hope that in these weeks, in which thanks to vaccinations the country begins to review the light after more than a year of darkness, the answer can be clear and unambiguous for each of you. (at 12 o'clock)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u86	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u87	Mr President, I am against Amendment 8,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u88	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u89	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u92	FACTORS (Mixed). Mr President, I rise to announce the vote in favour of amendment 8,200. I remember, in particular at this corner of the hemicycle that loves vegans and animals free, that apart from biodynamic agriculture, there are many agricultures. There is synergic that is scientifically proven and does not use pesticides because it uses a combination of plants that self-esteem each other. Permaculture exists. There are experiments on our territory that are beautiful, do not use pesticides and are not mentioned in the law at our examination. I remind those who proclaim themselves vegan, vegetarian and no animal that this is the only form of agriculture that provides that to fertilize the earth it is necessary to kill a virgin cow. That's what I'd like to remember. Then whoever eats biodynamic vegan knows that he still killed a cow, just to expose the hypocrisy of those who see in this esoteric stuff the solution for the evils of the world. They are not, there are much more scientific practices, much more legitimate and much more important - which were to be mentioned in the law and which I have tried to propose - which are the prerogative of young people, of young people, without a registered trademark, unlike this one which is a German brand and which has not been taken into consideration. I shall vote in favour of amendment 8,200 because the House is making a mistake again, as in the Stamina era; false vouchers have never brought anything good and that is not good for our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u95	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I will vote in favour of Amendment 8,200, tabled by Senator Cattaneo, because it seems to me that equalizing organic farming, behind which there is research, innovation, training and technology, to biodynamic agriculture, really means demeaning the importance of organic farming and the possibilities of development in our country. I have examined the views expressed by the various Commissions. On this subject, the opinion of the 1st, 2nd, 5th, 14th and Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs was requested, but the opinion of the 12th Committee on Regional Affairs was not requested. Commission: I am very concerned about that. I therefore propose that the text be referred back to the Commission, that the necessary hearings be held with the scientific associations and committees, and then that the bill be brought back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u98	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, I rise to reiterate Brothers of Italy's vote in favour of the deletion of the word biodynamic from the provision to our examination. Some people define this framework law as a niche, which deals with 15 percent of the land cultivated in Italy. I would remind everyone that there is another percentage, that of traditional land or industrial land, on which we will be able to work with innovation, technology and technology available in this millennium in order to be able to increase profitability and productivity, especially of our land. How do we do that? We must do this with the concept of sustainability that Europe is imposing on us today, but that farmers - I repeat - have been self-imposed for years now. Italy is the sixth most sustainable country in agriculture in the world. The farmers did not wake up today because the farm-fork strategy imposes certain percentages on us. Italian farmers, despite a blind state and this often deaf House, are ahead of the light years of Europe's deliberations. So, let's not say we support them, because it seems obvious to me the disinterest with which we deal with issues such as those under consideration, but at least not to hinder them, making this addition to a legitimate norm, such as the one that deals with biological, in some sectors and in some areas, such as the mountain area from which I come. The area of Belluno has very strong implications for the biological: I think of milk, which in the northern part is 100% organic. I repeat that it is a niche practice, an important practice. It is not all agriculture, but it is one of the many agricultures that make this nation great, but that have nothing to do with practices and rites like that of the horns of the cows or the blisters of the deer, which instead biodynamic agriculture unfortunately introduces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u99	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,200, tabled by Senator Cattaneo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u102	THE PIETRA (FdI). Since we had not heard correctly in the confusion, we have just voted on Amendment 8,200, signed by Senator Cattaneo. Right? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right. THE PIETRA (FdI). As a group we had made an explanation of vote in favour of amendment 8,200, but then we were wrong and we had one abstention vote. We would like to correct, for the Brothers of Italy Group, our indication of vote, which is therefore in favour and not abstention. Otherwise, on behalf of the Group, on Rule 8, I shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Unfortunately, Mr President, in the confusion of the House, you feel really bad and so we have made this mistake. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. That's why sometimes I try not to go very fast, to give everyone the chance to understand. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u103	Mr President, before I present Amendment No 9,200, I would just like to say a few things. The first, for clarity and transparency, is when we talk about biodynamics we talk not about a trademark registered abroad, but about a brand that is certified by four companies, one of which is foreign, Demeter Associazione Italia, while the other three are companies officially authorized to do so in Italy and make certification. The second question is as follows. Many have raised the question of why organic farming is present in the various tables. To date, the only form of agriculture formally and legally comparable to organic farming is biodynamic farming. When we have other crops, we will assess the implications on tables and Commissions. Amendment 9,200 simply involves the Ministry of University and Research on certain aspects of decision-making and operation. Therefore, it is an almost technical amendment which, in addition to the Ministry of Agriculture, also involves that of university and research.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u104	I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u105	Mr President, the opinion on the amendment is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u106	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9,200, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 9 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Article 14, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the presenter to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u107	Mr President, the amendment aims at the recognition of several professional organisations, where in fact one organisation is recognised in the text of the measure, and we all know what it is. I therefore strongly urge the House to vote in favour of economic democracy and participation. The provisions of Article 14 are an inconceivable way of concentrating the whole business in the hands of a single subject, creating a real power group to which the entire sector would be delivered in the coming years. The concern, almost certain, is that we can achieve a monopoly policy, considering the percentages of 30 percent required; percentages that seem to favour only one group at the expense of that universe, that is, of the 70 percent remaining, that would remain outside, but heavily conditioned by the only subject recognizable by law by the Ministry, that everyone knows. As written, Article 14 would also affect the biodistricts we have approved in Article 13. I therefore strongly urge the House to recognise the value and function of democracy in our country and to approve this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u108	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u109	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u110	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u111	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14,100, tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I propose that the House proceed quickly with the work until 1 p.m. Not making any comments, so it remains established. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 18, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u112	Mr President, Amendment 18,200 (text 2) is merely an adaptation to a Community regulation which was not at its origin.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u113	I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u114	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u115	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 18,200 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since amendment 18,200 (text 2) has been adopted, Article 18 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u118	TARICCO, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to ask for procedural clarification on Amendment 18,200 (text 2). We have only replaced paragraph 1, and not Article 18, which I therefore believe should be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u119	Our checks show the opposite, since the article consists of only one paragraph, so the amendment replaces it entirely. Anyway, it's always better to check it out. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u122	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Lorenzo grows apples without the use of pesticides and, through a circular economy project, recovers from the waste a paste that can be used both in pastry and in cosmetics for beauty creams. Elizabeth instead, after graduating in food technologies, produces jams and organic juices with the fruit that she herself cultivates, through a sustainable method without anti-critogamics. These are just some of the stories of many young producers who in a pioneering way have decided to choose a type of cultivation with less impact on the environment and health. With the bill that we are about to vote on, we give some certainty and a legislative framework of reference to the many farmers who, like Elizabeth and Lorenzo, have had the courage and the initiative to devote themselves organically to agricultural production, agri-food or aquaculture. With the draft law under consideration, written with several hands by my colleague Maria Chiara Gadda with some professional associations and with the agri-food chain, Parliament offers a useful tool to a sector that finds itself central in a phase of particular attention to the environment and ecology. Organic production is an important and competitive sector, which has also been more able, compared to other sectors, to resist the crisis of these years; it is a sector that still has great potential and that has been waiting for years for a complete regulation. In the text organic production is recognized as activity of national interest, with a social and environmental function. Organic production is defined as a comprehensive system of farm management and food production based on the interaction between best environmental practices and climate action and the preservation of natural resources. Thanks to the application of strict production standards, it contributes to product quality and food safety, animal welfare, rural development, environmental and ecosystem protection, as well as to the preservation of biodiversity and the achievement of greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. I do not think it is useful to trigger ideological battles between organic and conventional productions, because today the goal is to reduce the impact of chemistry on the soil. Organic farming is also a regulated sector at EU level, and for Italy it is an important sector in terms of GDP, employment and exports. The bill, together with the Strategic Plan and an appropriate system of controls, serves to make a sector more structured that can grow further because, among other things, it also intercepts the needs of the citizens for purchase and consumption. The Italian organic also has a success story and the numbers also say it in terms of turnover. Italy is one of the main European producers of this type of cultivation. According to the latest estimates, there are over 76,000 companies in the organic sector in our country; they grow around two million hectares, with a turnover of about 3.5 billion euros per year. Therefore, bio is no longer a niche sector, but it is increasingly the result of business choices that represent a significant share of Made in Italy. This measure also establishes an Italian organic brand that enhances the agricultural crops of our country, making recognizable to consumers the origin of the agricultural raw material. Regulation is also provided to the biological districts, which can be a useful tool in terms of the policies of the territory, so that there are not only individual farmers, but also districts that can be built with the task of adopting policies for the protection of organic production, the protection of the environment and the conservation of agricultural land. This regulation will have a positive impact on the territories by creating virtuous cycles that can also involve the food and wine sector. Organic farms in Italy are mainly located in hilly and mountain areas, especially in Sicily, Calabria, Puglia. Recent data analysis shows that organic farming often goes hand in hand with a return of young people to youth entrepreneurship in those areas; which can be strategic at a time when focusing on young people can help us recover from a pandemic emergency that has brought many activities to our knees, just and especially in neighbouring areas such as those. Meanwhile, the consumption of organic products, from a few years to this part, is experiencing a constant growth, which takes more and more foot also in the large distribution with excellent results. Many consumers increasingly pay attention to the quality of their food, favouring the purchase of products that are less chemically treated and therefore healthier. This trend has increased, among other things, even during the Covid-19 pandemic. Behind every single fruit we eat, behind every vegetable and every dish, there is a world, a chain of passages, people and companies. I believe that this is a great challenge for our agriculture as a whole and, within it, for organic farming. The awareness of an increasing number of end consumers that they want to feed on quality products, healthy and sustainable, is a great added value for product quality and for the protection of land and the environment. This awareness and the consequent demand can prove to be an extraordinary flywheel of economic support precisely for agricultural lands with greater difficulties. I believe that this is a good page of the legislative activity towards the many farmers who, like Elizabeth and Lorenzo, choose the path of organic farming with courage and dedication and also towards those consumers who decide to pay more attention to what they consume. To these people and to those entrepreneurs we have the duty today to approve the decree-law under consideration. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Taricco, and my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production who, with constructive work, have added elements of further transparency to the measure and I strongly support our Group's vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u125	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, we have finally come to the House to vote on this draft law. I have used the term "finally" for some reasons: the first of them is linked to a somewhat confusing process, resulting from the fact that the text, approved by the House of Members, and entrusted to the Agriculture and Food Production Commission, responsible for this matter, had to be first discussed, amended and then approved, first in the drafting session, then in the deliberating session and finally, by technical procedures, practically to finished work, was sent back to the Commission, in the contact person, to finally come to the Assembly for the final vote. Nothing wrong, I think that the draft law under consideration, because of the importance of the subject, had and has the right and the dignity to be discussed and approved in this House. The second reason that led me to use the term "finally" is linked to a more general theme: at last we are again discussing a measure of parliamentary initiative. At last - I repeat - we are giving the right meaning back to the role of Parliament: after months of government decrees, we return, at least today, to discussing a bill of parliamentary initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am saying is not a banality, but it is simply what all the parliamentary groups have said, certainly at times and in roles other than the present, complaining that Parliament has been snatched by its prerogatives, becoming only a passcard of the government in turn. In the same way everyone has said - and everyone has complained about it - that in fact the perfect bicameralism has been abolished, reducing the work of one of the two rooms to mere activities of ratification of what was done on the other. Everyone has said that, but Brothers of Italy is the only party that has always said it and that can say it even today with the same consistency as yesterday. [[Applause]] Mr President, once again, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour, as we did at first reading in the House of Deputies, but with some comments. The organic sector of our country has seen exponential growth in recent years, as confirmed by the data released by the Ministry of Food and Forestry Agricultural Policies. In fact, from 2010 to today, there are over 800,000 hectares that in Italy have been converted to organic, with a percentage growth, in recent years, of over 70 percent. It is, however, a fact that, on its own, makes the idea of how the market is moving, which must lead us all to a careful analysis and to the adoption of appropriate measures, in order to keep up with the impetus given to this sector. Organic farming in Italy is cultivated on an important number of hectares by more than 75,000 companies. Italy confirms that it is therefore one of the main countries in Europe for this type of cultivation. Also the data on the consumption of organic in Italy indicate important indices of growth, with a generalized increase for all the biological references sold both in the large distribution, and in the specialized shops. Italy is also at the top of Europe for the export of products of organic origin and - according to research conducted by ISPRA - turnover across borders is over one billion euros, an amount that represents more than one third of the total turnover of the Italian organic. Precisely for these reasons, I believe, and all of us in the Brothers of Italy, that the measure we are considering today is extremely important, also on the basis of the numbers I have just listed, in that it has the function of regulating a sector in strong expansion, such as that of organic farming. The aim of the measure is - as is also stated in the text - to promote and promote initiatives aimed at increasing agricultural areas carried out using the organic method, including through actions aimed at encouraging the establishment of bodies, points and platforms for the aggregation of organic supply chains and products, perfectly in line with the European objectives for the implementation of the PNRR. I would like to mention briefly what are for us the most important provisions of this act. We believe that it is important to set up a technical table for organic production at the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, which will have the task of outlining the priorities of the National Action Plan, with particular attention to research. It is therefore important to have also planned a National Action Plan for organic production; as we believe it is important to mention the measures provided for in Article 6 of the text, which we of Brothers of Italy marry in full, that is the fact that the Italian organic brand that characterizes our products is established. As we consider important the constitution of districts for the valorization of zones spoken to the biological. In particular, we believe that this passage can help mountain areas and peripheral areas, in themselves aimed at cultivation practices or natural breeding already by biological vocation (if we can define it), but thanks to the low industrialization and low pollution present in those areas. For us, everything that can enhance and help mountain areas is positive. The measures I have just listed are only a few in all the speeches of the whole measure, but they are an example of how the text we are debating here today goes in the right direction. Work in the Commission has profoundly changed the text approved by the House, but we are convinced that better action could and should be taken. It is precisely with this objective - for example - that we have taken action in the Commission to ensure that organic farming is not equated with biodynamic farming. Too bad for the rejection of our amendment calling for the abolition of paragraph 3 of Article 1, because in it we want to equate organic farming with biodynamic agriculture, indicating only generically compliance with the provisions of the EU regulation on organic farming, without defining the method of biodynamic agriculture, which - as we know - is the result only of private self-regulation and does not comply with regulations neither European nor national. Consistently, we voted on Senator Cattaneo's amendments, which were in the same direction, and consequently abstained on Articles 1, 5 and 8. We have, however, made our contribution. In the debate in the Commission we proposed our amendment to help farmers who suffer losses due to the decertification of organic products as a result of contamination during the supply chain. As we know, Italian agricultural products cannot be sold as organic if they have contamination of products not allowed in the production system. Unfortunately, this contamination can also occur during the marketing stages that bring the product to the sales counters and, therefore, we had to foresee some form of refreshment. We have withdrawn the amendment and tabled a joint agenda which commits the Government to taking measures to compensate for any loss of producers. Having said all this - and I shall start with the conclusions - I believe that we must also take a deep look at what the future of agriculture might be. In the coming decades, the world's population will reach 9 billion and the issue of food will be at the heart of the political debate. Without going to the world, however, we have a duty not only to focus on quality, but also to guarantee a minimum of food autonomy to our nation. We already have major difficulties in being self-sufficient in many agri-food sectors and the situation could be even more critical in the future. We cannot think that we can solve this problem by focusing only on the increase in organic production, not to mention that, at the social level, we are also in danger of creating discrimination between citizens who cannot afford to consume organic products because of their higher cost. These elements must lead us to find increasingly cutting-edge solutions for agriculture and to combine production, modernity and quality. [[Applause]] With these final considerations provided as a starting point for reflection for all of us, I repeat the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy Group on the draft law under consideration, because we believe it is appropriate to give - yes - regulation to the sector through this measure, but, despite the emphasis given to organic, we believe that this cannot be the only way for our agriculture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, without pretending to co-ordinate the speeches, however, I note that, if the Groups are willing to reduce speaking time, possibly by handing over the written text, we may be able to conclude the examination of the measure before proceeding with the sanitisation of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u129	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I will try to keep the time down, but I need to say a few things clearly, which is why I have gladly accepted my Group's invitation to make an explanation of vote on the draft law under consideration, which lays down provisions for the protection, development and competitiveness of organically produced agricultural, agri-food and aquaculture production. My well-known passion for the agricultural world has conditioned and pleasantly revolutionized a part of my life. This is an important measure which - I say this now - already confirms in its aim the full adherence to the system of rules that are the basis of the national organic production model. There is no misunderstanding. The plant is concrete and organic agriculture is given the status of agriculture not privileged, but complementary to what, no longer definable conventional, is now declined as integrated agriculture. The rule, on the other hand, enters fully into the wake of the European indication that organic farming is one of the pillars of the new CAP, so much so that on 25 March the European Commission presented an action plan for the development of organic production, with the aim of increasing production and consumption and reaching 25% of organically cultivated agricultural land by 2030, as well as significantly increasing organic aquaculture. Basically, the rule we are debating today helps to improve a method of cultivation - the organic one - by means that aim to set up a different offer. It is not for me, nor for us to judge whether it will be better or worse, but it is an alternative to the traditional offer from agricultural production with integrated protocols. And we want to do this through the realization of an Italian brand of organic production, the constitution of districts and producer organizations and the continuous training that you look at real graduation courses; in short, an alternative that will tend to grow and professionalize new occupational figures. I have no difficulty in admitting, however, that perhaps the criticality of the bill, especially for those who want to read it only in one direction, is in the initial enunciation of the principle of equivalence of production methods based on prepared and specific disciplinary methods with the organic farming method, expressly defining among these that of biodynamic agriculture. This principle, however, cannot be extrinsic in any specific way, since the regime of organic production in Italy is rigidly anchored in regulations governing all aspects, from seed to production methods, up to labelling. To confirm this, the draft law never contains - or could be otherwise - specific elements of concrete application to such methods, except for a general reference to Article 8 on seed of varieties suitable also for biodynamic agriculture. The same objectives of the National Action Plan, referred to in Article 7 of the draft law, leave little room for elements other than those on which the reality of organic farming in Italy is based. Indeed, the specific objective of encouraging and supporting research and innovation in organic production, as specified in Article 11, confirms the direction of the standard towards an unequivocally scientific approach. The new EU Regulation No 848 of 2018 will enter into force in a few months' time and it is necessary to speed up the reform of the relevant national or application measures, from non-compliance with control systems, adaptation of aquaculture, wine and seed, notification systems, the surveillance database and mandatory registrations for the organic production control system. These implementing rules, with which the new law must be in tune, will strengthen even more the current agricultural plant based on scientifically validated, supervised and strictly controlled methods, as a guarantee of the national consumer, who is demonstrating - whether you like it or not - a growing confidence in the EU-marked organic product and tomorrow will cross the national brand to the best garrison of a productive identity, the Italian one, that everyone envies us. It would be a mistake to witness or, worse still, participate in the biological dispute versus integrated. I do not have the skills to evaluate the more than 140 publications on biodynamics submitted to refer to scientific journals to impact factor, but I certainly have the right-duty to parliamentarians to measure myself with the different ideological positions on the agricultural model and the country's development guidelines. The approach, however, must never contrast production models or compete with plant health regulations. On the other hand, while respecting also the risk of a company that remains in the hands of the entrepreneur, it allows freedom of choice to the producer, who independently decides what and how to produce, but also the consumer to choose. We know well now - I repeat - that there is always greater attention in the choice of food purchases. Once you looked quickly at only the expiration date; today, however, the consumer is much more attentive: he seeks the nutritional values, the origin and every element that frames a healthier and more conscious food choice, which is his. All this happens in the wake of an increasingly sought after environmental sustainability, keeping in mind the risks of soil erosion, the impoverishment of the same due to the constant loss of organic substance and the hydrogeological risk. President, I have also read the recent press articles and I have listened carefully - as I always do - to Senator Cattaneo's speech, which I respect. That is precisely why I want to give a dry answer here. In our case, esotericism has nothing to do with it, and science is in no way called into question. I say this because I sincerely saw too much reference to the role of science in the management of the pandemic and the almost ideological opposition to this bill. Forgive me the parallel I go to say that I am so much on the side of science that we have all supported and then rejoiced at the speed with which we arrived at the vaccine for Covid, and with the same commitment I personally continue to support science in every field, even when the solutions - alas - are not as quick and timely as we would all imagine. I think of my land, Salento, Puglia, where we still cry millions and millions of dead olive trees because of a quarantine bacteria. Here, unfortunately, science has not yet come to a solution, but, nevertheless, we have never stopped trusting research and researchers, science and institutions, and we have never believed the saints as a Democratic Party. Our strength will be to be able to stay together to face the challenges ahead, keeping in mind the values and objectives of the European Union: solidarity and responsibility, promoting the well-being of citizens, sustainable development and protecting the environment. It is for these reasons that I strongly announce the vote of my Democratic Party Group on the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u132	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the Commission for their excellent work on a very important measure for Italy and for Italian agriculture. Colleagues, we have approved the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we have undertaken - and I think the path will be faster and faster, of course with the right measures - the ecological transition, which has become a reference point for the recovery of the country. We understand once and for all - I hope - that we are faced with the absolute necessity, in order to cope with emergencies and climate change, to adapt, therefore transform and accompany in the transformation of the productive sectors. In this, agriculture is a crucial area. Agriculture can bring huge benefits on the road to combating climate change, to the green transition, or it can deliver negative results if we do not do a major accompanying and transformation operation. You know better than I that agriculture, not only transport or other polluting activities, also contributes to emissions; therefore, it is essential to understand - in this sense, political decision-makers have a crucial role - that measures must be put in place that accompany, support and encourage this transformation. Agriculture is also a central element for our country, colleagues; it has been from an economic point of view; but the whole agri-food sector is a cornerstone of our country's identity. It is therefore necessary to have clear ideas and to put in place the right instruments, initiatives and incentives. The measure under consideration goes in this direction. Colleagues, organic farming has already played an important role in recent years, and I would also like to make it clear that organic farming is not, as some people still insist on thinking, an issue that we could define as children of flowers. In all these years it has achieved very important results because it has been based on continuous and constant research and has produced excellent results from the environmental point of view, from the economic point of view, from the point of view of the satisfaction of the consumers and therefore of their willingness to buy them. We have the record in Europe from this point of view, we must never forget that. We are the first producing country and also for cultivated areas. Therefore, overall intervention has long been expected to make this sector even more progressable and to be a spearhead of all agricultural production. The growth of organic production in our country has also pushed forward the rest of conventional agriculture, not only because of the rules, but precisely because of the satisfaction of the results of organic farming and this is good from the environmental point of view and the health of the citizens, because it has pushed it to achieve much wider sustainability objectives. That is why this measure is absolutely crucial. Moreover, the rapporteur has done well to recall the circumstance that the biological method, in some regions, in some parts of our country, which are not at all few, is the only possibility of having a productive agriculture and therefore of development. This we must not forget, with all that it entails, as the valorization of the identity of the territory itself. I also say that this is a very important step forward in the direction indicated by the European Union. We must remember that after President von der Leyen's communication on green new deal, the farm-to-fork strategy, the biodiversity strategy, has arrived, so with the measure under consideration we are following those indications. Therefore, all the articles and parts of the measure go in this direction. Certainly the objectives we must achieve are ambitious and aim to triple organic areas in 2030, to reduce the use of pesticides by 50% for all European agriculture. They are objectives in line with the green new deal and with the goals we have set ourselves for the 2030 agenda, also with regard to climate change; this issue has made it urgent for individual countries to take these decisions. Therefore, as we are the first in Europe in the organic sector, we must be the first to achieve these objectives. All this will even more help the agricultural world to make giant progress on the ground of sustainability, livestock farming and animal welfare. We can do a great job, absolutely important. There has been a great deal of discussion here, with absolutely inappropriate statements, because what the Commission has done in Article 1 is not only acceptable, but absolutely fair. Biodynamic agriculture has been represented as something in which witches, sorcerers, based on esotericism, operate. It is simply said that within this sector, as in all of us, European and national regulations and regulations must be adhered to. Even then we are talking about an important sector, which exports a great deal to Europe, let us never forget it. I know that for a long time - excuse me if I ask the question again - someone has been in action, who has many interests, a defamatory campaign against the whole biological world. This measure instead aims to say that investing in this sector is fundamental and absolutely crucial for all agriculture and for our country. Once again, with the articles that I will now quote, an important operation is being carried out, for example, with regard to the issue of delegation for the rationalization of the control system, the fund and the strategic plan. This campaign was obviously aimed at cultivating other interests, but it is a campaign against the interest of our country and our agriculture. I have mentioned the crucial points, among them certainly the seeding plan, which can also collect research and peasant wisdom, which in all these years has continued to select seeds. I want to remember this because it is the heritage of our country, the result of centuries of elaboration by many farmers, and today the research allows us to develop a seed plan. I repeat, therefore, that this delegation is fundamental for all agriculture and it is crucial to maintain our primacy in Europe for organic farming. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u133	We have had the permission to continue, but I really ask you to contain the duration of your speeches and, if you think, to hand over the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u136	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, for the second time this week, the agricultural sector and the way in which it can develop more and more and become more competitive within the global market, will return to my great pleasure. What is organic? It is primarily a production method according to a model of rural development and environmental and health protection. The organic method is becoming increasingly central in the light of the new common agricultural policy, which places environmental protection and its sustainability at the heart of the process. It was recalled by my colleagues that in 2019 Italy was confirmed as the first European country for the number of farms engaged in organic farming, with over 80,000 operators involved, with two million hectares of cultivated area representing 16 percent of the utilized agricultural area. The net income of organic companies compared to conventional ones increases by 15%, with 31 percent more workers. The foresight of our farmers has been rewarded by record consumption, with revenues of three billion and this without taking into account the Horeca sector. The bio costs more to consumers because - it is clear - it costs more to the agricultural producer, moreover the regulation of the bio - let's remember - has very strict stakes within which all the other methodologies and productions, for example that of biodynamics, will have to move. However, a greater effort is needed, in fact it is also necessary to point out the increase in imports of organic products from non-EU countries, amounting to more than 13%. We should therefore try to reduce our dependence and support the production of certified Italian raw material, guaranteeing the consumer the quality of the product and thus aiming at achieving a fundamental objective of the farm-to-fork strategy: 25% of the organically cultivated area. The question of raw materials today in particular is the key point of the speech, affecting every economic-productive and consumer sector. We witness an immense increase in the cost of raw materials, transport, container, which ends up affecting the increase in general costs, creating serious difficulties. Work must therefore be done to reduce the impact of this on the system. In order to do so, for example, we must also allocate the necessary resources to our farmers, through the organic production development fund referred to in Article 9 of the draft law that we are discussing. With regard to public support and the agricultural sector this is now more vital than ever, given the period of extreme criticality that the same lives. Already before the Covid, which saw the reduction of labour, putting crops at risk, the sector had to face a series of events: natural disasters, the spread of bacterial pathogens, also the result of climate change, such as the annoying xylella, just to name one, which have caused considerable damage. All this has forced the operators, who have never interrupted their activity, also to contract new loans in order to guarantee the continuation of the productions. We therefore call on the Government, in addition to those already carried out - and I do so through our Undersecretary Battistoni, whom I thank for the commitment and sensitivity towards the sector shown constantly - in order to ensure, for example, real help to entrepreneurs for access to credit, for example by refinanceing the agricultural bill that has confirmed itself as a valid liquidity instrument for companies in the sector, especially in the face of the period of emergency lived. I also suggest that the procedures which, due to their complexity, discourage many people should be simplified, as an aid for access to the guarantees needed to obtain funding. Within the draft law n. 988 we find references and references that are the perfect synthesis of what is needed to the agricultural sector in general: strengthening chain, unique organic brand, promoting network contracts, biological districts, monitoring of the sector, traceability. I believe that the importance of each of these arguments is quite clear. In the Chamber of Deputies, the Forza Italia Group voted against the draft law, not because it is contrary to the biological method which, as I said earlier, is fundamental to the development of the supply chain, but because the measure was incomplete. There was no fundamental and indispensable part for Forza Italia, the issue of controls, which was not addressed in any way and, in doing so, would have done a damage to the biological. Allow me to thank the rapporteur, Senator Taricco, and all the Members of the 9th Commission for their work in absolute harmony and respect, because it is precisely on the controls that an important role has been played in the Commission by the introduction of Article 19, which delegates to the Government the revision, harmonisation and rationalization of the rules on controls. In conclusion, investing in organic farming is a win-win approach, winning agricultural activities and economic activities, but we also win, seeing the adoption of best practices, less impacting from an environmental point of view, for a greater safeguard of natural resources. For our part, however, let us commit ourselves to protecting the sector, not forgetting that the farmer is also the guardian of the land, which produces healthy and quality products, which the whole world envies us. Let's do it by monitoring the work of companies to protect those who respect the rules, financing their activities. In the light of the introduction of the legislation on controls, as well as the improvement of the text, I announce the vote in favour of Forza Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u139	ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, representative of the Government, the measure we are considering today, which we are about to vote on, has the task of clarifying agricultural and agri-food production by organic method. I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production, my Venetian counterpart, Senator Gianpaolo Vallardi, together with my colleagues from the Commission for their work, which I have only followed on the final as a new member. A work done in a constructive climate, where everyone has tried to give their best to support our agriculture. Returning to the measure, Article 1 defines organic production as a comprehensive system of farm management and food production, based on the interaction between best practices in the field of environment, climate action and the protection of natural resources. A concrete example, which can make you understand better, I can take it from my Verona, reporting an article appeared in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica": The color symbol is that of the red Amarone, but in the 19 municipalities of the Doc Valpolicella the green is becoming wider, that of sustainability. This is what emerges - on the eve of Amarone Preview - from the Avepa surveys (the Venetian Agency for payments in agriculture), which recorded a sudden green revolution in the wine areas symbol of Verona. In a few years (from 2012 to the end of 2019) the organic in the vineyard has in fact grown by 152 percent in terms of area, with a surge only in the last year of about 14 percent compared to a national average firm in 2019 to more one percent. A bio trend that began perhaps a little late, but which now does not seem to slow down, considering that even the hectares in conversion have grown in the last year by 10.5 percent. But to pull the vineyards green Valpolicella is above all the RRR project (reduce, save, respect), the certification desired for the companies of the consortium to protect the environment, which provides for the adoption of innovative techniques in the vineyard, but also the social sustainability and the protection of the landscape. I remember that it is the first certification of this type in Italy. Also here the growth is in double digit: plus 31 percent the RRR hectares from the beginning of the certification, from 2017 to today. Overall, in an area of just under 8,300 hectares PDO, just under a quarter are green or are going to become it officially after the period in conversion. We can infer, with this example, how we can translate the articles of the measure that we are discussing. Environmental and climate action are fully taken care of. With regard to the protection of natural resources, an important work of territory, even with the aforementioned consortium of protection, takes place in collaboration with the help of the Verona reclamation consortium, in which I am honored to have been the representative of the mayors. A virtuous entity, in close contact with the entire agricultural chain, in order to preserve a precious asset, a natural resource: water. Let it be clear, however, that feeding and feeding on organic products is a choice. It is also organic production: it is a choice of principle, but also an economic opportunity, given the demand of consumers both in Italy and in the world. However, organic farming does not become the antithesis of agriculture by conventional methods. They are two realities that can and must coexist. [[Applause]] I remember that conventional agriculture, given the shortage of certain products, such as wheat, which we sometimes have to import, guarantees a necessary productivity for our country. I underline that organic is a choice, rather than an opportunity, as stated by the president of the Consortium for Valpolicella wines, Christian Marchesini: a strategic driver on the international markets, where the demand for sustainable organic wines continues to grow. Biological words, organic farming and the environment do not become a religion; they must be words linked to a cultural context. A culture that in some territories of our country, also of my Veneto, makes reach very high percentages of separate collection of waste; culture that leads more and more to greater respect for the environment. Returning to the text of the measure, Article 6 establishes the Italian organic brand to characterize the organic products obtained from Italian raw material, marked by the Italian organic label: a protection for farmers and producers and a guarantee for consumers, since it will certify organic products made from 100% Italian raw materials. Protection and defence, as well as promotion of the Mediterranean diet, made in Italy, in this case also the Italian organic brand: these are important issues for our country [[Applause]] Issues that must unite us, aware that our products are excellences that the whole world envys us; cultivated, worked and preserved in territorial contexts, from North to South, characterized by a myriad of different microclimate situations. And there is no product that is equal, moving into our wonderful territories; flavors, scents and tastes envied all over the world. Hence the reason why there are proposals, practices or laws that have fallen from the European context to weaken Italian agriculture and agri-food production, milestones of our economy. I really enjoyed the reaction and compactness in the face of the promotion of watered down wine, which someone wants to pass as a message. Extending wine with water is an incalculable economic damage to our agricultural economy. [[Applause]] It is an affront to the quality of our wines: so, unanimously, the members of the Senate Committee on Agriculture. These shields honor Italian politics. I would always like it to be so whenever there is an attempt to sabotage or monkey our Mediterranean diet and made in Italy. It is significant that today we are voting on the measure on organic farming, coinciding on the occasion of World Bee Day, a day set up to raise public awareness and institutions about the fundamental role of these insects in the balance of ecosystems, the protection of territories and food security. Important is the motion submitted by the League Group, which commits the Government to adopt interventions for the protection of Italian beekeeping. Therefore, under the auspices of World Bee Day, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of the organic farming measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u142	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, a reference law for organic farming has been invoked for some time. Today, at last, we arrived at the finish line, at least in this passage to the Senate, in which we inserted changes to the unified text approved in the Chamber in December 2018. Italy occupies important places, in Europe and in the world, by organic area and we are the first by number of operators involved in the sector. Numbers that result in an advantage over reaching 25% of the agricultural area envisaged by the European strategy, which is now about 8.5%. Given the increase in the area dedicated to organic products, the wide and growing diffusion of their products, together with the need to adapt to the European regulations of 2007 and 2018, this bill makes necessary, for an effective system of controls and for a better identification of the sector, actions aimed at encouraging the establishment of organisms, points and platforms of aggregation of the product and of biological supply chains. By now, maximum respect for the environment is universally required and organic production is attentive to this, in order to safeguard the climate, biodiversity, natural resources and ecosystem services in order to achieve the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. I would like to make it clear, in view of the controversy on various fronts, that only the production methods based on prepared and specific specifications applied in compliance with the provisions of the European Union regulations and national rules on organic farming are equivalent to the organic farming method. Hence also the biodynamics and the methods that, having made request according to the procedures established by MIPAAF with special decree, provide for compliance with the provisions that also order the biological. It is consumers who decide on their purchases, we condemn only what is harmful and we call good practices. Certainly vegans would not accept this practice, the biodynamic, since animal parts are used. But that's another story. Working the land with the biological method means using a cultivation technique and a way of producing food that respects natural life cycles. After years of use of synthetic chemicals, we find ourselves with very little organic substance in the soils and with a worrying presence of residues of plant protection drugs in the waters. Indispensable, therefore, are these strict production standards which contribute primarily to respect for the environment. Hence the focus on product quality and food safety, as well as animal welfare. They are also considered to be virtuous practices, allowing for the reduction of the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions, as laid down in Directive 98/70/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. Great challenges, therefore; in order to best address them, a technical table is foreseen at the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy as a reference point for the evolution of these practices and methods, which are constantly changing. The table is ready to draw up a three-year plan, which aims to expand organic production, convert small businesses, perhaps in disadvantaged and mountainous areas, offer professional assistance and training, and encourage research. All with resources from a fund already earmarked. Very important is the recognition of the biological districts, which go beyond the genuine cultivation and the idea of sustainability as a whole and direct all human activities towards a framework aimed at enhancing the beauty of the landscape in all its aspects and the conservation of protected natural sites. Central is the introduction of the Italian organic brand, which, in the wake of the excellence that characterizes our products, adds value also in terms of economy, for an increasingly demanding and attentive contemporary market. The consumer wants to eat well and ethically. It is also a value the Italianness underlined by the brand, for greater transparency on origin. [[Applause]] The whole world envies our cuisine and the raw materials that grow in our fields, more if they are characterized by guarantee and quality brands to protect the consumer. A brand for a clear message, that generates value and economy, that speaks of respect for nature and health, simplicity, return to authenticity and traditions, attention to ingredients and to every stage of processing. On this path the profitability of those who produce and who transform must be guaranteed. In this respect, there is the regulation of supply chain agreements and organic producer and seed organisations. With regard to the latter, farmers can produce varieties of organic seed and are entitled to local sales and free trade. The long work carried out in the Senate with colleagues from the Agriculture and Food Production Commission has led to the definition of Article 19, which delegates to the Government the revision of the legislation on controls for organic production, in order to increase transparency of procedures. Among these we have included the obligation of information on the origin, quality and traceability of organic products, including through the use of digital platforms. [[Applause]] We have also introduced the guarantee of third-party controls, better consumer protection and the review of the sanctioning system. In conclusion, given that, in fact, organic farming reduces productivity by up to 25% compared to conventional crops and that, on the other hand, it has been found that 30% of the food we produce is wasted, it is right that the sustainability, both environmental and economic, of the organic is valued, considering the great contribution that guarantees fertility and biodiversity of the soils. Fortunately, the populations are increasingly appreciating the organic product, so much so that over the last ten years consumption has more than doubled. Faced with all this, think of continuing to consume soil, whether agricultural or natural, for various cementifications, or of using land used for agriculture to overlay them with photovoltaic panels or, again, dedicating fields to crops destined for biomass for electricity production plants is pure folly. [[Applause]] If there really is a new awareness of the importance of agricultural soil and natural soil, as well as of a living and unpolluted environment as a whole, it is time to demonstrate this through policies aimed at these purposes. Organic farming is one of the concrete possibilities that we have. For this reason and for the reasons I have said in the preamble, I am convinced that the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u145	TARICCO, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to thank you for the way in which we have achieved this result. I think I can say thank you to all my colleagues. The fact that there were no votes against in the Commission is a sign of the cooperation that has taken place. I want to thank the Undersecretary Battistoni and his predecessor L'Abbate, with whom we collaborated very well. I would also like to thank my predecessor, Senator Mollame, who has done a great deal of work in the Commission. Thank you all so much. I think the result is something good for our country's agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u146	Senator Taricco, being a draft law of parliamentary initiative, I think it was more than appropriate also this thanks. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). The Conference of Leaders shall be convened immediately. Pending the determinations of the Conference, I suspend the work, which will resume at 2.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.21 a.m. and resumed at 14.31 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u147	I refer to the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, which established that at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday 25 May, the Assembly will deal with the following topics: draft law on the detachment of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region; follow-up to the examination of the reports of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity concerning Article 68 of the Constitution, not concluded yesterday; finally, ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs. The Conference of Leaders will meet again on Tuesday 25 May at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u150	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to know whether the Conference of Leaders has decided on the allocation of minutes for dissenting speeches, in agreement with President Casellati. I would like to know whether there has been a debate and a resolution on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u151	Senator Garnet, it has been discussed and the subject has been discussed, but there is not yet a decision defined in all its articulations and determinations. The work of the Conference of Leaders was very intense, because many were the issues to be dealt with. Of course, I will report to the President on his request for a certain outcome. I'll suspend the work again, which will resume at 3:00 p.m. for the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 14.34 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u152	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, the Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility and the Minister for Culture will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Unterberger has the right to explain the question 3-02527 on support for breeding practices that promote animal welfare, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u153	Mr President, Minister, at the moment there is much talk of animal respect, so much so that the inclusion of animal protection in the fundamental principles of the Constitution is being discussed in the first Commission. It is a fact of great importance if we think that animals are still today for our legal order of movable property and that the object of criminal protection is not the animal as such, but only the feeling that man has towards him. The initiative of countries such as France and Germany to put an end to two unacceptable practices from the point of view of animal protection is equally important. I am referring to the shredding of male chicks and the unnarcosis-free castration of piglets. The two countries have made a joint commitment to develop in 2020-2021 a framework of interventions to prohibit such practices and identify alternative routes, consistent with the provisions of the European Regulation on the slaughter of animals after stunning. In particular, for chicks, scientific knowledge is being shared for the preventive determination of the already egg sex. For pigs, the obligation to anesthesia during castration is considered, followed by the use of analgesics to reduce pain or, alternatively, immunocastration by vaccine. The Agriculture Ministers of the two countries also invited the European Commission to support this approach, as well as the States to take part in the initiative by associating themselves with the Franco-German partnership. It is asked whether the Minister does not consider it useful to join the initiative undertaken by France and Germany or what measures he intends to promote to put an end to these cruel practices which are still widespread in Italian farms.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u154	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u155	Mr President, I thank the interrogating senators. I believe that the expression 'animal welfare' should not only correspond to empty words, but there must be a concrete primary objective of each individual country. We therefore welcome all initiatives, including joint initiatives, with other ministries and ministers from other European countries to achieve practices that truly protect animal welfare in the livestock department. In our country there is a preeminent competence of the Ministry of Health. I will respond, as far as I am aware, by saying that animal welfare is the fundamental prerequisite for the ever more sustainable livestock production to which a number of factors have to be taken care of at the same time through an integrated approach such as animal health, the living spaces available, bio-safety, genetic improvement, emissions into the environment and proper management of veterinary medicines. The issue of animal welfare is so important that it will enter fully into the programming of the Common Agricultural Policy, the new CAP post 2020. In fact, despite the progress made in recent years, many critical elements still remain to be addressed decisively, both through appropriate sanctions - in the face of behaviours not in line with the most basic principles of well-being defined at international level - and through policies encouraging the production processes more respectful of animal ethology and animal welfare interest. In order to improve animal welfare conditions in a concrete and lasting way, it is necessary to define minimum standards significantly higher than the minimum requirements laid down by law, based on objective and measurable criteria, in order to direct the behaviour of the various operators who will have the possibility to obtain productions capable of distinguishing themselves on the market. It is precisely on the integration of health and zootechnical aspects that action is needed to assess, thus improving the sustainability of livestock production also in line with the objectives of the farm-to-fork strategy. With regard to the specific cases raised by the honourable Members, it should be noted that the Ministry supports any innovative methodology aimed at allowing the sessing of hatching eggs in order to target the reproductive cycle only those female subjects who are early identified. The methodology available today developed by a joint venture between the University of Leipzig and a German supermarket chain, as well as being very expensive, needs to be further tested before being applied on a large scale. On the other hand, as far as the practice of castration of piglets is concerned, they are in the process of defining productive disciplinary commitments, as communicated to us by the Ministry of Health, in order to finally overcome the problem raised by the honourable Members. The unitary system of animal welfare certification that we are working on will accelerate the transition phase of the production system. In any case, I assure you that the evolution of the experimentation will be followed with the utmost attention, also in order to define specific support tools to be made available to the production system. We are also considering the inclusion - in the various incentives for the livestock sector provided by the Ministry - of the rewards for companies that operate in compliance with animal welfare. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Unterberger may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u156	Minister, I appreciate your sensitivity to this issue but, as you yourself said, we need concrete measures. As you may know, there are currently nine proposals for animal protection under the scrutiny of the Commission, including one of my proposals, in which I have expressly provided for these practices to be prohibited. I hope the government can support this bill of mine.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u157	Senator Carbone has the right to explain the question 3-02529 on the criteria for allocating the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) for the years 2021 and 2022, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u158	Dear Minister, today, thanks to the question time, I have the opportunity to represent you a very delicate issue that concerns, yes, agriculture, but also the relaunch of the dialogue for the definition of a broader perspective of the country system. By its note of 23 March 2021 addressed to the State-Regions Conference, in order to acquire the understanding pursuant to Article 3, Legislative Decree No 281 of 28 August 1997, the proposal was made for the allocation of funds allocated to Italy in the field of rural development: the so-called EAFRD for the years 2021 and 2022, a transitional period determined by the shift of the 2021-2027 programming, which will be started from 2023 due to the Covid. In particular, it is proposed to change the EAFRD allocation criteria for the years 2021 and 2022, thus moving from historical criteria to objective criteria as they can allocate resources in a fair way, compared to the application of the resources allocated for de minimis. Minister, allow me to tell you that the proposal to remodel European rural development funds, which have already been allocated to the regions of the Mezzogiorno, with new criteria, is unacceptable both from a social and an economic point of view. If this remodulation were confirmed, we would be faced with a mortifying penalty for already disadvantaged regions which, paradoxically, would be deprived of the funds intended to ensure structural rebalancing, for the benefit of already better equipped areas. Agriculture is a strategic sector for the southern regions and businesses and the funds of rural development programmes (RDPs) should be supported. Minister, I would like to ask you whether you intend to find a solution shared with the regions of the South on the criteria for the allocation of European funds for agriculture and whether you do not consider it appropriate to set up a technical table at which the definition of the parameters to be applied from 2023 can be delegated within 60 days, seeking to apply consistent criteria to the spirit and purpose of the RDP. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u159	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member for giving me the opportunity to clarify certain aspects which are not exactly to the extent that they have also been raised in the question put by the honourable Member. The proposal we made in March was followed by a proposal of 21 April, which brought about a further remodulation in relation to the relationship between objective criteria, new criteria and historical criteria. Having said that, I would like to make some considerations of both method and merit, starting from 16 January 2014 when, after a heated discussion (seven years ago), the Regions had agreed to define the seven-year 2014-2020 as the last application of the so-called historical criteria, and then arrive in 2021 at the definition of new criteria. The debate was born at the end of last year and did not lead to a sharing by the Regions. There is a block of six Central-South Regions (because Umbria is certainly not from the South, there is no North-South division in this sense) that proposes historical criteria for the two years 2021-2022, while the other 13 Regions and two autonomous Provinces have identified in five so-called objective criteria the new parameters of distribution of EAFRD. The Permanent Conference for Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces decreed the non-intelligence twenty-nine days ago, so there will be a path in the Council of Ministers in which the node will have to be dissolved. The agreement wasn't there. The proposal made by the Ministry in March and then that proposed in the renewal in April intended to stimulate the search for an understanding between the various Regions, because obviously the Ministry must look to the interest of all the Regions of the national territory. On the merits I can say that absolutely wrong figures have been made compared to the incidence of the transition from the split between 90 percent of historical criteria and 10 percent of objective criteria for 2021 and 70 percent of historical criteria and 30 percent of objective ones for 2022, which overall has an impact on public expenditure of about 6 billion euros in the biennium, equal to 105 million for the whole of the Regions (to be exact 105,282,527 euros in the biennium). However, if we look only at the part not co-financed of EAFRD of 3,472 million euros, the total shift is 61,212,930 euros, of which 45,553,000 euros for the six regions involved. So we are talking about 45 million in six regions in total over a two-year period, out of a total fund amount of 3.5 billion. I therefore believe that the figures must also be given the right weight. Of course, it is clear that EAFRD is a very important instrument for Italian agriculture, in particular for the developing agricultural areas, which need agricultural development, but it is not the only instrument. We must work on the co-financing percentages, we must work hard on the first pillar with the internal convergence path; we must also give many other instruments to those regions to develop agriculture in rural areas and I believe that overall the instruments that we make available, also and especially of the regions of the South, will be sufficient to approach also the challenge of the new common agricultural policy (CAP), where, moreover, the shift of eco-schews on the part of the first pillar will allow to free resources, for example, on organic from the second pillar; I note that these resources are very important on a scale from 1 to 10 compared to those we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u160	I give the floor to Senator Carbone to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u161	Minister, I take note of your answer and I remain confident, being optimistic by nature. Allow me, however, to remain concerned, because the figures to which you referred and which have circulated were really worrying for the agriculture of the Southern regions, if it is true that applying these new criteria even to Sicily would have been reduced about 100 million euros, while to Campania, Apulia, Basilicata, Calabria and Umbria another 300-400 million euros. I realize that these are very worrying figures. Among other things, Minister, we are trying to get out of a crisis that is first of all health and then economic, but which has now become a social crisis to all intents and purposes. The figures for agriculture in the Mezzogiorno would have been suicide. I believe that agriculture is one of the engines for the rebirth of the South, so I ask you, Minister, and the Government that we all support an effort in this direction, not to reduce the funds for agriculture in Italy, but to increase them.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u162	Senator Collina has the right to explain the question 3-02512 on measures to promote compensation and insurance against atmospheric damage to agriculture, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u163	Minister, thank you for your presence. I summarize briefly the question I have put, which I think in the written text is widely documented and detailed. It is in fact that between the second half of March and the first half of April this year the entire national territory was hit hard by late frosts that caused considerable damage to agricultural production. This sentence could also refer to the year 2021 as in the year 2020. It is clear that there are climate changes that are making this damage recursive, which are not covered by the National Solidarity Fund referred to in Article 1 of Legislative Decree No 102 of 29 March 2004. Every year, therefore, as parliamentarians, we try to recover the resources to deal with these damage and to give refreshment to the farmers who have suffered them. I believe that this is not the right way to deal with the problem. We need to find a structural solution. We are here not only to recover resources in emergency cases, but to assess what measures we need to put in place so that in the face of events that can happen every year, there are the instruments that put remedies. I believe that the issue of insurance has something to do with this type of problem and that it must be considered in order to find structural forms to deal with it. It is clear that in agriculture we do not just think about the refreshment of damage, but there is a whole chain that needs the product to be worked, so active defense is an important fact and it is certainly a need that needs to be met, but the issue of insurance I think is central. Finally, I would like to mention one more aspect. It is essential to introduce safeguard clauses limiting the reduction of the VPC and the Community resources of the operational programmes in the years following those in which these events occurred: those who work the products and have made operational programmes, necessarily put in difficulty by the climatic events in the following years, risk not enjoying the facilities to which they had access. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u164	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u165	Mr President, I would also like to thank the interrogating senators because in the written text, but also in the presentation, they took the sign of the problem. I also believe that no producer wants to throw away the harvest and have a refund. We must therefore stimulate the capacity for ex ante protection, as compared to climate change, even if our ecological transition measures will have effect, we will have effects in many years' time. Unfortunately, I fear that the effects of climate change will still be in agriculture for a while. It is clear then that the insurance issue is central, in the sense that it is a bit of a dog that bites its tail, if we want to say so. Few companies make sure, the products of the companies are therefore more risky and less attractive, with higher prizes and made in insurance campaigns in the wrong periods of the year. The product is therefore not exceptional and the companies continue not to make sure. This includes the derogation from Legislative Decree No 102 of 29 March 2004, which in some way gives that guarantee of refreshment; perhaps we should find a way to interrupt this vicious circuit. We are working to increase the levy from 1% to 3% for risk management, as we have proposed at European level to all other Member States. We hope to achieve a result precisely to increase the endowment of the mutual fund so that we can guarantee the coverage of insurance costs in a more profitable way for the company, even if the limits of percentage today do not allow us to reach, as proposed by the interrogators, 80%, being at the maximum limit of 70%. With regard to the possibility of increasing the allocation of resources from the National Solidarity Fund, also using the CAP resources for the next programming period, I recall that the new EU funds for both CAP pillars will be managed in an integrated way through a single national strategic plan and this will also be an advantage. The objective is to seek greater coordination between the different types of interventions that contribute to the phase of risk prevention and mitigation, in order to minimise the probability of occurrence of events that may determine the need for subsequent interventions to restore to ex post compensation. As regards the need to strengthen and promote mutual funds capable of financially compensating farmers and farmers for losses, such as pollution, contamination, disease and quality of the environment linked to a specific event of limited geographical scope, I would point out that during the current programming period priority has been given to funds for climate and health risks only, excluding in the initial phase of activation the funds for environmental emergencies. In this respect, four mutual funds have already been officially recognised against phytopathologies, parasitic infestations and, at the same time, to facilitate the recognition phase, specific guidelines have been issued for possible proposers and mutual funds. Public notice for the payment of support under sub-measure 17.2 of the National Rural Development Programme is planned to be adopted by the year. Therefore, also in the new programming period, support for mutual funds has been confirmed. In addition, information work is also being done on farms, precisely to stimulate insurance. I conclude by saying that in the draft law that we passed a few minutes ago, funding is provided under Legislative Decree No 102 for 105 million euros, an objectively important amount, one of the largest amounts that have ever been framed in a single tranche. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Taricco may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u166	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and, above all, for informing us about the refinancing of the National Solidarity Fund. With the question we wanted to put the question in its entirety, precisely in the light of the consideration from which the Minister started; we cannot imagine an agriculture that every two or three years actually loses a harvest; especially in the reality where the rate of insured persons on the total of farmers is very low, this risks being devastating for agriculture. Among the many points we put in the question, I would like to take up one again: I think it is time to open a serious reflection (to do it through insurance instead of mutual funds) and to propose the subject of a certain percentage of compulsory insurance or mutual insurance coverage. It is not conceivable in fact that we have entire Regions that, in the presence of an ice cream, a late return of the cold or a strong hailing, in fact, as happens now even two or three times in a decade, completely lose a harvest. It's not sustainable this season. Therefore, rather than putting every two or three years 100 or 200 million on the National Solidarity Fund, where we were able to obtain the possibility of drawing more resources from the first pillar and putting them to cover a part of insurance or a general mutual fund, leaving then to those who want to add the difference, I think it would be worth opening a reflection in terms of amending Legislative Decree No 102 of 2004; in fact, I think that the future of our agriculture is at stake. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u167	Senator La Russa has the right to explain the question 3-02528 on the current criticalities of the Liguria motorway network, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u168	Mr President, three years have passed since the collapse of the Morandi bridge and, after the miracle carried out by the Liguria Region and the Genoese - I greet the mayor of Genoa who has had an accident these days and I wish him prompt and immediate recovery - to quickly rebuild that bridge, the highway and road situation, not only has not improved, but, if possible, has worsened. Finally, just to not go far in time, the viaduct of Valle Ragone on the A12 motorway between the tollgates of Lavagna and Sestri Levante, recently put into operation, was suddenly closed, creating an incredible disaster, with pull from all directions. The most serious thing is that on the whole the roads and highways are full of inversions of march, of single-way channels, with repeated accidents, of which as many as four mortals in recent months. That's incredible! This is because there is no real capacity to foreordain work, when necessary for security, according to the priorities and with the agreement of the municipalities. The situation is really dramatic because, to the inconveniences of the Covid, is being added this drama for tourism, a drama that has been there for several years. From Milan normally it takes an hour to get to Genoa; now the times have multiplied to a great extent. Arriving in Tigullio is like crossing the desert. What does the government intend to do to establish a real priority of the necessary things, an agreement with the municipalities to limit accidents, difficulties, inconveniences of citizens, tourist companies, tourists, Genoese and Ligurian? Liguria is the third world in terms of traffic right now. Repeatedly, with an act of inspection union of 7 July and with various demonstrations - the last in Chiavari a few days ago of our Council Group, with the councillors of the Municipality of Genoa, with Campanella in the head - we have asked answers, but we have not yet obtained an answer even to the first question of more than a year ago. We call for priority to be given to the road situation in Liguria and for the government to put its head in it and give answers, not just in words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u169	The Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Professor Giovannini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u170	Mr President, I thank the interrogating senators. This Government has already started, through the competent ministerial structures, a very careful monitoring of the state of bridges and viaducts, not only in Liguria, but also in other parts of the country, defining the lines of action and planning maintenance interventions. In particular, specific guidance has been given to road and motorway operators, aimed at raising infrastructure safety standards and increasing the quality and quantity of controls. At the same time, in order to strengthen safety controls, new initiatives, including legislative initiatives, are under way to define in a completed manner the activities and functions of the National Agency for the Safety of Railways and Road and Motorway Infrastructures (ANSFISA), in whose direction today, after the decision of the Council of Ministers, was entrusted by engineer Domenico De Bartolomeo. With regard to the inspections and operations of redevelopment and adaptation in progress along the motorway network of Liguria, which is certainly an important priority for us too in the discussion with the competent Commission, also in view of future commissioners, I point out that these are necessary activities for which the Ministry maintains constant interlocations with the concessionaire in order to identify, in agreement with the Region and the local authorities, the most suitable ways to guarantee the maximum reduction of inconveniences for the users. Precisely because of the situation of the viaduct Valle Ragone a place of coordination with the territorial authorities and the main associations of category has been created, in which periodically the programs of intervention and the measures of optimization of the traffic are shared. With specific regard to the above mentioned viaduct, I would point out that on 12 May, following an extraordinary verification carried out on the A12 motorway, the concessionaire made a prudential provision for the prohibition of movement in both directions of movement of vehicles exceeding 3,5 tonnes. This limitation was eliminated on 15 May following the remedial measures. So I would like to confirm that the Government is following this issue very carefully, particularly with regard to the Liguria Region. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator La Russa to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u171	Mr President, I find myself completely dissatisfied, because similar words were formally and informally assured last year when, throughout the tourist season, traffic on motorways, but even on the Aurelia road where there are small landslides that are not adjusted and proceed in a single direction alternated with some semaphores that are put to that end, has remained the same. Words don't convince us. We'd like the facts. We would like, for example, the government to say that, as a refreshment, the toll will not be paid for motorways that are not motorways but one-way roads, with entrances and exits from one side to the other, with pulls that dart a few centimeters from the cars, with accidents and continuous tampons. Words leave the time they find. The Ligurians and the Italian and foreign citizens who want to reach Liguria need facts, not words and coordination of the highways and the authorities responsible with the mayors of Liguria, which does not happen. This is confirmed by the mayor of Rapallo I spoke to a short time ago. Thank you for your kindness, but I am absolutely unhappy with the initiatives that the Government does not take to remedy the enormous inconvenience of road traffic in Liguria. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u172	Senator Malan has the power to explain the question 3-02531 on the realization of the high-speed railway projects and on the construction of a bridge on the Strait of Messina, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u173	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the construction of infrastructure is indispensable for every modern country to progress and to be competitive with other countries in all sectors of production.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u174	I apologize, Senator Malan. I ask the Brothers of Italy Group to allow Senator Malan to carry out his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u175	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). The development of infrastructure is absolutely essential to be competitive in all economic sectors, in industry, in agriculture, in tourism and in all economic sectors of our country. In this, the development of high-speed trains that today allow to move very quickly in much of the country, not in all, was certainly an initiative for which we have particular pride, having been carried out by the Berlusconi Government, in particular by the second and third. Great amounts of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) are now being committed in this area. However, we have read with some concern some of his statements concerning the bridge over the Strait of Messina, which is true that it does not clearly solve the problems of general road traffic of Sicily, but undoubtedly, if there is no way to arrive quickly in Sicily, it is very difficult to think of an improvement of the highways of that Region. At the same time we have read some statements, which you made to the press on 12 May, on the high-capacity line, although today it is still known as a high-speed line, Turin-Lyon. It is said that we still need a debate on the path and the compensatory works, but these things have been going on for 20 years. I would therefore like to reassure you, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, on what you intend to do about the bridge over the Strait of Messina, the Turin-Lion high-speed line and also the other lines that I have listed: Liguria-Alpi, Palermo- Catania-Messina, Naples-Bari, Verona-Brennero, Rome-Pescara, Orte-Falconara, Taranto-Battipaglia and Salerno-Reggio Calabria. Having not written it in the text of the question, I cannot do so, because I should have deposited it before, but since my colleague, Mr Floris, who is Sardinian, is here, I would also ask you something about trains, even not at high speed, but only at medium speed, for Sardinia, which is really lacking. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Professor Giovannini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u176	Mr President, as has been mentioned, the question concerns three different aspects. On the first aspect, concerning the stable crossing of the Strait of Messina, after the transmission to Parliament of the final report of the technical working group for the evaluation of alternative solutions, the Government considers it absolutely fundamental to compare with Parliament, with the other institutions and with civil society, so that it can have the adoption of a decision, that allows to best respond to the demand for mobility to and from Sicily, with infrastructures and means of transport adequate and sustainable from the economic, social and environmental point of view. I would like to point out - and this does not mean that the debate is closed, otherwise - that important investments are included in the PNRR, which concern the high speed Salerno-Reggio Calabria, Palermo-Catania-Messina and the dynamic crossing of the Strait, in such a way as to improve, in the meantime, the situation of citizens and, of course, businesses. On the European route of the FTA, the work is being carried out, under an international agreement approved by Parliament and, with the signing, in April 2020, of the amendment to the European grant contract, the Community funding has been fully preserved, with a temporal extension to the whole 2022. For the national route I absolutely emphasize the importance of the work, but we also know that, since RFI has not carried out the design of a part of the national route, we need a comparison with the territories and I have also talked about this in my interview, so that we can proceed as soon as possible to the design of the national route. Finally, I would like to point out that the new appointments of competence of the Italian Government to the Board of Directors of TELT-Tunnel Euralpin Lyon Turin, the Audit Committee and the Contract Committee are in the process of being defined. As regards the high-speed and high-capacity projects Liguria-Alpi, Palermo-Catania-Messina, Naples-Bari, Verona-Brennero, Rome-Pescara, Orte-Falconara and Taranto-Battipaglia, I would point out that they are all interventions included in the PNRR, whose implementation will take place according to the timetable included in the plan, which, as you know, is now at the attention of the European Commission, for final approval. In any case, the interventions mentioned will have to be completed by 2026, as foreseen by the Next generation EU. Of course, as far as Salerno-Reggio Calabria and Brescia-Vicenza-Padova are concerned, since they are financed outside the PNRR, these are achievements, which are expected to be completed by 2030. Also in the PNRR, however, there are interventions for some sections of the Salerno-Reggio Calabria, as we know, and a part of the Brescia-Vicenza-Padova is already running, as mentioned recently also by Ferrovie dello Stato. As regards Sardinia, which is not the subject of the question, we are paying particular attention to it in the PNRR. There are some speeches on the so-called historic trains, but they are obviously not the ones we wanted to talk about. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Malan to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u177	Thank you, Minister, for the reassurances and times you have spoken to us about. He also added the theme of appointments for certain companies, which are fundamental to the realization of what our country needs. I count that these appointments are made with the criterion of competence and sharing of the necessity, for our country, to complete these works, that - as I have said - are indispensable in order to grow in all the economic fields and also for a more rational and more respectful transport policy of the environment. As for the crossing of the Strait of Messina, you spoke of stable crossing and dynamic crossing. I would have been more reassured if he had said the word "bridge"; but, if the substance is that, fine. Know that there should be a great convergence in this country, because these works are of interest to everyone. We know how the way of moving has changed and we are aware of the improvement of the economic possibilities, of the exchanges and of the movements in the areas of our Country that have been touched by the high railway speed, besides of course the necessity to provide also in the other fields of the infrastructures.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u178	Senator Corti has the right to explain the question 3-02530 on the planning of the surveillance and inspection of the motorway viaducts, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u179	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his attention. As you know, in April 2020 the guidelines of the Higher Council of Public Works on the surveillance of bridges and viaducts were issued, which constitute the reference for the adoption by Anas and the motorway dealers of the actions to be taken in relation to the deepening and the frequency of inspections, the timing of the interventions, as well as any measures to limit traffic. However, we know that bureaucratic delays have a lot to do with the planning and execution of mandatory maintenance operations to which the viaducts must be subjected according to the parameters set out in the guidelines in question. Therefore, considering that the inspections by the personnel of the Ministry can determine the immediate closure of entire motorway sections that are critical due to delays in maintenance - as mentioned earlier - and that this mechanism can create real distortions, even with the sudden adoption of measures of limitation of the traffic following inspections by the Ministry and Aspi (as happened in the case of the viaduct of Valle Ragone, that we have heard expounded a moment ago from another Senator question), we must remember in this context that the mayors of the area inherent in the viaduct of Valle Ragone had already asked and reported several times to Autostrade for Italy the necessity of a control of the relative zone. This was also the case in February 2021. It was answered to these mayors, who worked in synergy, that the controls are quarterly and therefore not followed a constructive approach towards the mayors of the territory (this is reason for regret). Given that three years have passed since the tragedy of the Morandi Bridge, unfortunately there is not yet a plan that guarantees compatibility between the interventions to secure the works and the needs of businesses and citizens. These sudden blocking measures penalise, above all, exceptional transport, creating great economic damage to all operators in the sector. This situation, however, is likely above all to disadvantage all citizens and businesses that benefit from road transport, causing queues and delays due to the compulsory movement of heavy goods vehicles on ordinary roads. All this said, with this question we urge the Government to know what initiatives it intends to take in order to modify this mechanism of sudden closing of important motorways, clarifying also the criterion according to which the arteries under inspection are chosen, in order to ensure a compatibility between the interventions of safety of the infrastructures and the exercise of all economic activities, including that of exceptional transport.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u180	The Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Professor Giovannini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u181	Mr President, the question certainly deals with a very important subject, as we heard earlier. However, we must realise that in the coming years Italy will have to commit very important resources for the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance of infrastructure, with a view to risk prevention, given the foreseeable impact of climate change, but above all the vetusity of some works. Personally, in 2009 I led a research group to the OECD, which showed that, around the years 2020-2030, all the industrialized countries that had built their infrastructure in the post-war period would have to face problems and above all very important expenses to put them in safety. Of course, one of the fundamental initiatives for the economic and social development of the country, but also in the key of sustainability, is the security of our infrastructures, which must meet the needs of businesses and citizens. It is no coincidence that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan provides for an unprecedented investment for this sector, to which investments on national funds are added. Of course, in the short term there are inconveniences. Coming to the Ligurian road and motorway network, various redevelopment and adaptation activities are under way, focusing particularly on viaducts, bridges, tunnels, barriers and acoustic protections. It is on these issues that the Ministry has provided very relevant guidelines and checks that dealers put them into practice. At the specific request of the Ministry, the managers have started investigations in order to increase the knowledge of the state of the individual infrastructures and for a better programming of the maintenance operations, in order to reduce to the maximum the discomfort to the user. This is precisely why, after the event you mentioned, a coordination table has been set up with the territorial authorities and the main trade associations, in which the intervention programmes and the measures to optimize traffic are shared. Given the orientation to tourism of Liguria and the next summer season, we will have to contend the different needs with great attention. With regard to the method of selection of arteries under inspection, interventions shall be carried out on the basis of the criteria set out in the guidelines. From this point of view, the Ministry closely follows its implementation. With the circular of the Ministry of 9 April last, a surveillance plan was also prepared to be applied to each tunnel, in order to carry out planned interventions in advance. The new guidelines adopted, as well as the circular cited above, require operators (including Anas) to carry out a supervisory activity in a strict manner, allowing them to acquire a deep state of knowledge of the infrastructure and minimise the risk of finding sudden criticalities, the overcoming of which could impose the adoption of extraordinary measures on the circulation. In conclusion, just as regards the maintenance activities of the state roads, Anas performs standardised procedures of control over all works of art, with four quarterly recurrent inspections and one more in-depth once a year. As a result of these inspection and control activities, the company prepares the maintenance plan, which of course takes into account the needs already mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u182	Senator Corti has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u183	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I would like to point out that the case of the A12 motorway is emblematic, but the situation unfortunately concerns the whole of our motorway network and not only that. Companies and industrial poles suffer some criticalities when there is no possibility of accessing maritime outlets. Therefore, the logistic and industrial criticalities are added to those that we hope can be overcome shortly with the relaunch and the resumption of the tourism, so as to allow a breath of oxygen to our economic recovery. The League has always believed and truly supports the tourism sector, as it has shown in the field even in recent weeks. I believe that communication and planning are needed and, above all, that the transit of exceptional transport should be allowed and facilitated. I am very pleased that you mentioned earlier the appointment of the new president of the National Agency for the Safety of Railways and Road Infrastructures, because unfortunately it has remained silent for almost two years, since it was launched by the then Minister Toninelli. I certainly hope that the new president will be able to relaunch and structure this agency in order to achieve tangible and measurable results in the short term. Today we have Liguria as a point of reference, which has suffered in first person and is suffering a great discomfort, however, as a mountaineer of the Modena Apennines, I must say that the problem of the road is felt crosswise throughout the Apennines and beyond. I hope we can do a good job together. We are always at your disposal - as we have shown - to help your Ministry and to cooperate effectively. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u184	Senator Corrado has the right to explain the question 3-02532 on recruitment procedures for the cultural sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u185	Mr President, Minister, the management of staff in the Ministry of Culture has long been a very painful point. The organic plant has been cut from about 25,000 to 19,000 units. For the combination of the massive retirements and the block of the turnover remain in actual service little more than 12,000 employees, with very serious gaps in all roles. The competitions are very rare and the creative administration in force at the Roman College seems able, in my opinion, only to architect selections that ignore titles, experiences and merits to base, without any transparency, on questionable criteria. Limited to the procedures in place, the competition launched in 2019 for 1,052 employees, reception and surveillance has been stationary for almost two years. Covid's pre-selection of over 200,000 candidates and published the results, the 8,414 potentials concerned do not know when the writing will take place - to accelerate, instead of in decentralised mode, one might think to keep it in Rome simultaneously - nor do they know if, after that, they will be called to support the oral test, as provided for in the ban. The latter could be renounced, in truth, in pandemic time, especially since knowledge of computer-aided drafting (CAD) and information and communication technology (ITC) and mastery of the English language will be established in the writing, and especially in view of the dramatic shortage of staff of the MIC. On the other hand, the selection of 500 professionals, including archaeologists, architects, art historians, engineers, construction assistants and accounting technicians, in the opinion of the questioner, of unprecedented wrongdoing took place on 29 December 2020 for the collaborations under contract with the Superintendences, ex article 7, paragraph 6, of Legislative Decree n. 165 of 2001. Anomalies are already found in the selection notice and then in the provisional lists of the winners and the eligible ones, obtained from the 2,138 requests received, in the communication that procrastinates the extension of the acts for the many presumed unsuitable ones that have applied, in the lack of request of the curriculum, in the distribution of the scores and I could continue. It is therefore requested to know, with regard to the competition for 1,052 persons employed in the use, reception and surveillance (AFAV), whether the Minister is able to indicate a certain date for the performance of the written test, whether or not to confirm the oral test and illustrate a reasonably precise time schedule regarding the timing of the entire procedure. With regard to the selection of the 500 collaborators of the Superintendents, it is asked whether the Minister does not point out the need for an immediate suspension and revocation of this selection, also for the profiles of foreseeable erarial damage due to the disputes to which the road opens, and the need for the simultaneous start of a faster, more coherent and economically advantageous procedure for the internalization of professional figures dependent on the company in house ALES Arte lavoro e servizi SpA, since these resources would already serve the public good, but under the yoke of private interest. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u186	Mr President, with regard to the competition for 1,052 AFAV, the written test has been delayed, as for all competitions in itinere, following the emergency of health care. Already during 2020 the Ministry, without prejudice to the primary need to safeguard the health protection of candidates, as for all other competitions, and of the staff engaged in supervisory activities, asked Formez, whose support is used by the interministerial commission for the activation of the project of requalification of public administrations (Ripam) for the organization of this competition, to proceed to the reboot of the competition procedure with the calendarization of the written test, also using the modalities of carrying out the new tests provided for in Article 248 of Decree-Law No 34 of 2020, which provides the use of computer and digital tools for the written test and videoconference modalities for oral tests. Of this we are concluding - with the competent Department of the Civil Service - the modalities of conduct. With regard to the so-called selection of the 500, the relevant Directorate-General launched, in December 2020, the comparative procedure for only qualifications and professional requirements for the assignment of collaborative tasks, in accordance with the law. It is not - I want to say this, because I have read something in the newspapers - a public competition, but a procedure to be carried out quickly, taking into account the deadline for carrying out tasks, through which to identify not new employees, but office support professionals and therefore not recruit internal personnel. It was therefore decided that the application for participation, drawn up according to the format made available to the Ministry on the computer platform, should be accompanied by a brief personal presentation, with the indication of the qualifications obtained and the professional experience gained, self-declared by the candidate, sufficient to represent effectively the training acquired with courses of high training, scientific improvement and updating, as well as the professional experiences considered relevant and qualifying for a particular competence in the field of the protection and enhancement of the heritage. 2,138 requests have arrived, which have been evaluated by a commission composed exclusively of officials of the Ministry, as reported in the selection notice, which considered for each candidate the professional experience gained, the specific training and the motivational letter submitted. The verification of the self-certification of the successful candidates, following the publication of the provisional ranking, is on the website of the Directorate-General and checks are being carried out at the superintendences to which they are assigned. I would like to stress further that the effectiveness of cooperation contracts is conditional on the outcome of the Court of Auditors' prior review. Therefore, for all these reasons and precisely because of the need for staff that you yourself rightly pointed out, we have no intention of suspending or withdrawing the selection. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Corrado may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u187	Minister, you know, I didn't expect to see you here today. I was convinced that I had to respond to his shadow, to his mute ash, so having her in the presence allows me instead to correct a mistake that I made on the last occasion when we were in the same circumstances, when I told her that he would be reminded as the worst Minister of Cultural Heritage in the history of the Republic. In the meantime, he has deleted the cultural goods even from the denomination of his Ministry, so this helped me to reflect and made me understand the error, that is, that I underestimated her and underestimated her ambition, much higher: evidently, he aspires to go up to the Colle, in one or the other garment, precisely thanks to those demerits that, in any case, will allow her to be reminded simply as the worst Minister of the history of the Republic and point, (and this palm I believe does not take it away from her). I find it really difficult to understand how he could - even in the media - accredit himself as a political end. In reality, only in a country subjugated by constant provincialism and mediocrity is it possible to overturn the values so that politics, instead of being service, becomes a sort of weaving of plots and exchange of personal favors with stakeholders. You replied to the 1,052 AFAVs, giving an answer which, in my opinion, is a veritable game of prestige, while, with regard to the answer to the 500... president. I would ask you to stick to the subject of the question, and that is precisely the subject, Senator Corrado, because this is not a debate between you and the Minister. CORRADO (Mixed). That is what I am doing, Mr President: I was talking about the 500s procedure. The answer is an affront to collective intelligence and I would like to mention the letter that some of them - as you know, Minister - have sent to the President of the Republic, but keeping it reserved, out of modesty, which does not mean that they are afraid of retaliation, but that they are ashamed, of you and the situation. We are talking about multititled professionals who have collaborated for years with the creative bureaucracy of his Ministry and who, however, have been umpteenth time, teased and abused. Today... (The microphone switches off automatically).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u188	Senator Montevecchi has the right to explain the question 3-02533 on the next initiatives on constraints and organization in the protection of cultural goods, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u189	Minister, as you know, in addition to the pandemic emergency that we have been facing for a year, against the increasingly urgent background, there is a climate, which needs a real change of paradigm, which places the well-being of the planet and of people at the centre of political decisions. Culture can promote the development of new models, and it is also important in this context to protect the landscape. Also the document of the International council on monuments and sites (Icomos), presented in Baku in 2019, reminds us how the role of culture in this sense is important and can be fundamental. As you know, when we talk about landscape we are not only talking about aesthetics, but also about the environment, therefore with the issues related to climate change, if it is true that by 2050 we have to expect a rise in the seas of 20 centimeters and if we also think about all the phenomena of hydrogeological failure that are worsening in the internal parts of our country. In the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) we have allocated only 3% of the resources to this; let me say that we could do more, especially with regard to scheduled, preventive and ordinary maintenance activities. He knows that there are many criticisms made by professionals in the sector regarding the age-old problems of the sector: it is not only a lack of planning and funds for ordinary management, but a lack of staff, proposed suspension of the activities of preventive archaeology, as some professionals denounce in an article de "I Fatto Quotidiano" of May 19 (so it is very recent), perennial outsourcing of services and absence of a complete mapping activity. He is well aware that the government's tight schedule to put green procurement in place risks putting in trouble the bodies that are already under staff and are affected by a reform of their organization (the one of 2014) that has severely penalized their efficiency and their effectiveness. So it is not a question of barricades, however, Minister, I ask you what initiatives you intend to take with regard to the next Decree-Law simplifications, taking into account the constitutional principle of the protection of the heritage, and what initiatives you intend to take in order to resolve these years of critical issues and the serious problems related to the organization and the lack of staff, especially within the supervisors. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u190	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Montevecchi for putting the real issues of staff without the need for aggressions or insults, and I think that is a good thing. It is clear that, with regard to the need for the PNRR to comply with the deadlines for not losing funding, these days we are discussing speeding up and simplifying procedures which will be the subject of a measure which the Council of Ministers will approve in a sufficiently short time. In that discussion I have quite clear - and I thank Senator Montevecchi for having reminded us here - that the principles of protection are written and established in Article 9 of the Constitution: we are the only country to have among the fundamental principles the protection of the historical and artistic heritage and the landscape of the nation. Let us think of the farsightedness of the constituent Fathers, who wrote more than seventy years ago the principle of protection of the landscape. In the name of that principle and also in force of a very strong Italian legislation that goes back to the pre-unitary States, then to that of 1939 and then precisely to the Constitution, from the point of view of both the norms and the widespread presence on the territory through the superintendences, an important operation has been carried out to protect the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. It is clear that Parliament will then be able to debate, because of course the decree-law will be submitted to the parliamentary debate. I am absolutely available and I am working together because there are procedures that speed up, make it easier and remove obstacles in order to respect the times, but in general, because we must give answers to the demands of the productive world and the citizens, without weakening the principles of protection. On this I believe that within the Government we are achieving a balance that Parliament will be able to assess. We are also considering extraordinary measures, such as the hypothesis that for the work of the PNRR there is a single national superintendence that applies to works that cross the territorial competences of more superintendence, as happens for a large infrastructure or those that exceed a certain value, always in the idea of making faster without weakening the principles of protection. There is, of course, the problem of staff. I know that we have different opinions on this, but I believe that the reform of the superintendents has facilitated its work, because before there were three (for archaeological goods, for architectural goods and for artistic goods) who intervened on the same good, often with different locations in cities and with different opinions, while following the reform there is a single superintendence that gives a single answer to the citizen and to the companies who ask, having within them the competences in all these fields. There is also a staff problem: he spoke of the competition for 500 officials, the Department of Public Service will soon launch a selection for 250 third-party officials for this Ministry and above all the principle of course-competition for the technical managers of the Ministry was introduced for the first time in our legal system, which has already been banned by the National School of Administration and the School of Cultural Heritage and Activities Foundation. There is therefore a subject of staff and one of rules: we will tackle them all, trying to defend the constitutional principle of protection to which we are all bound.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u191	Senator Montevecchi has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u192	Mr President, I am partially satisfied. I am pleased that the Minister is publicly declaring that he has at heart the issues of protection and that he will do everything possible to find a synthesis between this need, guaranteed by our Constitutional Charter, and that of a change of paradigm and an ecological transition. I am not satisfied, Minister, because I am absolutely not convinced that the reform of the superintendents has brought positive aspects, but it is not I who say so, but the operators themselves who work every day in all the yards within the superintendents. I therefore ask you to make a further effort and to read carefully the article that I recalled from the Newspaper Fact, but also what Andrea Carandini, president of the FAI, writes today in an intervention in which he places them in a very clear, synthetic, but incisive way, some issues, including that of the national superintendence. The further we get away from the territory, the more I think we lose control over it. There is no need for barricades, but to find with a serene soul, thinking about the good of this country and its artistic and landscape heritage, a square between the needs of a change of paradigm in a direction of ecology and decarbonization and the protection of our beauty, because that is also a right.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u193	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u196	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, in thanking you for your prompt intervention, however, I would like to reinforce the reasons which led you to speak during the presentation of Senator Corrado, because I want it to be left to the acts that cannot be used in this House the expressions that the Senator used, which go absolutely outside the content of the question put to Minister Franceschini, but above all they are infamous accusations, in my opinion serious, that I want to stigmatize. It was said, in fact, that Minister Franceschini would build his entire political career on an exchange of favors, in relation to exchanges of personal interests. I think that this is serious: it is not a justification that this happens when the cameras can be more prominent; it remains, however, and always, both when there are cameras, and when there are no cameras, the limit not to be crossed in this House, which is to do defamatory insults, as in this case. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to extend my request for stigmatization to the President of the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u197	Senator Ferrari, the presidency will certainly be informed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u200	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, I would simply like to point out that I did not associate, as my colleague says, the Minister's career with that situation. I said that only a country in which there is chronic mediocrity and chronic provincialism can overturn values to the point of transforming service politics into a matter of personal relationships and the exchange of favors. It was a general statement, I do not accept the distorted interpretation given by my colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u201	Senator Corrado, you've made your point clear. I would remind you, however, that, as always, everyone then assumes responsibility for what he says in or outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u204	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, for a few weeks now the wine-growers of Cirò, in Crotonese, a territory of very ancient wine-growing tradition, have been warning about the wind farm called Timpe di Muzzunetti, which should include 200 meters high shovels in the heart of the DOC Cirò vineyards, a few steps from the sea, with a very serious impact on the plain of the Fego and on the Lipuda valley, where the beauty of the wine-growing landscape has been the destination of wine-lovers for years. Since 2003 the project has been modified several times and has obtained several extensions from the Calabria Region; the last one, in 2018, allows to install four wind generators by 2021. However, the three already existing wind farms have caused a serious injury to the territory north of Neto, dotted also by isolated shovels, scattered without rules, and by monsters generated by an uncontrolled building that seals with the not finished the urban disorder and the inability to imagine models of development that do not foresee the use of cement and the consumption of soil. Faced with yet another attack on the territory, however, there has been an uprising of the Cirotan community, united with the winemakers, because it is aware of the serious risks for the 50 active wineries and for the flourishing economy of the territory, where the growing wine-making activity in the quality of the landscape is a fundamental element of attraction, in addition to the organoleptic quality of wines. Wine-growers are asking only for the respect of existing laws, Mr President: the regional landscape territorial framework (QTRP) of 2016, the national guidelines on renewable energy, Article 9 of the Constitution and therefore the code of cultural heritage of the landscape, the national and regional legislation regulating wind energy in recognised contexts of high-quality agriculture, consolidated agricultural landscapes and quality food production. Just yesterday the Calabrian regional council and the municipal one of Cirò Marina have taken position against the realization of the wind farm. I welcome these statements, but the attention must remain maximum and the guidelines expressed must be translated into concrete acts for the definitive protection of high-quality districts. In a territory that still sees so many young people emigrate today, the confidence of those who want to remain, despite a thousand difficulties, for the sake of their own land, is not humiliated by private interests that, in addition to an irremediable devastation, will leave nothing else to the territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u207	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to return to the question of territorial continuity. As I had already illustrated in a previous participation on decree-law n. 45 of 2021 on the transports and the great ships, the tender carried out in order to guarantee the connections between Arbatax and the mainland, in the line Civitavecchia-Arbatax-Cagliari, has gone desert. The link with Ogliastra is guaranteed for the month of June and, from press news, we learn that in July there will be no more. I therefore call on the Presidency to call for a reply to Question No 4-05288 which we have tabled to understand what the real intentions of the Government are, if it really intends to keep part of Sardinia isolated from Italy, or if it thinks that the connection with Cagliari is sufficient to ensure the territorial continuity of the naval line Civitavecchia-Arbatax-Cagliari, that, jumping Arbatax, would become Civitavecchia-Cagliari. The Harbour of Arbatax would be cut off from the marine connections of territorial continuity, with the loss of an important harbour activity and of places of job that are currently occupied. I think it doesn't interest the Sardinians, at least, if it's the Tirrenia company or anything else that guarantees it. I am convinced that the service must be guaranteed, even if it represents a burden on the State. Moreover, it is expenditure which must be put into place for a continuous service of territorial continuity. I trust in a prompt response from the government to find a definitive solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u210	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, Sicily suffers from a very serious problem in the management of waste, aggravated by the imminent closure of the Lentini landfill in the province of Syracuse, which remains in operation only thanks to continuous extensions. Yet President Musumeci had been warned of the risk of saturation of that site and the need to confer outside the island, as a public warning banned by the Department of Water and Waste, confirming the failure of the policies of his Junta, which will be paid at a high price by the Sicilians. The landfill of Lentini, today in controlled administration, was managed by Antonino and Salvatore Leonardi, sent to trial last December 21 on the charge of having created a system of illicit disposal of waste from more than two hundred Sicilian municipalities, aimed at the exclusive pursuit of profits through agreements with local authorities. No sudden emergencies, then, no crises of the past few weeks. The much praised waste plan has not served any purpose. Suffice it to say that, in order to remedy the current situation, the President of the Region of Sicily in recent days would have dusted up the harmful and obsolete idea of resorting to incinerators. At the same time, it insists on the use of existing landfills, such as that of Cozzo Vuturo, in the Nennese, a plant that, as we have been denouncing for years, has already shown its limits, from the risks to the environment to those for the health of the citizens of Enna and Calascibetta, caused by the spills of percolate that, polluting the water streams and the groundwater downstream, compromise the good name of a quality agricultural area. In this scenario is framed the surreal story of Dittaino's composting plant, always in the Ennese, on which I have submitted a specific question to understand why a public property plant, financed entirely with public resources, that would solve the problems of the treatment of organic waste of an entire province, could have been sold out in order to repay the debts of the optimal territorial area (ATO) of Enna, that amount to more than 200 million, result of an evil clientele management by the local policy. The case in point is only the closest example to me of how the issue of waste has been dealt with without an overall view. In Sicily there is no need for incinerators, but rather for the European target of 65% separate collection and 10% as the maximum threshold to be sent to landfill. More and more virtuous behaviour in line with the principles of the circular economy must be encouraged. Finally, it is necessary to strengthen the separate collection network through the creation of hubs dedicated to the recovery of plastic and textile waste, as foreseen by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, transforming a problem into an opportunity for development, creating jobs and putting Sicily at the forefront in the field of recovery. The ecological transition also goes through these good practices. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u213	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my speech today aims to bring to the attention of this House an environmental damage caused by the floods and currents of the Tiber, which have poured at the mouth of what was the blond river tons of waste, which transform a unique and suggestive landscape into an environment of degradation and dangerous. Despite regular police intervention by local authorities, the results are very limited, both in time and in the amount of waste disposed of. I would like to raise awareness of the Minister of the ecological transition to protect the delicate balance of all that natural environment that is the mouth of the Tiber, between the X Town Hall, Ostia and Fiumicino, an environment that obviously, as we all know, is also a resource for local tourism. I would therefore simply like to know - and I also put a question on this a few days ago - what the Minister's intentions are, reaffirming this environmental drama in this House, because the mouth of the Tiber is really a very delicate environment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u214	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-329.ana.u215	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 25 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.19 a.m.
