ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr GINETTI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to wish - and I imagine also those of the Assembly - undersecretary Pierpaolo Sileri for the birth of little Michelangelo. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions for individual distrust 1-00341, 1-00342 and 1-00343 against the Minister for Health, Mr Hope. I call Senator Zaffini to explain motion No 341.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today the act we are dealing with is one of the guarantees that pertain to the role of the opposition, evidently protected by a series of spaces that Brothers of Italy intends to honour to the full and completely (if there has been any doubt), also bringing back to the appropriate place, fifteen months after the declaration of the state of emergency, a lucid analysis, even if unfortunately impietious, of the work of the Ministry and the Minister in this long story that has entertained the Italian people, our nation, our economic activities, our individual freedoms, the structure of our National Health Service. It is quite clear that this distrust that summarizes the motion refers to the whole complex of which Minister Hope represents the tip of the pyramid. It is quite clear, as we will explain in the continuation of the debate, that at the moment mistrust is for everyone, because equally everyone has contributed to what is now a truly striking situation, that is, a pandemic picture with dramatic results, of which Italy today is the victim. Therefore, both on the death side, on the economic side and on the possibility of vaccination, today the country suffers from a series of shortcomings, shortcomings, delays and failures that pay heavily. The story to which the act mainly refers is that of the famous, or rather infamous pandemic plan, which has entertained television broadcasts, talk shows, commentators, journalists, newspapermakers (who more or less competent on this subject), but who above all today must entertain the Assembly of the Senate of the Republic, that is, the Parliament of the Republic. I am referring to the fact that, at the time when the declaration of the state of emergency was made in January 2020, our pandemic plan was dated 2006 and a decision by the European Parliament to update it had been totally disregarded. This affair, moreover, is also committed by the judiciary today, therefore a body of the state that is investigating what has happened. However, beyond the competence to investigate the facts, statements and omissions that are guilty, which is obviously not political, what concerns politics is the trivial circumstance of having to recognize that the Italian State has faced the pandemic emergency without an absolutely indispensable instrument, that simply said who had to do what, so much so that the result and the consequence of this lack of regulatory framework, also at the level of regulations, instructions, roles and competences, has caused that confusion, that inadequacy and that overlapping of statements and of the most disparate instructions, that still exists today. So, Minister, if this could be any mitigating factor, I hereby declare to you that the motion of no confidence is not addressed only to you... [[Recalls of the President]] I'm done, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u6	You're out of time, too, Senator Zaffini. I'm warning you. I gave her an extra minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u7	Mr Zaffini (FdI). I said that the motion of no confidence is addressed to the entire apparatus to which you obviously had to oversee (circumstance that did not happen) and that you and the Italians provided a series of information, the most disparate and the most incompetent, which to date must be put under the lens of the accusation of the Parliament of the Republic and the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u8	I call Senator Paragon to explain motion 342.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u9	Mr President, Mr Hope, you are called a rigorist. In other languages the contrast was between hawks and doves, but you are a rigorist, Minister Hope, because you are very strict and very hard at writing and enforcing the rules. However, in order to be rigorous, we must also have a moral and ethical framework worthy of the rigour that we want to pursue. Then let's see what his moral and ethical rigor is, Minister Hope. Sometimes it is also clear from the details, for example that you do not look up while someone talks about you and with you on the motion. Or the detail of writing books whose title is: 'Cause we're gonna heal. From the hardest days to a new idea of health. The problem is not to write books; the problem is to write books, take them to the bookstore and then withdraw them from the sale, because this means that there is a network of friendships and protection that somehow surrounds his work. I assure you that in the publishing world it doesn't work that way; you write books and start a business chain, so that book comes to the bookstore and has to be sold, because that is the core business of a publisher. But obviously you have a network of friendships that even allows you this passage. I don't think Feltrinelli always does this; but this may be her problem with Feltrinelli. But there is another problem: she always manages to extend and prolong the deception for which she pretends to want to let others know, but then denies them the possibility of knowing. And so he withdraws everything, he doesn't answer, he hides; transparency doesn't belong to him. That's why he can't be strict. In order to be rigorous, we must have an imperative in transparency. Many times I have tried to speak with her about the masks, about those masks that you have also stamped with the logo of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, perhaps because they were made by FCA (other friends). And yet he didn't answer. We have asked more questions about masks, fans, in short, about all the material that many magistrates are now investigating. It could have involved Parliament, but in this case too it preferred not to answer questions unless they were questions from friends. That is the problem: do not answer to anything other than belong to a network of friendships. All this, of course, is creating a mechanism for which you should be the holder of rigour and truth. But that is not the case; indeed, your game is to hide, not to let people know and then to blame those Italians who are acting exemplary. Those masks, the Italians have been wearing them for a year. Yet perhaps they are wearing masks, which you have imported from China, one in two of which is not effective, in terms of protection, as it should. There are prosecutors of the Republics who are investigating, but you do not want to let the Italians know the truth: this is the theme. [[Recalls of the President]] In conclusion, Minister, the same applies to the updating of the pandemic report, which you were aware of. The theme is not if you blocked that report: no! But you were aware of the gravity of that relationship and the tensions it was generating, because Ranieri Guerra wrote to you and involved his chain of command. So you knew very well that the content of that report was creating turmoil and tension within its ministerial machine and the World Health Organization. Once again, however, you, Minister, have witnessed the same operation that Feltrinelli did, namely to make the documents disappear. That is why he should not be more worthy of being the Minister of Health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u10	I call Senator Garnet to explain motion No 343.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, our motion of no confidence, tabled by the Alternative Group, arises not from the desire to politically exploit the moment of your and the whole country's difficulties, but from the need to stand up for the constitutional rights of citizens, who today pass from the right to health, which unfortunately is not adequately protected within your Dicastery. This is said by the Bergamo prosecutor's inquiry, which is, however, only the tip of the iceberg of the many problems, which unfortunately led to a bad management of the pandemic in place. This investigation has now established that, since 2006, the pandemic plan has not been updated by your Dicastery, that you have done nothing and that, unfortunately, the senior executives, under your supervision, have also tried to conceal this data from the WHO, but also from all citizens. This is extremely serious, because the relationship of trust between citizens and institutions has been interrupted, which at the moment are telling them that economic activities must remain closed, that schools cannot function as a regime and that therefore the right to work, health and education - all constitutional rights, which unfortunately pass from the management of its Dicastery - are now irremediably compromised. There have been delays and failures in the acquisition of data on contagions, which are always provided in aggregate form and therefore without dividing between deaths of people without comorbidity and deaths of people with other diseases. There is also the absence of protocols of home care, because if it had been aimed, as well as vaccines, even effective protocols of home care, maybe many deaths could have been avoided and many beds, destined for the patients of Covid, could have been allocated instead to patients of other diseases, who are not being cured and who are dying of something else. Do we also want to talk about schools? The schools have been closed for a year and a half! For a year and a half the schools have opened and closed, in a totally disordered way, in all the Regions, to the will of the Presidents of the Region, of the mayors or of the local administrators. This can happen for any reason, because there is no clarity about the closure criteria. The Government, moreover, does not appeal neither the illegitimate closing orders, nor the illegitimate orders for the didactica à la carte, which may be arranged only by the Ministry of Education. The government is completely in breach of the constitutional rights of its citizens and should go home: not only you, Minister, but the whole Government. If we want to talk about Calabria and Molise, I remember, in particular, that in Calabria there is now the second decree issued for the same Region. It is already over four months that the decree is effective, yet Commissioner Longo has been accompanied by the other two subcommissiars for not ten days and there are still those other 25 staff members, who I do not know when you, Minister, will decide to provide in order to be able to fulfil all the necessities of the case. Calabria, in fact, unfortunately, is the last of the last Regions for the essential levels of assistance (LEA). Molise is also in quite a similar situation. Minister, I say that there is enough to put your mandate back to this House, to the President of the Council and to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u12	I declare the debate open. Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u13	Mr President, I believe that the approach of this House and its colleagues to this act is truly shameful. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I am not referring to the dignity that each of us owes to the role he plays and the compensation he receives, but to the more than 100,000 deaths that have occurred since the beginning of this pandemic and for what is happening in the country. All this must at least be honored by the role; on the contrary, the approach that exists in this House and in this hypertrophic majority compared to an analysis, which may not be shared but is absolutely indispensable fifteen months after the start of the emergency, is shameful. It is linked only to the logic of the bench, of the scranno. This is of no honour to this House, nor to our role, nor to what we are doing as an absolutely necessary and, indeed, indispensable act in the activity of the opposition, that is, a motion of individual distrust to the Minister of Health who has been responsible, despite him, for everything that has happened since the beginning of the pandemic. Colleagues, today this Minister, this Ministry and this country have a palmarès of honors that envy Belzebu because we have the record of deaths per million inhabitants. We're worse than Brazil! We have the record of reducing GDP in all Western countries and in the European Union. We forced our people to stay in prison for over fifteen months without a reason, without logic, with measures such as curfew. Even the CTS didn't feel that they supported him because they said they hadn't been interviewed. We did not do what the World Health Organization asked for for the pandemic plan, but we did not do it either for the famous three Ts which are the ABC, the base, the two plus two makes four health especially with regard to testing, that is to test the presence of the virus. We're still not doing tampons today. Even today we have not authorized saliva swabs, which is using all of Europe and which could be indispensable for school, for all the categories that need to restart Italy. It is useless that you prepare the PNRR, when you have put ready Italy, the Italians and our economic activities. Today we are simply trying to understand what happened. The majority, this majority, do nothing but turn their backs, chat and chat on the phone. This is shameful, ladies and gentlemen, because we have a dramatic picture. Then we can decide whether this involves individual responsibility of the Minister or not, but we cannot decide that we do not care, because that is shameful! Mr Minister, as I said at the end of the previous speech, you are not the only one responsible and I can also tell you that you are not even the most responsible. I am not complimenting you, because you, however, have a summit position and that does not honour you. She is the tip of a chain of inefficiencies of total drama. Together with you, we today distrust the infamous scientific technical committee, we distrust the Higher Institute of Health, we distrust AIFA, which still does not understand what it is waiting for, for example, to validate salivary tests. We challenge Agenas, who has not contributed at all to the management of this pandemic: it is a stone feast. We today distrust an entire apparatus, a Ministry which must be urged by the Senate Chamber to prepare a protocol of home therapies and which, in response, makes an appeal to the Council of State against the decision of the TAR. It is shameful, Minister! But who decided that appeal? The Senate of the Republic, unanimously, calls for the updating of the protocol for home therapies, which I remember, Minister, provided for the watchful expectation and tachypyrin: truly a shameful thing! The protocol, following the Senate vote, is updated, but you don't know where it is. Yesterday the ANSA told us it exists, but you don't know where it is, and it also gave us some anticipations about monoclonals. Well, the Ministry appeals. What appeal? But who decides these things? But is it a pret-à-porter? Is it a self-service? Is it a Conad Ministry? What is it? Who decides? Your chief of staff, the general manager, one of the twelve or thirteen (I don't even know how many)? It's an elephant apparatus! You don't know what's going on in there. We are faced, ladies and gentlemen, with a pandemic that has become endemic, moreover, at this moment. We have also failed the last beach, the last chance to get out of the trap, the vaccination campaign, which we are still failing. On the vaccines we have the registrar on the regions, on this and on the other, on those who vaccinate, on the responsibilities, on the pharmacists yes or the pharmacists not. We still don't have vaccines today. Minister, I listened when you came here to brag, of course in good faith, about this notorious agreement in Europe, telling us that this agreement would guarantee us everything that would be needed to make a vaccination campaign that, by the summer, would lead to the immunity of the flock. To date, we have just fallen on the political table the inconsistency of this agreement, the inability to guarantee at least the deliveries and the punctuality of the deliveries. Today, the regions, which have however worked to adopt plans for administration, are without vaccines. Most are without vaccines. It's not true I can't vaccinate. The regions, where more, where less, are administering 80-90 percent of the doses received. That's it. Just look at the numbers. With regard to all this, Minister, today we must note that the path has been studded with mistakes: from tests that have not been made, to treatments with home therapies, to tracing, which we have lost from the beginning, from the very first moment. We declared ourselves defeated before the battle even began, because the famous Immuni app, of his trusted man Arcuri, was a hoax, an authentic hoax. Not to mention the pandemic plan, not to mention the home therapy protocol. Not to mention, Minister, everything in addition to the Covid-19, which has been completely suspended. There are two million cancer follow-ups suspended. This is a critical situation that Italians will live on their own skin, from a health point of view, for the next twenty years. All this materializes today with an act that finally forces (I use this term, given the interest shown) the Assembly of the Senate to address these issues, which Italians are forced to live on their own every day. Minister Hope, his Ministry, rather than dealing with providing adequate therapies and taking proper measures of health containment, has become the Ministry of Closures, because it has acted only on the side of constraints and restrictions of individual and enterprise freedoms. All this we are paying now in terms of certain and real damage and we will pay it in future also in terms of cessation of profit, because when the economies of other more equipped countries, ready and good of us will part again, we will still have to dispose of everything that has happened in these last damned fifteen months. Colleagues, you need a whisper of intellectual honesty. Enough with the self-absolutions and the saying that the pandemic was serious, heavy and dramatic (we all know this); the inadequacy of this Ministry and this Minister was also striking and under the eyes of all. I hope that all of us will have the honesty to recognize him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u14	Senator Guidolin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u15	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, no one could imagine that this parliamentary term would be characterized by the ability to react to a pandemic, nor that we would lose 120,000 people among grandparents, parents, friends and even children. We have been called upon to have the objective of giving priority to the country. Of course, we may not have been perfect, but we have faced a dramatically new situation. After ten years of estimated cuts in EUR 37 billion, our National Health Service did not enjoy good health. Since we arrived at the government, we of Movimento 5 Stars have reversed this route, putting in place as many as 20 billion euros in order to strengthen our intensive therapies, promote new assumptions, adapt the structures, acquire means of rescue and much more. Minister, your commitment and that of the political forces alongside you have always been maximum, putting in place all the resources available to deal with this pandemic and save as many lives as possible. This is what needs to be done in the face of this disease and that is what every doctor, nurse and healthcare professional has done in recent months. [[Applause]] I come from the social and health world and, if I hadn't been here, in the year of pandemics just passed I would have definitely found myself fighting on the front line inside some hospital or RSA. My battle to give voice to the angels of this pandemic is instead trying to make it here. Mr. Minister, I think we have to tell ourselves the truth at this point. If the health system has held and is holding, it owes it above all to the high - indeed, very high - level of the human value of all its personnel and to their knowledge, skills, skills and empathy. We all have a lot to learn from these heroes of ours, who now ask us to improve the social and health system of our country. Over the last twenty years, we have seen an evolution of Italian health care and its professional figures who work with doctors within them. The protocols have certainly improved and also the cures, thanks to research. What's wrong with that is that slowly our health care system has opened its doors to profit, numbers and lobbying. This should be enough to make us understand what did not work in Lombardy, for example, or in the RSA. What makes our national health system great is not the structures and the balance of accounts, which are certainly important, but training, research, know-how, in a word its human resources. [[Applause]] We need to reconstruct a health system that first goes back to putting people and their needs at the centre of every action and takes care of those who work within it. Satisfaction, training, fair compensation, respect for rights: this they ask us and instead we are here, to discuss the distrust to Minister Hope, among other things presented by those who, in recent weeks, to the Government with the League, in my Region, Veneto, has thrown in the chaos nurses and social-sanitary workers with resolution n. 305, that in order to solve the problem of the shortage of nurses assigns to the socio-sanitary operator some tasks of the nurse who has university training. Colleagues, I recommend that you discuss more with our social and health staff. Young people do not take a degree in nursing because, after a course of university studies, they find themselves working in hospital wards or in the RSAs and I do not come to tell you that the organization of departments is the responsibility of the State, when we all know that it is at the head of the Regions, with its directors general, appointed by you and Regions who govern you. [[Applause]] Minister Hope, when I entered politics the thing that fascinated me most was the idea of being able to bring within the institutions citizens who, with their different skills and experiences of life, can make important contributions to society. Minister, we are here, we are here to solve the problems, such as the entry of the SDGs into the social and health area, and I believe that only by joining forces will we be able to give those answers that our health personnel have been waiting for decades and that they deserve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u16	Senator Ortis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u17	Mr President, I am speaking because I believe that Minister Hope has serious responsibility for the management of emergencies at national level and, in the perimeter of his responsibilities, at local level, as well as in my Molise, where health is paralysed by a ten-year police station and territorial medicine has been badly abandoned. Clearly, the faults are not ascribed exclusively to the Minister here present, being also the result of the damage caused by the wicked reform of Title V, reform that has led the politicians who have found themselves dressed as Health Ministers to entrench themselves behind the technicians to control the health plans, to determine where to open and where to close, to define the recruitment of the staff and its turnover. Politicians who in fact do not make ministers but - forgive me the term - the letterheads, always ready to ignore the demands of the territories. But let us return to us: while the Minister went on television to say that everything is fine, Madame Marquisa, the commissioner of the Molise Region has produced an exponential increase in the deficit of the regional health service, passed from little more than 15 million to 103 million. Not only that, but the technical table for the return of the health deficit has also found the lack of control for the extrabudget to the private associates, the several times reported delay for the new operating plan health and the lack of the plan Covid in a Region, the Molise, that has had an increase of victims between the first and the second wave of 1.700 percent, passing from little more than 20 to more than 400 deaths. Yet the Minister has always known what the gravity of the situation in my region was both by the commissioners and by the technical table and also and above all by means of the acts of inspection union. For example in Termoli a field hospital had been set up, but lacking doctors, the structure was not in condition to work. The Government should therefore have provided the answers necessary to ensure health care and dignity for Covid patients, as I mentioned in my question of 12 March. In addition, additional beds of intensive care were made in Molise with abyssal delays; we talk about external modules to hospitals, completed only last April 23 in Isernia and a few days before in Termoli and Campobasso, the capital. Mine is probably the only region in which no plan to reorganize and upgrade the hospital network in an anticoronavirus perspective has been implemented, as the Minister reminded me in my question of 26 March. The Molise suffered in the general disinterest for disorganization and lack of coordination between the authorities responsible for the containment of the pandemic, with quarrels and faults of endless responsibility between the president of the Region, the leaders of the Regional Health Company of Molise (Asrem) and the commissioner structure. I delivered a desperate reminder of this situation to Minister Hope on 21 January, when I even came to chain myself out of the Ministry of Health to demand attention to my region and my fellow citizens, ignored and treated as B-series people. I shall therefore vote in favour of the motion of censure which is being debated today. I conclude with a bitter reflection: in these long months of health emergency Italy has had the historic opportunity to change the relationship of strength between the State and the Regions, reaffirming the prerogatives of the central government on regional and regional anarchy. We could have drastically reduced the use of private health, which is now also used for non-specialised services, which could easily be followed by regional health services throughout the country only if the departments of Italian public hospitals were operated, thus ensuring the right to health enshrined in the Constitution. We could have reopened the hospitals that served and were not done; we could have hired permanently doctors and health workers that we needed even before the coronavirus and instead we hired them for a fixed time, as if they were no longer needed. Nothing has been done, not even the global pandemic has made us understand what Italian health care needs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u18	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u19	Mr President, the motion of mistrust that we are about to examine is clearly a pretentious act, imbued with demagogy and populism, but one that falls within the prerogatives of the opposition. It is undoubtedly true that the number of deaths in our country is among the highest in the world, but it is equally true that we were the first in the West to be hit by an unknown, sneaky and dangerous pandemic, which had no precedent. So we were the first to have this cleaver on our heads. We opened the door to other countries; some immediately followed our procedures, others first criticized the Italian system, then turned back and recognized its validity. We all know the example of the United Kingdom; first he aimed at flock immunity, then Boris Johnson introduced lockdown, like all other countries, and then it was the first country, since December 8, to vaccinate people. So it was a reverse. However, no one has asked for his resignation, no one has asked for the resignation of the British Minister of Health. It must be pointed out that when a phenomenon is in progress, such as what we are experiencing, we cannot do an experiment or even identify an exogenous variation that is easily measurable. There's no precedent. The only way to try to understand is by comparing different units of analysis and that's what happened. The systems put in place by Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom on the one hand (more restrictive lockdowns, less intensive therapies, less widespread territorial medicine), and Germany (soft lockdowns, at least until November 2020, 28,000 places in intensive care, capillary territorial medicine network) and Sweden on the other (no lockdowns and territorial medicine network) have given the same results, as the data show. Besides, nobody here says there's an important variant. They are just the variants, the English variant, the Indian variant lately and the Brazilian variant. They are the ones that have again tested scientists in finding solutions that were not there before; it was thought only of the Covid, not its variants. Even at European level there were no guidelines for the registration of pandemic data before the arrival of Covid; it had never happened, so no one had thought about it yet. This is another topic to consider. The indications of the World Health Organization have changed over time due to the evolution of the pandemic and leave room for different applications in different countries. In fact, each country has tried to do its best for its own population. The way in which we faced the pandemic in the early months of 2020 has been recognised internationally - I said this before - by individual states, by the WHO, by the international press. Now, according to colleagues, everything seems like a wreck, a failure, on all fronts. The management of Minister Hope was immediately lucid and strongly determined; its only guiding light was the safeguarding of health and public safety, in parallel with science. Probably mistakes have been made - it is undoubtedly - given the lack of knowledge and predictability of the pandemic phenomenon; but the political action of the Government, first Count 2 and now Draghi, and in particular of the Minister of Health has been directed to save the population, the most fragile, the one hospitalized in the health structures [[Applause]] and protect the National Health Service, which we must always thank; empty with the first vaccinations the structures that were now suffering to better face the offensive of the Covid. The governors of the regions themselves - let us remember - also of different political colors than that of the Minister have appreciated the spirit of collaboration and proactivity. Mr Zaffini said earlier in the illustration that the motion of no confidence is addressed to the whole apparatus. Then also the Regions are part of the apparatus, because we remember that to disregard the indications also on vaccinations were the Regions [[Applause]] You have seen what happened with vaccinations: everyone has vaccinated the categories that seemed most suitable to him. That category "other" then speaks for everyone. So if we decide to distrust, we have to do it with respect to everything that has been done and that is being done. Minister, we renew your confidence further, because in what you have done you have always taken into account - as you have always said - Article 32 of the Constitution, namely first of all the protection of health. It is obvious that the economy, unfortunately - we see it - has suffered greatly, is in parallel negative of what is happening. The apparatus may have made mistakes, we know, on the other hand there is no precedent, but I believe that mistakes must be learned. That is why I believe that compared to everything that we are writing down at the moment, that could have been done wrong - I imagine not by any means by malice - we have to recover it. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan may be a further opportunity to strengthen our health system, but there are many components and actors who must do so together with us, together with you, Minister, as long as we are part of this Parliament, which has always tried to make suggestions. We did so - first a colleague has emphasized it - also with agendas voted unanimously, precisely because we believed that the criticalities, I repeat, have emerged because there was no precedent. We wanted to make suggestions, so Parliament has done its part, even proactively, in relation to its work. I think we should take this into account. Today we are asking for the distrust of a minister who has been so busy, like everyone else, and I thank him personally because I had the idea of bringing Europe together as well. [[Applause]] because the vaccine contracts were chosen precisely by Minister Hope to avoid confusion. On the other hand, we all see the confusion that there is also only for the acquisition of vaccines, but also for green certificates; today we have given the opinion, so that at least Europe can go on together, in a uniform manner, as it has been so far. I'm sure we'll come out of this, but we all need to have a little conscience. We're doing all we can. It's true, you don't get anywhere on your own, we can all do it together. We therefore renew our confidence in our Minister Hope. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u21	Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, Minister, the senators of the Idea-Change component will vote against the three motions of mistrust against you. They will do so for three reasons, the first of which concerns the institution of individual distrust. We have always been opposed and are against the stew of responsibility that this institute produces. If there are no very serious cases, we believe that the government must have a single course and the responsibility must be of the first peers, who should indeed have the opportunity to form their own team. The reforms of the institutions are at a standstill, but there is no reason to take steps backwards if progress is not made. The second reason concerns your person, Madam Minister; indeed, it concerns the person first. As liberals we are against scapegoats; with his person they have been identified - it has also been said in this House - the Government, the Aifa, the Technical and Scientific Committee and so on, but we are for the responsibilities to be individual. In addition, at a time when memory, including the recent one, does not belong to politics, I would like to give you something: at the darkest moment in this Parliament, when the DPCMs were learned from television and we came to this House unaware of everything, you were one of the few who put your face on us and who sought a relationship with this House. We at Idea and Change this do not forget. At the moment there are no reasons that make reference to his person who can somehow eliminate that relationship of trust and also the feeling that we had at that darker stage for our country and darker than today for our Parliament. The third reason is that in exceptional times it is necessary to distinguish between a relationship of trust and a legitimate criticism, and we want to exercise a legitimate criticism of it. Perhaps more than anyone else, even for biographical reasons, I know how much his sensitivity is different from ours; we don't dress the same shirt but today we are part of the same national, because obviously the reasons of the club in the face of the tragedy we are living must be put aside. You will never hear from any of us about things we have no full notion of, such as those that refer to the scientific dimension of this pandemic. We do not discuss the burden that Italian citizens will have to bear; this is something that the Government has the right and the duty to determine first. However, we are debating how this burden should be shared. Minister, I have heard you think about the school that sounds more or less like this: that of the reopening of schools is not a zero risk, but we must bear it because the negativity that we and the students should suffer if we did not bear this risk would be even more serious. Well, this empirical and approximate reasoning, which we share, must always be done, even when there are the interests of categories that may not be nice to its part. And if it is determined that theaters and cinemas are reopened on condition that they maintain a distance of two meters, this same reasoning must be done also for the trattorias, perhaps those that are at such an altitude for which it is evidently difficult to think of being able to offer a service only outdoors. National unity is in fact also this: to take into account all interests, those that refer and are closer to their own sensibilities and those that are farther away. We take every right to criticize you on this, Minister, in the hope that you will be able to influence your decisions and those of the Government. However, we know how to distinguish these criticisms, which we believe to be legitimate, from the existence of a relationship of trust and for this reason I confirm that our vote will be against all three motions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u22	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u23	Mr. President, thank you for leaving me room. I apologize for the delay, but the Great ring link is blocked by the streetwalkers that are manifesting: outside of these classrooms there is someone who is doing more serious things than distrusting the Minister of Health in full pandemic. Minister Hope has been under attack for several weeks now; after the right of this country had dedicated itself to bringing down the Count Government with presumptuous excuses, now the attack has moved on Minister Hope. It is also quite a vulgar and obvious attack, since it makes use of all the broadcasts pertaining to that political part. Despite us, as the Italian Left, we are in opposition, I now announce that the vote on motions of distrust will be against, for various reasons. First of all, because there is no change Minister of Health in the middle of a pandemic; a Minister who, all in all, did what he could during a pandemic that - let us remember - hit Lombardy and the Regions ruled by the center-right. [[Applause]] If we were to make calculations, Italy would be at the last places as consequences of the pandemic and as number of deaths, if it were not for the beautiful Lombardy, which is supported so much on that political side. [[Applause]] The Lombardy Region has made almost everything wrong: it has wrong both in the containment of the first phase; it has wrong in wanting to keep open at all costs; it has mistaken the vaccination plan; it has even mistaken on the data and has complained with the Government because it has been placed in the red zone because of the wrong data. And let's forget about the investigation. Much has been said about the pandemic. True, the pandemic plan was probably not up to date, but it existed and the judiciary will check whether the disasters in Lombardy occurred because that pandemic plan was not respected by the Lombardy Region. Nothing justifies the absence of masks in a hospital, nothing justifies the decision to put patients with Covid-19 in the RSA, nothing, not even an unupdated pandemic plan. These are the basic measures and actions that a region must take when a pandemic arrives. Having said that, I hope that this House will deal with more serious matters. To Minister Hope I recommend, even if under attack, not to give in to that political part, which only wants to carry out a model of public-private health like that of Lombardy, which has failed. [[Applause]] It is a failure and we do not want to reply, so do not give in to that political part. You should explain to us, Minister Hope, the calculated risk; you must bring the calculations to this House, because when it comes to risk-benefit, you never know who the risk is and who the benefit is: very often it is the poor people who are the ones who always benefit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u24	Senator Toninelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as I heard that the Brothers of Italy presented a motion of distrust for the management of the Covid-19, I said to myself, as a Lombard, that it was my particular duty to speak in this Chamber. A party that asks a minister to pack and go home should not only have good reason to do so, but should also have solutions to the problems that the minister concerned does not think he has. Let's go, then, to see what's really going on. Those who today tear their clothes in the Chamber are part of those parties that have governed Lombardy for over twenty years; Lombardy has had negative records in the political management of health care, which has lined up tremendous errors and shortcomings, so as to make it the worst in Italy in all, unfortunately also in the number of deaths for Covid-19. They are the ones who govern Sicily, where for months the dead would have been first silenced and then coated to avoid bringing the Region into the red zone; a story for which he even resigned the council member to health Race, near Brothers of Italy. They are the same who govern Calabria, Basilicata, Abruzzo or Sicily, last for percentages of doses of vaccine administered. Is this their idea of competent in power? But behind those clear signatures on the motion of distrust there are many who have not put their name, but do not lose opportunity to attack daily the government of which they are part and with which they make decisions. They do so by collecting signatures against curfew, as if the other members of the government liked curfew, or as if they did not know that in a few days it will be reviewed. They do so every day through newspapers and TV, shamelessly deployed, when not even possessed by some parliamentarians of the center-right, always united and compact to bring back falsehoods and mystifications, forgetting that there are Regions of their political color where over the years they have made bad choices that have dismantled territorial health, leaving only rubble in the public and prairies for the private; Regions whose political class has been able to give birth, as the highest exponents, people like that Formigoni, condemned definitively for corruption, to which today the center-right is trying in every way to restore the vitality. [[Applause]] To them the vitality, to all the other Lombards instead the wait of a year in order to be able to make an oncology visit. I wonder what would have happened if this failed model, applied to their regions, had been applied to the whole country, perhaps with a Minister of Health like that Borghi della Lega who only a few days ago said that it would keep everything open since March 2020. Perhaps we would be in the same catastrophic condition that the Brazilian people are living, led by their friend Bolsonaro. This is the political curriculum of those who attack the government. Let it be clear that no one in the government must feel untouchable, but considering these detractors of his, Minister Hope, we can only be happy that they are not playing his role at this time. However, my intellectual honesty requires me to admit that some things had to be handled differently. I am talking about the lack of transparency about the failure to update the National Pandemic Plan and the chaos that has unleashed around the report on Italy drawn up by the WHO, first published and then immediately withdrawn. Unfortunately, we all know of a certain ministerial sloppyness and I quote the words of his deputy: since 2006 no one at his Ministry has updated the National Pandemic Plan. We cannot be silent about this unjustified delay. It is right, indeed, that when a Minister discovers facts and people who are not well within the Dicastery, he acts in transparency and he strives to resolve the situation with courage, careless of the risks. I did so, for example, by desecrating the notorious motorway concession contracts, with their annexes, for transparency towards citizens after years of secrecy. You do it, in your area, on the pandemic level. Minister, the Movimento 5 Stars knows that you have worked in conditions of absolute difficulty and we expect you to do so with even greater incisiveness, so that you can get out of this dramatic pandemic and return to living and working as you used to be, but we also expect maximum transparency from you, which is a prerequisite for the best policy. [[Applause.]] 10:34 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u26	The debate is closed. He asked the Minister for Health, Mr Hope. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 94 of our Constitution and Rule 161 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, the motions of mistrust presented by 33 senators are being debated today. I face this debate and the final vote of the House with respect for all parliamentary initiatives and with the awareness that I have served my country every day with discipline and honor, through these terrible months. [[Applause]] On September 5, 2019 I swore as Minister of Health to be faithful to the Republic, to loyally observe its Constitution and laws and to exercise my duties in the exclusive interest of the nation. Every day I held this oath, doing everything in my power, everything in my power, to defend the health of the Italians. It was and is my constitutional duty, the lighthouse that guides me in every choice and in every action [[Applause]] I reiterated the same oath on February 13, 2021 when, confirmed in this role by President Draghi, I continued to operate tirelessly for the country against this terrible virus. None of us should ever forget that the enemy is the virus and that we need to be more united than ever in fighting it, resisting the temptation to drag the pandemic onto improper ground. It is with bitterness that I see in recent weeks instead the political confrontation prevail, often even feeding a language of hatred that can never be accepted. The attempt to exploit the anguish of many Italians for short-sighted interests of partisan [[Applause]] This is profoundly wrong, because it produces enormous damage, not to me or to the government of which I belong, but to the entire country, which must instead remain united in such a delicate passage. This is what President Mattarella asked us when he proposed to all of us that we support the new Draghi government. I have always said this in every speech in Parliament and this will always remain my position: unity, unity, unity! I have always told the country and Parliament the truth and I will continue to do so. I therefore consider this debate to be an opportunity to respond promptly on the subject, at the most appropriate and rigorously, to disputes that have occurred with a certain disorder over the weeks. I will do so by rewinding the tape of the main events we have been through since the end of December 2019 and rebuilding the sequence of the most relevant decisions taken to deal with this strong, invisible and unknown virus. A unified reading, that holds together events, times, scientific evidence, international context, is fundamental; a decontextualized and partial reading explains nothing. Without going into too many preambles, I would like to focus immediately on the two main topics addressed in the motions: the 2006 Pandemic Anti-Influence Plan and the study of the Office of the World Health Organization (WHO) Venice Europe funded by Kuwait. The least relevant dispute concerns the failure to update the Pandemic Anti-Influence Plan. It is an issue that must be tackled with great seriousness, avoiding to bend it to political controversy, as unfortunately has happened in recent weeks, also because it comes from far away. All the motions underline that the Plan has not been updated according to the WHO guidelines for many years; they refer to those motions, to one hundred and eighty months during which seven governments alternated with several parliamentary majorities. [[Applause]] All the groups in this House, no one excluded, including those who presented the motions under discussion today, supported some of these governments. Too easy to pretend today not to see! [[Applause]] I have confidence and respect for the delicate work that the judiciary is doing. I firmly believe, convincedly, as an Italian citizen before even as a Minister, that anyone, no one excluded, has had responsibilities in these difficult months, from the WHO summits to the mayor of the smallest Municipality of our country, must be ready to always account for their actions. This is the strength and beauty of a great democracy like ours. As for political responsibilities, I do not have to defend myself. As I said, I swore to the Quirinale on September 5, 2019 and I can say with my head high that now the pandemic anti-influence plan is and has been unanimously approved in the Permanent Conference for the Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. What has not been done in many years has been achieved in a few months, just during my mandate. [[Applause]] And the approved document is an important document, especially for the highly operational approach and for the clear definition of the tasks, roles and responsibilities that are reported here. The work to organize and improve the country's response to the Covid has never stopped, even in the months when some lowered their guard. On 11 August, the document published by the Ministry of Health is the elements of preparation and response to the Covid-19 in the autumn-Winter season, while on 12 October, the manual "Prevention and response to the Covid-19: evolution of the strategy and planning of the transition phase for the autumn-Winter period" was published (also this document was unanimously approved in the State-Regions Conference). On the pandemic effect of 2006 and its application, I will come back later in my speech. First, I would like to address the case of the document from the WHO Europa office in Venice, funded by Kuwait, which was also mentioned in the motions tabled. First of all, we need to provide important information of a preliminary nature: during health emergencies, one of the main operating methods of the WHO and ECDC is the so-called country visit (visits to affected countries). A delegation composed exclusively of high-profile experts from these organisations goes to a Member State to carry out an independent technical verification; it is on the basis of this work carried out on the ground that some recommendations are defined to improve the response of the nation visited to the spread of the infection. So let us come to the facts. First: WHO and ECDC come to Italy for a visit from February 24th to March 4th, three days after the discovery of the Codogno cluster. The results of this mission are formally transmitted to the Italian Government on 12 March 2020. Secondly, the report to which reference has been made on the situation in Italy comes only in mid-May. Understanding the difference between the visit and the report is essential to give the right weight to the issue raised in the motions. The visit in fact produces a document with recommendations and indications, also operational, for the nation that is the subject of the mission. The report is a respectable study whose aim is to circulate in the scientific community data and analysis on the situation of the country and of each individual region. The WHO and the ECDC, with which we have had and have constant and positive reports, have indicated to us their operational recommendations following the visit of 24 February-4 March; those evaluations, although not binding, represent the indications to Italy that we have readily valued. The report at the center of the controversy is instead later and does not have an operational relapse in the management of the pandemic; in fact it has no indications of an operational nature. It is no coincidence that the visit takes place a few days after Codogno, while the document so much discussed is published on May 13, after the lockdown, when the curve of the contagion of the first wave had already been flattened. These are the important facts. The choice to publish and then withdraw that document is taken exclusively by the WHO, in its full autonomy, which we respect, also in its various articulations and in the internal debate that has clearly been held in this regard among WHO leaders in clear contrast with each other. But one thing is certain: there is none of the protagonists of this affair who say otherwise. The choices relating to the dossier are autonomous of the WHO. The WHO, which is part of the Venice headquarters that proposes the study under discussion, has clarified that the report has been withdrawn for factual inaccuracies; among the important errors, the one relating to the timeline of the epidemic in China. WHO Europe itself, in an official statement of 14 December 2020, stated that at no time did the Italian Government ask the WHO to remove the document. It seems to me to be a very clear position, which puts an end to any further speculation. [[Applause]] This is how we come to the reconstruction of the health emergency. I shall go over the main points of the enormous difficulties we have experienced and the measures we have taken. The Ministry of Health has always considered the seriousness of the situation. It would be very easy for me in this House today to point out that I cannot be criticized at the same time because I would have underestimated the seriousness of the situation and, at the same time, challenge myself for having always followed the principle of caution. [[Applause]] and that it is contradictory to complain about the absence of an effective virus containment strategy and, at the same time, to ask repeatedly to delete the most stringent measures taken by the Government, precisely to contain the virus. [[Applause]] On the contrary, I prefer to carry out a merit reasoning, based on facts, rather than on instrumental and emotional interpretations. To this end, I believe that, first of all, a fundamental reflection is needed in order to understand what has really happened in these months, starting with the contagion that struck Wuhan and the province of Hubei, China, at the end of December 2019. Why have major economic powers and structured health systems been so troubled by this virus? How could it have happened that even one of the world's greatest powers, the United States of America, had to see field hospitals mounted in a symbolic place like Central Park? Why, as we celebrate the successes of a science that every day makes progress in the contrast to mortal pathologies, has the entire planet been overwhelmed by a virus that was previously unknown? To these difficult, true, deep questions, the international scientific community has provided over the months answers that offer us a key reading of what happened in the world, in Europe and in our Italy. The underlying reason for our difficulties is one: SARS-CoV-2 is a completely new and particularly aggressive virus, with very different characteristics not only from influenza viruses, but also from those that in the past had manifested themselves, with a leap of species, from animals to humans. It is a very different virus also from the pandemic event of 2002-2003, caused by another Coronavirus, that of SARS, different - this is the point I want to highlight - for two fundamental characteristics. The first is that people with SARS largely had severe symptoms and were therefore easily identifiable, while SARS-CoV-2 is frequently the cause of asymptomatic and paucisintomatic cases. The second is that the peak of SARS infection was reached about a week after the onset of symptoms, so it was in time to isolate the patients who became contagious, while for SARS-CoV-2 the peak coincides with the onset of symptoms or even anticipates them. Viewed with today's eyes, these differences appear to be obvious, but on the contrary they are acquisitions to which the scientific community has come only after months. Suffice it to point out, for example, that for a long time the indication of all the world's scientific authorities has been to make swabs only to the symptomatics. The viral circulation of SARS-CoV-2, due to its characteristics, can be contained and then mitigated, in the absence of the vaccine, first with interventions that favor the distancing. In this crucial difference with previous viruses there is the reason and the guiding thread of our strategy of contrasting to the spread of infection. The lockdown, the red zones, the blocking of activities that cannot be carried out safely or that can result in assemblies, the limitation of unnecessary movements, the constant use of masks, are not decisions taken to complicate people's lives, but the only way, in the absence of the vaccine, to stem the spread of the infection. [[Applause]] It is the conclusion that the United Kingdom has also reached, which, after a first approach to the pandemic characterized by very limited measures, has implemented three different lockdowns, with the closure of all non-essential services and, in the last of these, lasted 61 days, even schools of every order and grade. These are measures that in Italy, since the beginning of 2020, we had to draw and implement, in the middle of a pandemic that hit us without warning, first in Europe, without there being a manual of instructions. That manual helped to write it, day after day, drawing on the accumulated experience. Faced with this completely new virus, it is quite clear that the 2006 Pandemic influenza Plan was not enough, nor were the subsequent recommendations made by the WHO. It was not a situation to sit in and wait for instructions. To save lives, new solutions had to be found and quick decisions made. That is why of the old Plan has been valued what was useful and functional to counter this new virus, such as, for example, the declaration of the state of emergency. Our technicians, however, have immediately assessed that there was much more to go: we were not limited to the bureaucratic implementation of a pandemic anti-influence plan not enough to respond to a completely new virus; we were not limited to a letter or a service order, just to keep the cards in order. For reasons of time, I cannot recall all the measures taken since before the pandemic was declared. On the other hand, I would like to mention three dates of 2020: 22 January, 28 January and 30 January. These are three documented passages that clearly show how we have not underestimated the situation. On 22 January both the WHO and the ECDC indicated, once again, that the risk of the virus reaching Europe was very low and there were no known cases in Italy. However, at the Ministry of Health a task force has been activated with the task of monitoring the evolution of the epidemic and evaluating suitable initiatives to address any critical issues. On 28 January 2020, when there were still no cases in Italy, after several telephone calls, I wrote formally to the competent European Commissioner Stella Kyriakides and to the Presidency in turn to request a meeting of the Health Ministers of the European countries, considering that international coordination action is necessary and not to be postponed. It is on my own initiative, on a proposal from Italy, that the first meeting on Covid at European level was held. On January 30, the same day that the Higher Institute of Health confirmed the first two cases of Covid infection in Italy (the two Chinese citizens visiting Rome hospitalized in Spallanzani hospital), I immediately proposed the declaration of the state of emergency, then deliberated on January 31 by the Council of Ministers. We were the first country in the world, together with the United States, to do so, and my order was adopted, which banned air traffic from China for 90 days. In those hours the same choices were made by Israel and the United States and we were the first in Europe to take this measure. These are only the very first stages of an emergency management process during which, in a thousand difficulties, we have never stopped, nor can we stop. We have learned that a pandemic is not a sprint, but unfortunately a marathon, which requires long-term hold and resistance. Let's stick to the facts. On 9 February 2020, just two days after its first meeting, the Scientific and Technical Committee began a reflection on the definition of possible scenarios in the event of the outbreak and decided to set up an informal working group with the task of analysing the measures to be taken in the event of a rapid increase in hospital admissions. On February 10 it is decided to work, even with the support of experts, models to respond to the different scenarios possible. On 12 February, for the first time, Dr Merler of the Kessler Foundation presented to the members of the CTS a document with data on the study of scenarios for the diffusion of Covid in Italy and impact on the National Health Service. The Merler study is one of the contributions that were acquired to the proceedings of the Technical and Scientific Committee and does not deviate from those deriving from other analyses or models examined and also elaborated by important research institutions such as the Imperial College in London. By autonomous decision of the CTS, the meetings were held with indication of confidentiality for the participants, but the Merler study, unlike what is claimed in the motions, was not secreted at all and is today published on our portal. Also thanks to that study we were able to react, equipped with some parameters of reference, to the first cluster of Codogno and Vo' Euganeo and then to the further acceleration in the circulation of the country. The reaction was always consistent with a serious risk assessment. It is on 1 March the circular of our Directorate-General for Health Programming which indicated that the regions would increase the number of intensive care posts by 50% and the number of pneumology and infectious diseases by 100%. A choice that, on that day, many defined excessive compared to the level of contagion in Italy. I would like to remind this House that, even after the establishment of the first red areas, many people thought that we were overreacting. We have taken strict measures, first in specific territories, and then, since 9 March, throughout the national territory. Those measurements allowed us to bend the contagion curve. In this brief and brief reconstruction there is an important feature of our work. I want to be clear: it is the work not of a minister or a government, but of an entire country, of our scientific community, of our doctors, nurses and health professionals, that we will never stop thanking. [[Applause]] Italy, our country, in those months when the whole world was wondering what to do, has indicated a road, certainly not perfect and not easy to implement, but a road that has been progressively followed by the majority of European countries and the world. This has also happened thanks to institutions that have been able to remain firm and compact to guide the emergency. That is why, personally, I have been and will always remain a thousand miles away from the polemics that damage the prestige and strength of Italy and make the work of all those who every day save human lives more difficult. That is why today it is wrong for those who believe that the spirit of responsibility and service demonstrated by so many in these months can be set aside as an old iron, perhaps together with caution. It's not like that, and I say it with all the strength I have. I understand the reasons for the political battle, but politics is not a game of chance on the part of citizens. [[Applause]] Even to those who make controversy every day I continue to answer: let us not divide the country on the pandemic, which is still in progress, unfortunately. It's not over, as someone would have you believe. Let's watch the drama of these days, of these hours, in India. We must never forget that defeating the virus is still the main interest of Italy and the premise of every economic and social restart. Together we humbly vindicate the work carried out by the Government, elbowed with the Regions, many of which are currently governed also by the subscribers of the motions of distrust. In these months I could have downloaded on the Regions responsibilities and limits that many have seen, but I never have and never will. [[Applause]] I have always collaborated with everyone, with no distinction and with the greatest willingness, because I think that in a great country there is no politics about a terrible epidemic. In a great country there is no politics about a great epidemic. [[Applause]] We handled an unprecedented health emergency in the West first. We did so with the limited knowledge and means we had, but in a dynamic and flexible way, always based on the evolution of data and scientific evidence. Before moving on to the final part of my speech, I would like to reply briefly to three other comments made on time in the motions. The first concerns the high rate of lethality of the virus in our country. On this issue too, I strictly stick to the figures. The first explanation, on which much of the scientific community is worth, is based on the historical composition of our population. There is no discussion about the fact that the older countries are the most affected and Italy is among them. Italy is the country that ranks first in Europe by median age (46.7), with a percentage of population over 65 over 23 percent and a percentage of population over 80 of 7.4 percent. Even widening the horizon of analysis, Italy continues to position itself in the very first places both with regard to the percentage of over sixty-five years old and with regard to the median age. A second key to reading lies in the high proportion of chronic diseases and comorbidity, particularly in the elderly. I remember, in this regard, three very important national data: the percentage of chronic degenerative diseases among the over sixty-five is 86.9%; 21.5% of the population is suffering from two or more chronic diseases; among the ultra seventy-five years the comorbidity stands at 66.6 percent. In the early days of the emergency, the testing capacity in Italy was limited, as they only made swabs on significant symptomatic cases. By 15 July 2020 we had 34,997 death cases and 243,506 positive cases at Covid. The seroprevalence study conducted by Istat and presented on 3 August 2020 estimated that, on that 15 July, the infected were actually 1,482,000, or about six times the number of cases diagnosed. Only later, as the tests increased, we were able to estimate more accurately the cases and the lethality. The death rate on the cases, starting on 16 July, was 2.2%. This is in line with that of the other major countries (e.g. in the last phase Germany stood at 2.3%). Only in the first wave did Italy actually have a higher rate of lethality, due eminently to the hardness of the impact of Covid in the regions of the North of the country. In the second wave, Italy's data remained in line with the European and global average. A second criticism that is addressed to me concerns the alleged partial establishment of the Special Assistance Continuity Units (USCA). In this regard, I quickly remember two figures. First, the Special Assistance Continuity Units were established on my own initiative, with article 4-a of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020: one for every 50,000 inhabitants, for a total of 1,200 USA throughout the national territory. I am pleased that the value of this is now also recognised by those who did not then support the measure. Second, the data transmitted by the Regions and Autonomous Provinces show that 1,339 USCA have been activated in the national territory today. Partial activation is therefore a singular interpretation of a situation in which more USCAs are activated than had been foreseen. They include 6.562 doctors, 2.105 nurses, 66 social workers, 134 psychologists and over 240 other professional figures. The opportunity is useful, also here, to thank them once again for the extraordinary and fundamental work they are doing every day. [[Applause]] Finally, I come to the last substantive answer. In one of the motions and also in an intervention carried out today it is stated that we did not elaborate any circular for the home treatment of Covid patients. It's fake, it's just fake. [[Applause]] The circular used so far was drawn up by our technicians as early as 2020 and a further update was issued on 26 April with a favourable opinion of the Higher Health Council. I would add that probably, during the year, it will still be updated - as is natural - on the basis of new scientific evidence. The significant activities to support the challenges opened by the pandemic over a year ago are many and documentable. The traces of these activities are under the eyes of anyone who wants to see. I would just like to remind you of a few other facts here. From the beginning of the emergency to April 2021 81,236 personnel units were recruited, of which 17,634 without a time limit (in particular, 20,192 doctors, 32,064 nurses, more than 15,900 socio-sanitary workers, as well as radiology and laboratory technicians, health assistants, biologists and other professionalism needed to cope with the health emergency). By Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020, the plan to upgrade hospital facilities on national territory for structural adjustment of departments was introduced, with significant results. In our country, beds in intensive care have increased by 106 percent. Before the emergency in Italy there were 5,179 beds. As of 1 March 2021, 9,018 are active and 1,667 others can be activated using the devices already transferred to the Regions. Our ability to administer swabs today is 100 times greater than last February and March. Then there were on average 3-000-3,500 swabs a day: today, between antigenics and molecular, we make a lot more than 300,000 per day. At the beginning of the emergency, the offer of devices and equipment produced in Italy was almost nothing, this is the truth. We have acted to support national production, to encourage reshoring processes, to rapidly reduce dependence on imports. In April 2020, we commissioned two large Italian companies to design and manufacture 50 machines capable of producing up to 30 million per day surgical masks of various sizes. The commitment to vaccines, which began in the spring of 2020, was intense in a changing and uncertain scenario. The signing of the first agreement with Germany, France and the Netherlands is in May and has opened the way for the work then carried out by the Commission. In every negotiation with the different manufacturers, Italy has been committed to guarantee to its citizens as many supplies of vaccines as possible. Could we negotiate better at European level? I believe so, but I remain of the opinion that it was right to move together and not to favour everyone against everyone in Europe who would not have helped us balance the strength of the drug multinationals. [[Applause]] Today I want to reiterate that Italy will continue to buy together with other European countries for the next few years. In the vaccination campaign we have committed considerable resources in terms of personnel, signing agreements that today involve hundreds of thousands of health professionals in vaccinations. In a few weeks, we will have secured all the age groups most severely affected by the virus. It is a coordinated effort that is not organized in a day, it is the son of an incessant teamwork. In this scheme, we have also tried to strengthen Italian research: I think of the ReiThera vaccine or the monoclonal antibodies to which Professor Rappuoli's team worked in Tuscany Life Science. I consider the commitment on these fronts unavoidable for at least two reasons: the first is to ensure the country's defences necessary even in the future; the second is to develop new synergies in the field of scientific research, the professionalism and talents present in our country must always be encouraged. In this regard, I shall now focus, in closing, on the fundamental criticism that goes through the three motions. It is not only the management of the emergency that is being criticized: the accusation would be that it has not strengthened our National Health Service and that it has not put in place during the pandemic an overall revival of Italian health. I think I have given more than a few figures to demonstrate the opposite view. But I intend to go beyond these numbers and look at the coming months and years, because the reform we are talking about is our real challenge and it is a first step and we can already do it thanks to Next generation EU. All of us - I am convinced - must feel obliged to question the underlying reasons for the structural weaknesses that the pandemic has exposed. In my speech, I have responded with facts to judgments which appear largely unmotivated. But I would like to say with great firmness that it is very clear to me as Minister of Health that weaknesses have also emerged within an extraordinary and generous effort, limitations of our National Health Service that we must have the courage to face openly. I am far from a gentle reading of the months behind us and the situation we are still in. Italy - this is the truth - has been weakened to the tragic appointment with the Covid because for decades, with mistaken and short-sighted choices, public health has been weakened several times. Health has all too often been considered a cost, while the main investment for our future, the key to growth and social cohesion - the National Health Service, the most valuable asset we have - has often been neglected. Territorial and social inequalities in access to care, care and rehabilitation have increased. We've been behind on digitization. And the Ministry of Health itself paid the price of the missed investments in the public administration. Just think that the organic endowment has gone from 2,520 units in 2010 to 1,699 in 2018 and only in recent months we are recovering with a number of significant assumptions. In many cases, it is only thanks to the professionalism and self-denial of our healthcare staff that we have managed to move forward, reporting results that we must never forget. Yet, we must not forget that spending on health care staff has been blocked for years to that of 2004 less 1.4%. Think about it carefully for a moment: spending on health care personnel has been blocked for years in our country to that of 2004 less 1.4%. How much distance between this raw and hard data and the rhetoric of the heroes that has often gone through our discussion. [[Applause]] And then, again, some have fueled over the years the illusion that private health could gradually replace public health. The opposite is true: only with strong public health is it possible to defend the universality of our National Health Service [[Applause]] and also create added value to private initiative, building positive synergies. Italy as a whole, with an awareness heightened by the emergency, today asks us for a stronger public health. Since the first day of my work as Health Minister, this has been my fundamental commitment. We are already working on the reform of territorial health, which we have designed in these months. It revolves around the idea of proximity - a crucial word for the health of the future - with clear and ambitious objectives that we have begun to discuss with the regions and the European Commission in recent weeks. Three first objectives: to bring home care to 10% of the over sixty-five, becoming the first in Europe for this figure. This is an unacceptable paradox: we have the oldest population in Europe and we have a completely inadequate home care figure. We want to reach 10%. Today the best models in Europe are Germany and Sweden with about 9%; we will use the resources of the recovery fund for this. And then, again, to build a community house for every 20,000 inhabitants and a community hospital for every 50,000 inhabitants; thanks to the recovery fund we will finance the first 1,288 and the first 381 respectively. This reform is the broadest horizon of my work and our work. It is the way to give a true answer to the sacrifices and sufferings of all. It is the most mature fruit of the commitment with which for months, without stopping, we work to bring Italy out of this crisis. I would like to recall once again in this Chamber the words of Pope Francis and that indelible image, which often comes back to our head, of Piazza San Pietro deserta. Worse than this crisis, there is only the risk of wasting it and we must not do so. [[Applause]] With the resources of Next generation EU we have the concrete possibility to finally hold together reforms and investments. This is the real challenge ahead of all of us, but such challenging challenges are not faced in scattered order. For this reason I insist: it is not the time of disagreements, nor of small interests. It is the time - as President Sergio Mattarella recalled for April 25 - to remain united in a joint effort. [[Applause]] Let's not divide the country. Let's not waste our energy. We set aside divisions and polemics and face the reconstruction that we owe to Italy with responsibility, honesty and strength. [[Stretch applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u28	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u31	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, we consider this motion to be legitimate, but politically and humanly questionable. It is wrong because it undermines the unity of the ruling class of the country - as Minister Hope said well - just when it is overwhelmed by the pandemic. It undermines the credibility of the institutions, first of all of the Ministry of Health, of Aifa, of the Technical and Scientific Committee, when the pandemic crisis is still far from exhausted. I also consider the motion to be humanly questionable because I believe that all of us, before we are politicians, are women and men. And I would never have wanted to be in the place of Minister Hope or of the many mayors, Presidents of the Region, regional councillors who, in these months, had to make decisions on which very often depended the life or death of hundreds of thousands of people. To ignore this human aspect in politics is - in my opinion - a huge mistake. [[Applause]] Similarly, I believe it is a huge mistake to turn the management of this terrible pandemic crisis into a permanent political confrontation. I hear lessons from those who speak of political exploitations when they criticized the action of a Government, but I see that the same attitude is repeated, in the individual regions of our country at alternate stages, by all political forces, as if the effectiveness of an action of embankment compared to the pandemic crisis was linked to the political color of the Government that carries out that action and, therefore, is more or less well affected depending on whether the president of the Region or city council member is or not friendly. Well, I believe that this attitude is absolutely irresponsible. [[Applause.]] That unity - to which Minister Hope referred and to which we too call - must always be valid in the face of the pandemic crisis. Minister, Madam President, today we would have liked to talk about something different, and not about this motion which has the full taste of being a political act. We would have liked to talk about health in this country, about the need for further investment in health. Despite the resources doubled in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, thanks to the action of Italy Viva [[Applause]] - I recall that the investment envisaged in the first version was EUR 9 billion and increased to 20 billion, opening a political crisis on this - we are the only political force that continues to shout that it is not enough: we need more, given the condition of difficulty in our health care. And a difficulty emerged clearly with this pandemic. If there is only one positive element of the pandemic - if you can say so - it has brought out the criticalities of our health care and showed us the points where it is possible to intervene. Mr President, today we would have liked to talk about digital health and the benefits it can bring to health as a whole; about too long waiting lists; about the preventive action that should be taken; about the precarious work that many doctors and nurses are forced to do; about the role of pharmacies and pharmacists; about medical sports. We would have liked to talk about medical specialties; too many doctors are unemployed despite deficiencies in the lane. We would have liked to talk about strengthening territorial medicine; about the serious conditions of our RSA; about the unevenness throughout the national territory of our health system; about the dramatic effects that this pandemic has had on people with disabilities; about the risk that many people (cancer patients, heart disease patients, neurological patients) are facing a condition of difficulty and neglect because of the pandemic. We would have liked to talk about how to make more swabs in our country, as is happening in Britain; about a plan of vaccines that is increasingly effective and that is finally having strength, but that can always improve; about research on vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, the chain of the health industry. We would have liked to have talked about all this, Mr President, and the Minister did so, unfortunately only at the end of his speech because he was forced to defend himself rather than to talk about the projects that we can carry out. Let us discuss anything else because it has been decided to present a motion of no confidence not to Minister Hope: Brothers of Italy present a motion of distrust to the League and to Forza Italia. [[Applause]] Today the theme is to politically bring out the contradiction of political forces that are supporting a health minister who is the same representative of the previous government in the field of health: this is what we are talking about, Mr President. We are forcing this country to see the political class divide simply to earn some percentage points [[Applause]] with respect to allies who have shown a sense of responsibility. I want to underline the positive attitude that Forza Italia and Lega are having precisely because of the difficult position they must maintain, of support for this Minister who is in continuity with the previous Government. I therefore believe that the efforts of these political forces must be accompanied. Staying here - I've heard it also in interventions of some political forces that instead were part of the old majority - to emphasize the contradictions and difficulties of the political forces like Lega and Forza Italia, that instead have decided to challenge them, I think it is a strategic mistake that is committed against the country. [[Applause]] Mr President, we must of course thank the political forces that both the Count Government and the Draghi Government are supporting Minister Hope, and have done so in all circumstances in which it was possible to do so, even when they did not share his initiatives. They did so knowing that in that moment the country was in question, the strength of the country and the health management that has so much influence on the economy, because it is another spy that has turned on now with the pandemic: we realized how to make the health care work means to make the economy of our country work. [[Applause]] From this point of view, supporting Minister Hope today means supporting President Draghi and this Government that is dealing with the economic emergency. [[Applause]] Therefore, it is no wonder that the political forces who voted for the motion will vote for the Draghi Government. Instead, we have a duty to administer the country and do it for the best. Minister, I also express my solidarity with you, as well as our political support, because - as you said - there is no manual for managing a pandemic crisis. The difficulties you have encountered are objective and we believe that you have carried out your task with commitment and dedication. With the same determination that we are calling for no vote on the motion of no confidence - and we are going to vote no - we are going to call for a Commission to investigate everything that has happened in the management of the pandemic, without replacing the judiciary (there are ongoing investigations that will have the results over time). But surely understanding the mistakes that have been made, in order to avoid committing them in the future, is a duty of this political class. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u34	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Minister Hope, since the beginning of this pandemic, half of the European Health Ministers have left - last but not least, the Austrian Health Minister - for the great stress he had on his shoulders because of his responsibility. In fact, the pandemic found us all unprepared, testing the institutions of all the countries of the world, called to an unprecedented challenge. Everywhere, in the beginning, mistakes were made: the Great Britain of Boris Johnson, today so admired for the vaccination plan, had a catastrophic beginning with the speech on immunity of flock; Sweden, with its plan of individual responsibility, had to rethink itself; not to mention the United States of Trump or Brazil of Bolsonaro, with a record of deaths. Italy was the first country hit in Europe and it must be recognized that, all in all, it has reacted adequately, so much so as to become a model for other European countries. Despite this, there are three motions of distrust against the Minister of Health, because it would be inadequate and not up to it. Why? For the pandemic plan that had not been updated since 2006, i.e. thirteen years before Hope became Minister. Above all, this criticism comes from those who wanted to close one day and the other wanted to open; from those who for a time refused to wear the mask, even here in the Senate. [[Applause]] The criticism comes from a party that on March 1, 2020, in an English video, told foreign tourists: The images and news that come from Italy these days suggest a country completely paralyzed (...). But reality is another. (...) people are happy and the weather is fantastic. A normal situation. (...) Do not be afraid to come to Italy. It comes from a party whose exponents did not close their discotheques because - I quote - I am sure that contagion does not automatically mean illness. That's what all the numbers say. No one can believe that the discos are the vehicles of the contagion. Honestly, I am glad that in this terrible year Minister Hope has been there to protect the health of this country and not one of those who today support its inadequacy. [[Applause]] Of course, we have also criticized some of his decisions. And we did so at the beginning, when there were no differentiations between regions; we criticized the December measures on movements between small municipalities and, even in these weeks, we believe that, with the help of the vaccination green pass, we must take a step forward on the places indoors. But we have always done so with a constructive attitude, in full respect of the difficult role of the Minister. In hindsight, it's easy to say how things had to be done. The truth is that these motions are only yet another episode of a dispute entirely internal to a political side; a competition played riding a moment of absolute tiredness of the citizens, to make those who put their face on the measures to control the infection of the scapegoat of all evils (of the pandemic, economic suffering, restrictions and closures); to make the Italians believe that there is another way to protect health, without ever saying which; to try to hit one of the Ministers most appreciated because the return to normality is perhaps near, thus trying to head the exit from the pandemic. Minister Hope may have made some mistakes, but it was what most of all put his face even with unpopular decisions, in an era when many decide only on the basis of surveys. He warned against the risks of the virus when others would wink at No Vax and Deniers. [[Applause]] The motions of mistrust are completely unfounded. Therefore, I announce the Group's vote against the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u37	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor and thank you to Minister Hope for coming to this House to defend his work. Sure, he came to us alone. It is the first time in my long political career that I see a Minister, the subject of a motion of distrust, left in the company of a single other Minister, without the proximity of the entire Government, as if the problem were only Hope, as if it was only him today that risked the chair. We, dear Minister, have tabled a motion of no confidence in you, knowing well the outcome that would have resulted, for goodness sake. Even those who have heavily accused him, like the center-right parties in the course of his work as Health Minister of the previous Government, will vote for you today. Don't worry, you don't risk the chair. But ours is a stone thrown into the still pond of this government in front of the pandemic, of which we would have liked the entire Government to become aware. But we see it: the underestimation that strikes you, that is left alone - look at it: it is alone - is the same underestimation that the previous Government, and also this Government, has of the pandemic. Read our motion: the main accusation that we address to you is that you have kept the lie, the inadequacy and the inability manifested by the Italian Government. It's not just you, but you play that role and in politics it's like in football teams: it's up to the coach to pay if the team goes wrong. And if the team goes wrong in terms of the pandemic, in any government in the world, I don't say that you should do it - it wouldn't be in that chair yet - but at least, when the government changed, an act of courage - you do to say - had to make sure that you gave way to others. It did not happen because it is convenient for you to be Minister of Health. Do you know who Simone from Cirene was? You have a secular culture, atheist, I would say, since you historically belong to the Marxist left. Probably, however, he knows well the story of that poor man who passed there by chance, when Christ, who is the Italian people today, had the cross on his shoulders and the centurions took him and said: Bring the cross. Today you are a Cyrenean: it is the name that is given to the one who must bear the weight of an entire Government inadequate, incapable, confusing towards the pandemic. [[Applause]] In motion 341, however, we also refer to your behaviour: you, Minister, lied knowing that you were lying and you continue to do so. [[Comments]] No? Then come to the Chamber, don't leave him alone and don't leave four cats to comment when I make a specific accusation. You lied knowing that you were lying here too, even when you referred to all the groups here, including those who tabled the motion. Do you know that the obligation to modify the pandemic plan comes from 2013 or is it so ignorant that it doesn't know? The plan was launched in 2006 and 2013 for the first time it was said to be updated. The Group to which I belong has never been to the Government, but neither have the previous right-wing groups been to the Government since 2011. So you also lie in this House, as you lied - because you did - when your Ministry gave false data to the World Health Organization. I don't say it, but Bergamo prosecutors say it, the ones who listened to it. You also said that the Zambon file is indifferent, but how? In the same way you have hidden what according to the Director-General of your Ministry is the secret plan that existed on 20 April 2020 and has never been revealed. To her, therefore, we contest above all what in other countries of the world would lead to immediate resignation: the lie to cover the inefficiency of her Ministry and of the governments that have led her to assume that role [[Applause]] I don't want to push your hand too hard, because I realize you're a scapegoat, you're guilty because you're inadequate, and not because you're politically able to decide anything, just as you haven't decided and you still don't decide. I'm not talking about the past. I'm not talking about delays. Mr President, don't take the floor all of a sudden, tell me when I have one minute to go. Next to the inadequacy of the beginning, like his book in which he said he had already beaten the virus and then had to withdraw, I let go of all the shortcomings past to talk about the current ones. Where's the vaccine plan? We are farther back than any European country, and not just the United Kingdom, which has already taken up normal life. I am not talking about Israel, which alone has already reached records that we do not have. I'm talking about our other peer countries. We are the last - as Mr Zaffini said before - and we have all the possible negative records on this pandemic at European level. Shall we talk about curfew? Who is the colleague talking to the Minister, Mr President? Let the Minister listen, he's the main character today. At least today let him play the lead, he never does. I was talking about the vaccination plan and the curfew. Mr President, do you think it is still possible to argue that the virus is effective when there is darkness and is not effective with light? Is it effective when there are few people circulating at night and it is not in trams, metro, planes, schools, everywhere? It's possible that shopping malls can be crowded, but at night, can't they? There was a song, but the night wasn't; we arrived at the cabaret, dear Minister. We asked - as other political forces also asked for an hour, being inside the government - an extra hour... President Senator La Russa, your microphone light is flashing. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). We're a minute away. I said they asked for an extra hour, and you didn't even give it to them. I have respect for the friends of the League and of Forza Italia, who have agreed to be in this Government; I do not see many of them today in this House, but they should vote. I'll check on those who have the courage to do so. They should trust you and I will check one by one those who will have the courage to do so and who will no longer be able to say anything. But to you, Minister, I give you a piece of advice: today I receive the fake solidarity of your majority, for what little they will give you, but tomorrow you make the nice gesture, the first of your career as Minister... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u40	MALPEZZI (PD). Minister, you have set out the facts with great clarity, logic and precision. We didn't need this, but thank you. Unfortunately, I am afraid - and I am sorry to say so - that those who would need to listen carefully to the facts you have put forward can then say that they are not doing anything about them. When a motion of no confidence is presented to a minister, he who presents it does so with the precise political objective of weakening a government. It is therefore clear that, in the face of a legitimate motion, but clearly instrumental because the objective is political, the logic that you have set out of the facts, the data, the contents and those that have been these months is not relevant. It is of interest to us, however, to reiterate that you have had only one polar star in all these months: Article 32 of the Constitution; always the only polar star that has brought caution and attention and that has led us to live for many months in an unprecedented situation, never before. They have been months - as you have also remembered - without instruction manual. Italy was the first in Europe and in the Western world to experience this dramatic experience; we all remember that. Maybe we should remember that more. We should really remember all those days together, when, without any instruction manuals, a government was asked to close a country to secure the lives of citizens, to secure their health. [[Applause]] When, in the history of a country, has a government ever had to find the list of activities to close? Normally you have those to revive the country. Instead, we were called, precisely to secure our country, to something that other countries began to look at, because then unfortunately this happened to them too. The instruction manual wasn't there. But there was the polar star of health protection. There was a willingness to give as much as possible answers to the people who were suffering, who lost their loved ones, who saw their working situation put at risk. However, the choices that have been made - and we should always remember this - have been made against scientific data. The choices made by this Government, the choices made by Minister Hope and the choices made by the previous Government were based on the numbers, which were dealt with in a technical-scientific manner by the Technical and Scientific Committee, and I say this because we also have to remember it here. Even today we are acting exactly the same way, for whatever choice the government is called to make. [[Applause]] So we work - as the President-in-Office also said - with all the forces that are part of the majority, in line with decisions that are common, because they come out of common tables, and are inspired precisely by rational choices, in line with the principle of precaution and caution that has always guided the action of the Minister. Minister, it is not true that you are left here alone. It is we who leave the opposition alone in this instrumental attack and leave to the opposition the dangerous game against the Government, at such a delicate moment, as that of restart and reconstruction. I remind everyone - if anyone has forgotten - that there are still contagions and we are in emergency. Attacking in full pandemic emergency the Minister of Health, who is working for the health security of the country, may not be so much as responsible. [[Applause]] Minister, the consistency that you have kept has led you to always defend the same line, without being influenced by the choices of those who, in full pandemic, went to conferences organized by the negationists; you claimed the right not to wear the mask - it still happens today - and spoke of daily bulletins as media terrorism. We would like to recall that the only non-scientific and ideological positions are those of those who, at the time, with 500 deaths a day, campaigned against restrictions and threw gasoline on the fire of discontent, while the government was working on the most dramatic health emergency of the post-war period. I repeat that the line was unique and inspired by the utmost caution, in order to protect the health of citizens. We have gone on in this way and that does not mean that we do not want to protect the productive categories. Parliament is doing well every time it tries to underline its needs and demands, in what must be a dialectical relationship, which also leads to the raising of demands. However, we always remember clearly that economic recovery also passes from what our country is put in security. We always say this: we want to open so that we don't close again. [[Applause]] There is no closure party and no reopening party. Let's say things as they are: the country, thanks to the agreement of all the forces of majority, has decided to proceed to gradual reopenings, taking what - as Prime Minister Draghi reminded us yesterday - is a calculated and reasoned risk. And we have also made different choices compared to those of other European countries. We know that our goal is to start again with full security. But if we had listened to those who, in recent months, denied the second wave and shouted to reopen - as is being done today in this House - we would still be locked up, with the epidemic out of control. There are countries in other continents that are experiencing these dramatic situations, resulting from a certain irresponsibility in management. Today we should focus solely and exclusively on the vaccination campaign, overcoming regional disparities; by securing the most fragile part of the population, because this means breaking down the curves of contagions, hospitalizations and deaths. In a country experiencing the worst post-war crisis, the responsible forces act looking to the good of the country, and not to the small instrumental polemics. Enough of this curfew thing, please! [[Applause]] I'll tell Senator La Russa, stop! That's not the point. It is already written that, based on the data, all choices will be reviewed [[Applause]] We cannot forget how things are, because otherwise we try to hit the government, but in reality we hit the citizens, sending confused messages. We ask everyone: the country should remain united, as asked by President Mattarella. And I, Minister Hope, remember the call a few months ago to unity, repeated three times in this House: unity, unity, unity! We continue to reiterate this because it must be clear to everyone that questioning a minister at such a complex stage means wanting to scientifically weaken the action of a government, when today the opponent is not the Government, but the virus, which should be the opponent of all. President, Minister Hope, we shall vote against motions of mistrust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u43	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Minister, if the use of motions of mistrust could be eliminated, your precise answers would have been withdrawn, showing that they were unfounded. This, unfortunately, does not exist because a political fact prevails here: first of all the instrumentality, but colleagues - let's face it - also a certain competition between the League and the Brothers of Italy in the field of surveys. Minister, I believe that today's debate will have the opposite effect of the wishes of the proposers, i.e. a clear confirmation of your work and of your seriousness. As Senator Quagliariello said, you put your face in it, you were in the front line and you never went back, showing a great sense of the institutions and the role of the State. The sense of the State is an essential reference, as President Mattarella reminds us and as President Draghi reminded us yesterday. Colleagues, it is unique that, a few hours after we voted and discussed the most important act of the next thirty years, of the historical turning point of Italy, we are discussing this motion of distrust. It is a sign of the limit of politics, of the fact that politics cannot make a qualitative leap. We have gone through a very difficult year because of the dramatic results, first of all in terms of loss of life, and then for families, jobs and businesses. The crisis is profoundly going through Italian society. I find that to represent all these problems and to download them on Minister Hope is, before an injustice, objectively an idiocy. I got to say no one was prepared for this pandemic. Of course, there have been limits, that we have to investigate, that we have to discuss, that we have to understand, but do you really think that all the limitations that have been there do not relate to the history of the last 20 years of the National Health System? Have you really forgotten how many - including many of you - said that health care was too high, was it a waste and that it had to be cut? [[Applause]] Have you forgotten? Do you really think that the theme of the pandemic plan 2006, of the pandemic flu plan, would have produced the turning point for the results of this very hard campaign? Colleagues, to prove that no one was prepared, I would like to read some statements that have accompanied us since the beginning of the pandemic. I will use the words of an authoritative exponent, Senator Salvini, who dates back to 21 February 2020: "We need to close everything. It's crucial. If they didn't do it yesterday, now we're gonna shut it down. 24 February 2020: This is not the time for half-measures. Radical measures are needed. Three days later, on February 27, in a live Facebook: "The country sinks. With the Legist Governors - but there are no Governors in Italy! - we agree that all activities must be reopened, return to normal. He's your leader speaking. Again, Salvini: "We ask the government to speed up, reopen, help and support." March 26, "Piazzapulita", La7: "I said at the end of February that everything had to be reopened. It was obviously a scientifically wrong assessment. In this error, however, it has fallen back on us. Let's move on. Let's talk about the second wave. 14 July: The Covid-19 was a hospital emergency that is now over. The numbers are under control. I don't have the mask and I don't wear it. But is it normal that we have a daily infection report? This is media terrorism. Then, the grain. He said that there is no second wave and then on October 16 he said: What has been done in these six months to prevent the second wave? I wouldn't want anyone to sit down in these months hoping for the good Lord. Now, it seems clear to me that no one can give lessons with regard to contradiction. Minister Speranza, I really say this with my heart: luckily for the Italians that the government was there you, who presided with the bar straight, making difficult choices, problems that certainly weighed you, even personally. [[Applause]] Colleagues and colleagues, throwing stones can serve a partisan political interest, but it is not serious for the battle we face. Let us then do something useful in this debate. What did this pandemic teach us? He taught us that the cuts were wrong, that it was absurd to block the staff. He explained to us that the universal value of the Public Health System is an uncancellable value for this country. [[Applause]] He taught us that the State-Regions theme is not merely related to Article 117 of the Constitution. The State-Regions theme is based on a problem of cooperation. It has been since 1978, since health reform, that the regions have been responsible for the management of health. The problem is to build a plant, to give strength to the Ministry of Health, which is able to give directions, to produce, in the fundamental effort of these months that await us with the recovery, that essential reform. So, territory, primary care and territorial medicine. Let's also say that in recent years many regions, many of which are governed by the right, have destructured the territorial system. [[Applause]] Now we have to go back. It's not a problem, we don't dump responsibilities, we argue... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u46	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking as a doctor and not as a majority politician, because perhaps I should say other things. I'll say the same things I've been saying for over a year. It was on 22 April 2020 when, in a statement of mine in the Commission and also in this House, I pointed out the chaos and drama that the country was experiencing because of a very specific reason, namely the absence of an updated pandemic plan. Today, April 28, 2021, more than a year later, it would be too easy for us at Forza Italia to say: we told you. Yet we are here discussing the motion of no confidence against the Minister of Health, reconfirmed in the Government that my Group supports for the great trust it puts in President Draghi and, more importantly, for the PNRR that we voted with conviction yesterday. My 68 questions (all of them), which have been tabled since the dramatic emergency broke out, have never received an answer. Under the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the oral question is put to the agenda no later than the 15th day after the presentation, while questions with a written request for a reply are answered by the Minister within 20 days. These are a plausible example of the fact that the Ministry of Health was there and there is something wrong; I do not know whether the Minister or perhaps the very powerful Chief of Cabinet (and at this point I refer to the statements of the Undersecretary Sileri, which I totally agree with), or perhaps because of the former Secretary General several times called into question. We started with the autopsies (question to my first signature of May 12, 2020), after three circulars of the Ministry that blocked them throughout Italy. Why? Never had an answer. Yet it was thanks to the autopsies that it was discovered that interstitial pneumonia was due to a disseminated intravascular coagulation that, if treated immediately, would perhaps have made useless the purchase of thousands of fans even taroccati as is demonstrating an investigation by the judiciary; and again, 27 May 2020, in another question of mine: request of a national program for the finding of reagents. No reagents, no swabs; 19 June 2020: additional pandemic request. We had to track, test, isolate and treat, as was done in the Senate. The Senate is a small company where 3,000 people circulate a day: thermoscanner at the entrance, swabs for four days a week for a year, immediate isolation of the positives and their contacts, masks (at the beginning of his statements deemed not indispensable) and distance. In one and a half years, out of 321 senators 40 positives with immediate treatment and no complication. Couldn't one learn and take an example? Tracking, testing, isolating and treating: this had to be done everywhere. Minister, I would like your attention since you are the protagonist of this morning, thank you. But no, secret meetings of the Scientific and Technical Committee and secret acts. I remember the interview of the director-general of health planning of the Ministry of Health Urbani on "La Stampa" on February 22, 2020. There was a document, with three-degree scenarios, passed, to our requests for information, as a simple internal relationship, while of this you had warned, after, the Regions (it always passed, wrongly or rightly, as scapegoats). I am thinking, for example, of the audio with the Lombardy Region of 4 March in which it is said: you decide whether to close. And you're not done with the consequences we all know. No, it was better to transfer Zambon when he pointed out that Italy was completely unprepared for the tsunami that overwhelmed us, with the app Immuni totally useless and the survey on seroprevalence at 4.5 million euros a huge flop. It is true, Minister, you have been unfortunate, you are a very good politician, with authoritative support, not prepared for what happened after your appointment in 2019. More unfortunate, however, were the Italians. There was chaos: there were no reagents, no personal protective equipment, no helmets for doctors. We have therefore imported uncertified material while our companies, which had decided to convert their production, had to export to Europe, since we preferred overseas material. In all this drama, he found time to write a book, already, because in September we were an example to follow. The book on the defeat of the virus is published by Feltrinelli, in Italy it has been withdrawn but it is for sale on Amazon in Spain and France. I quote some sentences like: I closed the first lockdown, to impose the culture of the left, you could not let the Italians think that there were Regions in which you lived better; you will come out in a few months, it will be the dawn of a new world, without inequalities. Minister, when you return home to your children at night, do you ever think about the 70 precarious children of Agenas that you have left home without salary since 31 December for your spoil system, for your political idea, for a political whim? I repeat, 70 professionals with more than ten years of service in the agency that you are dismantling left at home. The contracts to 3,000 navigators have been renewed, thousands of employees have been properly stabilised in the last year in the public administration and does not recognize to 70 professionals what is due to them? Since thousands of people have not been saved for lack of organization, at least 70 families have been saved from hunger. Yet it is not a problem of economic coverage, because in Agenas' provisional budget there are more than EUR 350 000 for external advice, new recruitments are being made, and this has already been reported by the Court of Auditors. Yet, on March 13, 2021, to a question of mine, he replied that the Ministry was dealing with it (here are the newspapers, which speak of purges and facilitations of friends denounced by the unions of Agenas). Yes, some inaccuracies, some lies he has told; lies about contracts for vaccines, about War and the WHO report, even about human medicines for animals, interview and reports (families will save 90 percent). Beyond the fact that the news of the signature was put in the Journal, on the other hand to a question from a European Member, to the health commissioner Kyriakides replied that the Commission will clarify the matter with the competent Italian authorities. We know that from 28 January 2022 the European Veterinary Medicines Directive will enter into force (here is the Annex), so it is allowed to use human medicines on animals only when there is no alternative veterinary medicine: how did it come to mind? Answer us also about the news given by his staff for which at the end of May Italy will return in lockdown, at least deny them. Luckily, the guidelines for home treatment have been out for a few days, another question that has been lying for months without answer. The first guideline was to give the tachypin, a little embarrassing. Give a signal, Minister, approve the amendment Agenas, approve that of doctors in quiescence, we need people, doctors, professionals who vaccinate. I assure you that our remarks have never been political attacks. [[Applause]] but shouts of alarm of those who lived in the hospital, in the houses, in the streets. We will not vote in favour of the motion of no confidence in you. Forza Italia has never voted for motions of individual distrust, except in two cases of the previous Government, but they were human cases and we did it for them. For you we will not vote for it, not because we have a lot of faith in you, but because we have it towards President Draghi we support and when we decided to support your Government we said: President Draghi, you are the conductor, even if you will keep some of the old players will have to change the score, because the score played by the previous government does not belong to us and will never belong to us. [[Applause]] President Draghi is the guarantor of the programmatic declarations with which he started this Government of the change and the change of sheet music and it was seen immediately in the field of health, since it has reduced a little' the power of the technical-scientific Committee and has made immediate and important substitutions, beginning with the supercommissary Arcuri. Let's hope so. This is the last warning to the sailor, that is to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u49	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, we have heard you very determined and very strongly in your speech, and we are very pleased that this means very likely that you will be the first to support the Pandemic Investigation Commission and the international implications that the League, together with Forza Italia and Idea and Cambiamo, will present during the day. The appeal is clearly addressed to all parties; having nothing to hide, I think there will be no problem going in that direction. [[Applause.]] [[Comments.]] We also tell the colleagues of Brothers of Italy, who I imagine on the matter will rightly claim the Presidency, that perhaps it is much better to work on the Committees of Inquiry than to present motions that perhaps have more the intention of putting the League and Forza Italia in trouble than the Minister Hope. [[Applause]] We say that because at least it stays in the record. However, we use the opportunity that oppositions give us to discuss some issues in a polite and reasoned way. [[Brusio]] I beg my colleagues, please, to be quiet. I think we need to get out of the "open-tourists" debate, Minister Hope. Politics, as we have seen during the pandemic, is actually divided because science is also divided, experts and technicians are divided. In fact, we have many experts who say that lockdown is useful to protect the elderly and fragile, but we have more than 50 studies in the world, including the last of two professors at Harvard and Stanford Universities, who say instead that lockdown did not actually achieve its goal and that perhaps it was necessary to use other tools to protect the elderly and the fragile. Then, from the moment it seems clear to everyone that no one in the world has the truth in his pocket, in our opinion, the best way to try to find solutions that can guarantee a balance between the right to health and the right to work and the economy, is to dialogue and confront, also listening to different positions to learn to understand what the main way to face this difficult pandemic can be. Dialogue. Minister, you made a call to unity. We agree, but is the unity to which you refer the unity of all the positions of the country or does it claim that the whole country is united in its positions? There's a difference. [[Applause]] Minister, when the data gets worse, the League, Forza Italia and others are the first to share the fact that the Government has to operate restrictions. If, however, the figures improve, Minister, we expect that you too will be willing to meet and try to open up. [[Applause]] , slowly, gradually, those that are all activities. Senator Errani is right. We too, at a certain time, said that it was necessary to close down. Of course, if the data gets worse and disastrous, we're the first to say it. You're right, Minister, to say you're careful. There is the Indian variant; what happens in India must be teaching for everyone. Two months ago we celebrated it as the nation that had achieved immunity from flocking, today there are thousands of deaths a day. It is right to use caution, but on the other hand, Minister, let us also try to meet and not pretend that there are no economic activities, some citizens, some people who are suffering so much from the closures. [[Applause]] This is what we are asking for: a little common sense, the right means of what policies are; balance, confront each other. You often, Minister, with your character - and I have had direct experience of it in a resolution, if you will remember, as you will remind me of what you have said - you put yourself on the issues for which you must be right. And that doesn't just happen today, it also happened in the old majority because your colleagues tell me. We must use greater flexibility, a form of mind brought about by dialogue, by comparison. If there wasn't Dragons when we could've had a reopening plan! [[Applause]] There is awareness; of course, as my colleagues remind me, on the input of the League, right. Among other things, here too we should discuss why, since we are all in favour of reopenings, in the end you also leave open to the League on this issue. [[Applause]] Well, that would be something on which it would be necessary for some of you too to start thinking, as if the reopenings were of one party rather than another. As Draghi says, calculated risk. This is what we ask for: risk calculated gradually, with caution, with balance; we repeat it. But, Minister, when you tell me about politics not to use politics in the pandemic, I'm sorry, Minister, but I think of a few things. I can think of some of his positions that, more than dictated by scientific evidence, seem to me dictated by the fact that I do not give it to the League and Salvini. I'll explain. Let's take the question of the restaurants closed for lunch. In February-March we were here in Rome - Lazio was a yellow area - and at lunch, when it happened, we also went to the restaurants indoors and the data were much worse than today. I do not understand this firm position that today should only open restaurants that have outdoor spaces when the data are better than in February-March. What's changed? What is the scientific evidence for which in March, with worse data, we were told that we could stay indoors and now, with the best data, we cannot stay indoors? [[Applause.]] I don't know. I don't see much scientific evidence. Let's get to curfew. Minister, no one has said free all; we have understood that if we say so, in fifteen days we risk closing down, nobody says white zone, but if instead of 22 - colleagues, silence, please, I have listened to you - it was 23, place that you can always seek mediation, meet the restaurateurs so they do the double turn, would it be so out of the ordinary? No, it seems more of a spite, more of a scorn than a real motivation to meet what are the real political issues. [[Applause]] The same must be said for shopping centres: in the draft of the decree-law of reopenings it was expected that from May 15 they could reopen also on holidays and prefectures and then, suddenly, in the boiled text, the norm disappears: the famous hand of ancient memory. Why? I wondered if the malls are all center-right; I didn't understand, it could also be that. I hope, I hope that is not the reason, also because the shopping malls are the places where there is control at the entrance, you measure the temperature, they are very spacious and large and above all avoid the assembly in the centers of the cities that you criticize. Why should Saturday and Sunday not at least have the hope of seeing their activities open? There are young people, people who only work Saturday and Sunday who have lost their jobs: do we want to remember these people too, yes or no? [[Applause.]] Not to mention home therapies. If the motion signed by everyone had been at first signed by De Petris you would have run to talk to all the doctors, Cavanna, Mangiagalli. And instead the League signed it and you only consulted with yours and you didn't even listen to them, you totally ignored them. That's to tell you what kind of attitude you usually have. Well, with these reasons, we, as we have told you from the outset, trust Draghi, because we are loyal to him and to the majority who support him. As for your person, Minister, since there is our intention to listen to you, show us to listen to you too and over time you start to understand that you need to... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u52	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we arrived in Parliament in 2018, health care came from a decade of cuts: EUR 37 billion was cut off from the National Health Fund; we lost 71,000 beds; 46,000 doctors and nurses left the Public Health Service to go to work in the private sector and see their merit acknowledged. When we arrived in Parliament in 2018, health came from the reform of Title V of 2001 which created 21 different regional health care, with A-series regions and B-series regions; Regions able to offer their citizens the most innovative care and the most advanced diagnostic methods, and Regions instead of coming out of a decade of commissioning and were unable to offer the essential levels of assistance. Health care has been used for years by local politics as an ATM to distribute electoral prebende. When we arrived in Parliament in 2018, we had clear objectives to pursue to reform our health. First objective: to break that very close link between politics and health and to remove the appointments of health leaders to politics. [[Applause]] Second objective: to reform the medicine of the territory starting from the emergency-territorial emergency system 118. Third objective: to allocate the resources of the National Health Fund in a fair way throughout the territory, not by looking at historical expenditure, but at the health needs of the population. Fourth objective: to reform the path of specialist training of doctors. In 2018 - and you, Minister Speranza, remembers it very well - of the 20,000 doctors who every year graduate in Italy, only 6,200 could have access to specialized training courses. When, at the end of 2019-early 2020, the pandemic invested us, the hopes that our National Health Service after these cuts could withstand were really reduced to light. We had about 5,000 intensive care jobs throughout the country; we did not have enough sub-intensive therapy, therefore pneumology and infectious diseases; there was a staff freeze in place since 2004. But then something extraordinary happened, and that is for the first time in history politics made decisions following the scientific method, reading the data and predicting the scenarios to reduce infections and therefore deaths. So a national lockdown took place: unlike those before me, I would like to remind you that thousands of deaths have been avoided thanks to that lockdown. [[Applause]] That's not what I'm saying, but Imperial College in London says, and that's what all research and statistics institutes say. Already then, however, as Senator Errani recalled, the opposition spoke of too drastic measures, of a virus similar to a banal influence. In the second pandemic phase - which may have been more disruptive than the first - the opposition always spoke of a clinically dead virus, now missing. [[Applause]] In fact, I believe that Italy is the only country in the world where the opposition is riding this tragedy to increase its electoral consensus. [[Applause]] The first objective of that opposition was to bring down the Count Government and you, Minister, perhaps represent a link of continuity with that Government. I still remember the words of President Mattarella at the fall of the Count Government: the President invited us to become builders of good. Yet today, from what I see in this House, we have not learned that lesson. [[Applause]] Before entering into the substance of these motions of mistrust, Minister, I would like to thank you, because already before the pandemic with you and with Minister Grillo had started a virtuous path. In September 2019 we had abolished the superticket and reduced the waiting lists; we then doubled the specialist training places of doctors. [[Applause]] Today they tell you that you must be distrusted because you have not updated the pandemic plan. The pandemic plan, in fact, was old, still in 2006. But, as you mentioned, I would also like to reiterate that since 2006, seven Health Ministers have succeeded, so at least it is a shared responsibility. And it is truly surreal that those who have been in Parliament since 1992 and who have been Minister from 2008 to 2011 say that they have no responsibility. [[Applause]] I would also like to say that that pandemic plan, although not up to date, provided for the Regions to be equipped, in case of pandemic events, with personal protective devices for their operators; it provided for the Regions to train their health workers to manage a pandemic or to provide differentiated routes of admission in case of infectious events. No region was ready. [[Applause]] On the positive side, Minister, is that health is finally at the heart of the political agenda. They also reproach her for not having made it possible for Italy to have an autonomous production of vaccine: those who say this obviously have no idea what it means to produce a vaccine. To produce a vaccine you need to invest in research and development and Italy is at 28th place in the OECD area for investments in these sectors. We invest only 1.4% of GDP in research and development, of which only 0.5% comes from public investment. We must start investing today in order to have, perhaps in a few years' time, an all-Italian production of a vaccine. Health is at the heart of the political agenda today. Today we have finally reversed the course and are again investing heavily in this sector. So today, Minister, we must ensure that that little light becomes a lighthouse and that finally those objectives of territorial medicine reform, of the removal of politics from health, of the revision of the path of specialist training of doctors, of the modernization of our hospitals finally become reality. The 5 Star Movement is at your side, Minister, with a sense of responsibility and service, as you asked. And we are convinced that his action has been guided exclusively by the desire to do the good of this country. But we, Minister, ask you to have courage, to continue to have perhaps even more courage to implement those reforms that are no longer procrastinable, even if that means discontenting some powerful union, because - as you said - this is the moment of courageous choices and only through these latter we will be able to turn this tragedy into opportunities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u54	About what? No one can speak during the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u55	SANTANGELO (M5S). The order of business may be brought to the attention of the House. That is what the Rules of Procedure say. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What regulation did you read? We are in an explanation of vote, so you will speak after the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u57	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u58	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I never speak in dissent from the Group, but this time I have to do so, because Senator Rizzotti convinced me that in her speech, contrary to the motion of distrust, she said so much and so much criticism of Hope that convinced me to reaffirm the tradition of Forza Italia not to participate in the individual votes of distrust, that we consider a questionable instrument. So, I'm not going to vote. Dragons is a certainty - I want to clarify it - and no matter how much it may serve, in the abundance of consents, it also enjoys my personal trust, but also Hope is a certainty: a certainty on the contrary, of inability and inadequacy. Who weakens the government, Senator Malpezzi? Hope and your action or who, even in this House today, criticized you? I don't have time in a dissenting speech to remember a lot of things: the management of the Aifa... president. Excuse me, Senator Gasparri, what is your disagreement with the position of Forza Italia? Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Forza Italia has declared that it will vote against the motion of no confidence, while I do not intend to participate. Let me finish. I would like to remind you of the management of Aifa, which was dissensioned by the EMA, creating confusion about the AstraZeneca vaccine, which I myself did for personal reasons, when it came to me according to the schedule of the city in which I live. Then there is the issue of the WHO report (War-Zambon), which you have not clarified; the confused management of closures made or not made at the beginning of the pandemic crisis. Senator Aimi, who is not a scientist, but a simple parliamentarians like us, presented a question on 28 January 2020 on the beginning of the crisis and on the relationships, precisely, taroccated or not taroccati. But then she goes to Fazio and the Annunziata in a protected area; she goes to "Report" and Giletti to face the truth, with courage, in the media. Don't run. Let's talk about the Immuni app. Let's talk about hiring the Paw. You took the Zampa out of the government and made him a contra legem contract as a press officer at the Ministry. Compared to your book, I hope a ghostwriter wrote it, as often happens to ministers, so you can blame someone else. Everyone spoke and I don't need to add anything else. We are guaranteed and therefore I do not quote Bergamo's inquiry, which could in any case create problems. I prefer - and I thank Senator Rizzotti for what she said - to continue, as Forza Italia has done other times, not to participate in individual motions of distrust, as Professor Armaroli wrote on "Il Sole 24 Ore" days ago, making its history and genesis. Of course, if Draghi has my trust, Hope can't have it today either. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u59	Before giving the floor to Senator Paragone, who will speak in dissent from his Group, I would like to say that as far as the dissent from the Mixed Group is concerned, next week I will convene a Council of the Rules of Procedure to discuss the issues pertaining to this Group, including those concerning the expression of dissent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u61	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u62	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I am sure that the lack of dissent still exists in this House will be able to have freedom of speech. After wizard Silvan we wizard Hope, who in his reply made the book disappear and then, in a period of emergency, either wrote it another or she at the Ministry does not touch ball, because it takes time to write a book. It made the fact disappear that the greater the time of exposure to lockdown and minor are the effects and unfortunately the number of deaths shows it; it made the answers disappear on the researcher's document; a document for which from the WHO to its Ministry they have worked to the maximum to make it disappear. Also in this case, in the midst of the emergency there was so much trouble to make disappear a document written by those who have been defined as the fools of Venice; not even Zidane's headboard revealed so much nervousness. She speaks so much of respect for heroes, for medical personnel, for Italians, she speaks of compassion, but within the world with which she interlogues there are those who define the researchers who are quitters of Venice. You obviously didn't mention the thing, yet those who use this epithet are the same Ranieri Guerra with whom you had an exchange of letters by email, but unfortunately in his long reply all this didn't mention it. He made the holes in the masks disappear, he also mentioned the production, but he did not say that there are prosecutors who are investigating those masks because they are fallacious, they are not protective, but the Italians continued to put them. You have also eliminated the fact that health cuts have been made by governments that you have fully supported and were governments that made cuts in the name of EU rules. The magician Hope, however, after so many disappearances, has two apparitions: the first is that soon you will close everything because there are variants (and this in fact has said it) and the other is that you also take the votes and support of the League and of Forza Italia. Congratulations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u64	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u65	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I am the first signatory to motion No 343, tabled with my colleagues from Alternative. In my words, Minister, there is nothing political or ideological. I think I have a duty to explain why your words didn't convince me. In particular, I do not context so much the mistakes he has made as the lack of intellectual honesty especially of his words today. In particular, in relation to the withdrawal of the report of the offices of Venice of the WHO said that it was an autonomous choice of that organization, but it is contradicted by what the vice president of the WHO says in a phone call intercepted with president of the Higher Institute of Health when he says that his chief of cabinet Zaccardi asked to see if they could make him fall into thin air (referenced to the report) and that, if no one talked about it by Monday, wanted him to die, otherwise they would take him back together. Well, on that you had to answer, not on the general question of autonomy, but on whether or not your chief of staff made this call asking to drop this report into thin air. The fact that you have drubbed this argument is really very worrying and it also casts dark lights on the fact that you have tried to secrete the minutes of the Technical and Scientific Committee, but it has not succeeded because of the regional administrative court of Lazio. Don't do that, it's a historical matter, it's objective data. Minister, in the light of all this, the serious thing is that you may have tried to manipulate scientific data or the dissemination of scientific data and this casts even more obscure shadows on the present. You are stepping your hand on a certain terrorist view of current data, despite, according to the data, we would be in the yellow area and even intensive therapies are falling. Then use these data for what they are and use the DPCM, which you are using precisely for the slimness and speed of administrative acts and not to act always with decree-law (this was the vulgate), to be precise and punctual, so that you can intervene to counter the contagion when it grows and you can liberalise and return to opening the activities when it decreases. Otherwise the suspicion is that you are using the pandemic for political purposes. That is why I confirm that I shall vote in favour of all three motions on our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u68	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out to you that when someone from Movimento 5 Star asks to speak, they do so not arbitrarily, but on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Rule 92 provides that I should be able to ask for the order of business and you should have given me the floor. Let me point out to you that again in this House, just as we are discussing a pandemic with almost four million people infected with our fellow citizens and with 120,000 dead, one of our colleagues, also Vice-President of the Senate, repeatedly speaks on the phone or with his colleagues keeping the mask down. It is a recurrent and shameful behavior, as well as not observing the rules. [[Applause]] In addition, Senator Rizzotti pointed out that there were 40 cases of infection among our colleagues; this means that in our population there is an incidence of 12.5%, practically twice that of the general population. [[Applause]] This is because we continue to ignore the rules, we continue to underestimate the virus, we continue to act casually during a pandemic, we who should set an example! [[Applause]] I would ask you, Mr President, to make sure that the rules are observed more closely and that the mask is worn in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u69	Senator Pirro, there are Senators Quaestors, including Senator Bottici, who is part of your Group, who have the task of keeping the order. [[Comments and protests]] My calls on this have been multiple, including with regard to the continuous gatherings in this House, which affect all groups across the board. As regards Rule 92 (1), which you referred to, I would point out to you that your speech, because of the content you gave, was an end-of-session speech. [[Protests of Senator Santangelo]] Senator Santangelo, I see that speaking you lower the mask, despite having just made a rebuke; [[Applause]] I don't like duplicity. Be polite, sit, have respect for the institutions, as it should be constantly. [[Protests of Senator Santangelo]] I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 2 p.m., in order to provide for sanitization. (The sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m. and resumed at 2.06 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u70	I communicate that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 30 of 13 March 2021 on urgent measures to deal with the spread of the Covid-19, and support measures for workers with minor children in distance teaching or quarantine" (2191).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u71	Colleagues, from today's sitting, in the roll-call votes, the Secretary Senators will use an electronic recording device of the votes expressed by the senators during the call. During the vote, the screens adjacent to the bench of the Presidency will indicate the sequence of the senators called to vote. At the end of the vote, the result will be made available immediately, which will be proclaimed by the President. In accordance with Article 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Article 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the nominal vote by appeal of motion n. 341, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. Each senator will vote from his own place, declaring his own vote. I now draw the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Saponara is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Saponara. GINETTI, secretary, make the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, there are too many assemblies. I would ask the Quaestors to try to maintain order in this House, because there are too many assemblies. There are protests coming out of the microphone and I would ask you to arrange it. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 341, of individual distrust of the Minister of Health, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators: [[Senators present 255 Senators voting 253 Majority 126 Favourites 29 Contrari 221 Absent 3]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u72	Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote on motion 342, tabled by Senator Paragone and other senators. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. Each senator will vote from his own place, declaring his own vote. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Siclari is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Siclari. LAFORGIA, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - at 15.04 a.m.) PRESIDENT. - The vote is closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 342, of individual distrust of the Minister of Health, presented by Senator Paragone and other senators: [[Senators present 239 Senators voting 237 Majority 118 Favorables 29 Contrari 206 Absent 2]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u73	In accordance with Article 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Article 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the nominal vote by appeal of motion n. 343, presented by Senator Crucioli and other senators. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. Each senator will vote from his own place, declaring his own vote. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Pichetto Fratin is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Pichetto Fratin. GINETTI, secretary, make the appeal. President. - I take the opportunity to say that Senator Causin has corrected himself, and I also say so for his Group: he had voted yes, but he has corrected himself and therefore his vote is no. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 343 of individual distrust of the Minister of Health, presented by Senator Crucioli and other senators: [[Senators present 235 Senators voting 234 Majority 117 Favorables 28 Contrari 204 Absent 2]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting which will resume at 5.30 p.m. or at the end of the Conference of Leaders. During the suspension, in addition to the Conference of Leaders, there will be the sanitization of the House. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 4.21 p.m. and resumed at 5.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u74	I am aware that the Conference of Leaders is still under way. However, we have decided to continue our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u75	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2168. The rapporteur, Senator Coltorti, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all the members of the Commission for their work in public works, communications and the Government, in the person of Mr Bellanova, for the work that has been done, so that the decree-law before us would arrive at this House in time to allow for a thorough discussion by the other branch of Parliament as well. Allow me, before I turn to the substance of the measure, to thank the offices of the 8th Commission for their valuable support. I would like to focus on one particularly sensitive point that emerged during the examination in the Commission, namely the number of amendments which were declared inadmissible. I would just like to point out that the President of the Republic has on several occasions called on the Government to ensure that, during the parliamentary examination of decrees, there are no clearly heterogeneous rules with regard to the subject matter and purpose of emergency measures. The declarations of impproponibility that have been expressed therefore correspond to the need to operate in such a way that the amending activity is carried out in full coherence with the limits of content deriving from the constitutional dictation. This does not mean that the proposals did not deal with very important issues, which will also have to be dealt with as a result of further investigation, precisely because they are too important. I am referring, for example, to the amendments relating to road transport, to the exemption of tolls, to the extraordinary Commissioner for the safety of the Gran Sasso water system, to the safety of tunnels and to all those things that fall under specific changes to the road code. What is right for citizens and professional associations to know is that the issues which have not been discussed and which will not be dealt with by this House today have not been considered to be of little importance or not worthy of note; on the contrary, they are probably considered to be so important that they need one or more specific measures. The measure that we are going to examine contains, in Article 1, urgent provisions on maritime placement in public service with the major and minor islands. In particular, it is expected that the provisions of the agreement concluded between the Ministry of Infrastructures and Transports and the Italian Shipping Company (CIN), on July 18, 2012, for the execution of the services of marine connection in public service regime with the major and minor islands, continue to apply for the time strictly necessary to allow the conclusion of the procedures banned for the imposition of public service charges and for the award of service contracts, with exclusive reference to the lines concerned by such procedures and therefore no later than the date of May 31, 2021. This Convention concerns the organisation of maritime services under public service arrangements with the major and minor islands of national interest, i.e. services carried out between the island regions and the extra-regional territory. In this case it is the connections with Sicily, Sardinia and the Tremiti islands, while the services of exclusive regional interest are excluded, that is the internal connections to the Regions and between them and their smaller islands, which are governed by the contracts signed by the Regions. The report reports that the six lines in respect of which the investigation carried out showed that the free economic initiative was not able to meet the needs of territorial continuity without the need for any public intervention and for which the provisions under consideration therefore provide for the ultreactivity of the Convention are as follows: Termoli-Tremiti, Civitavecchia-Cagliari-Arbatax, Naples-Cagliari, Cagliari-Palermo, Genoa-Porto Torres, Civitavecchia-Olbia. Article 1 also provides that, in the event of failure to conclude the above procedures by 31 May 2021 and limited to maritime connections not adequately insured through the provision of transport services to the market of persons and goods, by decree of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility, adopted in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the effectiveness of the convention may be extended for a further 30 days. This further extension should cover the routes Termoli-Tremiti and Civitavecchia-Cagliari-Arbatax, in relation to which during the summer period they do not appear to carry out services of transport of goods and persons economic operators other than the Italian Company of navigation (CIN). Article 2 differs from 31 March to 30 June 2021 the deadline within which the telematic procedures for the issue of the single document of circulation and property, provided for in Article 1 of Legislative Decree No 98 of 2017, rationalising the processes for the management of traffic data and property of motor vehicles, motor vehicles and trailers, aimed at the issue of a single document, pursuant to Article 8 (1) (d) of Law No 124 of 7 August 2015. The operation of the single document, originally scheduled for 1 July 2018, has been extended several times. The need for the new postponement is justified in the light of the fact that, in view of the continued containment measures for the epidemiological emergency, the improvement of the telematic procedures relating only to vehicles used for the transport of goods and persons has been slowed down, considering among other things that these vehicles have very complex sector regulations on registration. In addition, the monitoring tools for the operation of the new digital procedures need to be further improved in order to make the necessary corrective measures more quickly and to implement the functionality of the applications, as well as to ensure the optimisation of the procedures. Finally Article 3 previews that the authorities of harbour system of the northern Adriatic sea, within sixty days from the entry into force of the provision under consideration, proceed to the experiment of a contest of ideas articulated in two phases having to object the elaboration of ideas and plans of technical and economic feasibility for the realization and management of points of berth out from the protected waters of the lagoon of Venice, usable from the ships used for the transport passengers of tonnage greater than 40.000 tons and from the container ships used for transoceanic transports, also taking into account the results of eventual studies existing. For this purpose, expenditure of EUR 2.2 million shall be authorised in 2021. The contest of ideas will be carried out pursuant to article 56, paragraph 7, of the code of public contracts that, in the cases of interventions of particular importance and complexity, previews the possibility for the contracting station to proceed to the experiment of a contest of design articulated in two phases. Article 4 shall govern entry into force. In view of the changes made during the examination in the contact person, 8a Standing Commission in particular approved measures to further postpone, until 30 September 2021, the deadline for completing the telematic procedures for the issue of the single document of circulation and ownership; provisions for updating the implementation of the operational tools for the Smart Road solution, related to the process of digital transformation of the national road network; provisions for periodic revision of heavy vehicles; measures for extending to 31 December 2021 for the implementation of cabotage services, pursuant to Article 224 of the Navigation Code. Thank you all for your attention. Obviously we are all very sensitive to this problem that concerns Venice, which is in the heart of the world. Incanalizing this global need on the basis of clear, transparent and linear procedures will - we all hope - lead to a positive solution to this long-standing problem. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u77	I would like to inform the Assembly of the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, which approved the timetable until 7 May. The session of tonight will conclude with the general discussion of the decree-law in matter of transports and crocieristico traffic in the lagoon of Venice. The debate on the measure will continue with the vote on the amendments and the final vote tomorrow, beginning at 10 a.m. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place with the presence of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Labour and Social Policy. Next week, with sessions starting from Wednesday 5 until Friday 7 May (if necessary), will be discussed the decree-law on further measures to deal with the emergency Covid, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and the decree-law supports.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u78	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 7 May: [[Thursday 29 April h. 10 - Following bill n. 2168 - Decree-Law n. 45, Transports and crocieristico traffic in the lagoon of Venice (scade 31 May) - Questions to immediate answer, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (15 hours)]] ♪ ♪ [[Wednesday 5 May h. 9.30 am - Drawing of law n. 2191 - Decree-Law n. 30, Further measures to deal with the emergency COVID (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commissions) (decide on 12 May) - Drawing of law n. 2144 - Decree-Law n. 41, Support (where concluded by the Commissions) (decide on 21 May) Thursday 6 " h. 9.30 am Friday 7 " h 9.30 am (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 2191 (Decree-Law No 30, Additional measures to address the COVID emergency) will be set in relation to the work of the Commissions. Distribution of the times for the discussion of the bill n. 2168 (Decree-law n. 45, Transport and crocieristico traffic in the lagoon of Venice) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 35' Mixed 32' PD 29' FdI 23' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2191 (Decree-Law No 30, Further measures to deal with the COVID emergency) (5 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 35' Mixed 32' PD 29' FdI 23' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2144 (Decree-Law No 41, Support) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 8 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 26' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h 18' FIBP-UDC 1 h 9' Mixed 1 h 4' PD 59' FdI 45' IV-PSI 43' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 36' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u79	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Corti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking about the measure as a member of the 8th Commission, which this week has had the opportunity to analyse, amend and, above all, meet dozens of representatives of the groups involved at the hearing. We have had the opportunity to collect the cahier de doléance of the productive world and of the induced that surrounds the world of the transport. We have audit experts in design studies, we have met with the National Union of Self-Schools and many other actors in the sector, from FederAgenti to ANIASA and many others. Thanks to these auditions we have had confirmation of how much this pandemic has infierito ulteriorly on the historical criticalities of the field transports, from the civil motorizations to the marine and crocieristico traffic, to the auto schools, to the offices of car practices and to the provisions of the new potentials patented ones, that they must be accompanied by willing grandparents in order to drive the dreamed vehicle for which they possess only the pink sheet, because who knows when they will be able to pass the examination of license in the wake of the blackout caused from the pandemic. Above all, I would like to thank the members of the Lega Group in the 8th Commission, with whom I had the honour of signing dozens of common sense amendments, although for the time being silent, which I hope the Government will soon accept. Above all, I express a special thanks to our Parent Company, Senator Simona Pergreffi, who followed this measure with great passion and dedication from beginning to end. I am also speaking in this debate as a mountain senator, to reiterate that transport, tourism and entrepreneurship are three crucial issues, which go hand in hand or at least should be so. Without efficient transport, without good road and without new works there can be no hope of relaunching tourism and entrepreneurship in the internal areas. The Modena and Montagna College, which I have the honour to represent, is proof of this. Without the Cispadana motorway, how will the biomedical sector be at the forefront? Without the Campogalliano-Sassuolo motorway how can the most important ceramic district in the world be competitive? Without the restoration of the Veggia bridge, how will two strategic Provinces, those of Modena and Reggio Emilia, be united in safety? Without the axes of penetration in the mountains, such as the Cerredolo-Ponte Dolo, the Strettara-Pratolino and other numerous arteries, how will our tourism and our mountain crafts survive? If we do not have a 30-year vision of transport and communication routes, how can we expect our neighbouring tourism, skiing and cultural, to restart momentum after this devastating pandemic crisis, which has overwhelmed our already poor mountains? For the whole peninsula tourism, catering and food and wine excellence are essential. For this reason the League is firmly striving for a rapid reduction of curfew and for the opening of restaurants with closed rooms in safety. Of course, bad transport and lack of communication will never help our tourism sector compete in the world. With regard to the works I mentioned earlier, think that they are mostly works that are largely already funded and planned. However, a long-term vision is needed to prevent desertification of the inland areas and this applies to the whole peninsula. As a Member of Montefiorino, as Senator of the Dragon Valley, I invite the Government to invest immediately in fast, simple, essential and intelligent works. The inhabitants of the inner areas do not ask politics for pharaonic and expensive works. The Modena mountaineers, for example, say: give us 100 solid and wide Bailey bridges, which among other things were designed by a Neapolitan engineer named Cottrau, in 1867, and we will value them as 100 Golden gate bridge of San Francisco, or: give us 100 small roundabouts and we will value them as the place of the Étoile of Paris. Obviously all this in respect of the environment, in which the mountaineers live and of which they know well the ecosystem and the hydrogeological criticalities. The practical mountain people and the inner areas in general, know that to work and recover economically it is better to have a new solid bridge, although a bit rough, efficient even if they spartan, rather than starve and be forced to emigrate definitively to the clogged cities, leaving to the wolves our beautiful valleys. Wanting is power and politics must offer a far-sighted vision to thirty years, to give a hope of working future to the citizens not only of the peripheral areas, but also of the cities of art and production districts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u81	Senator Paroli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our attitude of readiness and support during the work of the Commission and of this House must not be exchanged with a total and remissive condescension, because the many doubts about the measure in question remain. I say this, not so much because there is something particularly out of place or wrong in the text, but because unfortunately it does not contain what was useful there: it is in short the classic missed opportunity. The measure consists of three articles, with two extensions in the first two, while in the third one is previewed a contest of ideas for the great ships to Venice, that it refers to: "proposte" and "projects of technical and economic feasibility relative to the realization (...) of docking points (...) usable from the ships used for the transport passengers of greater tonnage to 40.000 tons and from the portacontenitori used to transoceanic transports. We tried to correct and improve the text by including in the first two articles a series of rules which, like the extensions contained, could respond to the daily problems of citizens, but that was not possible. These are perhaps small answers, which may seem marginal or minor, but which are not, because they are the classic answers that can change the life and work of all of us for the better. There is therefore a debate on this. I join with the rapporteur's thanks to Mr Bellanova for his positive and cooperative work in the Commission on this measure. However, this is not just a reflection within the Commission, and I believe that other Members are now in agreement with it and not just with the measure under consideration. There is in fact too many arbitrary inadmissibility, while it is clear that the amendments must be properly assessed. Then there is the application of Article 81 of the Constitution by the 5th standing Commission on amendments which clearly do not involve expenditure: this too must stop. We cannot continue to allow massive action to be taken in order to reduce the number of amendments, without there really being an effective assessment of whether or not there are expenditure charges. After that, the few who survive are also faced with the trap of opposition, sometimes on sensible proposals, not only in my opinion, and shared by the entire Commission and I believe also by the entire Senate Assembly. Of course, this is difficult for Members to carry out their duties properly and I believe that an overall reflection on this issue must be done. We are all counting on a better future, but today we are witnessing a series of small paradoxes, which we have also faced in the Commission and on which it is to be smiled having to face them in concrete terms. Also the repositioning of the road code, which I find to be firm in the Chamber, must be addressed because, continuing to intervene for pieces and bits, we find ourselves with these total contradictions, of which I make a truly trivial example. Italy is a country that hopes to host many foreign tourists who may come from Northern Europe with their own car with foreign plates. They would find themselves and will find themselves, if we do not intervene, with the impossibility to turn to a mechanical workshop because an Italian mechanic cannot drive a car with a foreign license plate. The solution until recently was to use the test plate. Today the test plate becomes unusable because it is reserved only for vehicles not yet registered. It doesn't seem like an insurmountable problem, but it has to be addressed and solved. If each time the amendments are considered inadmissible, incompatible or are referred to a next solution that never comes, it is a problem. Another even more present and serious problem is that we are all counting on getting out of a pandemic, which has also blocked the economy. We all hope that the economy of our country can start again, but today we have 350,000 young people in Italy who ask to be able to take the exam in order to obtain the driving license, which is not a whim; it is the need on the part of our young people to have access to a job opportunity. We're not giving answers. We created a setback, which, in truth, is not only related to the pandemic because it was there before. We need to be aware that DMV is not able to do this today, so we need to find a different solution. I hope you will find it as soon as possible because it is an issue that arises. We come to the paradox - forgive me because even in this case it's funny, but maybe it would be more to cry - of guys who bring their grandfather next door with the pink sheet in order to be able to drive the car and carry out a series of works. I believe that this must be overcome and that it can be avoided. We are a country that I believe still has its credibility and economy at heart. We must therefore provide solutions to issues that call for immediate answers. I repeat that we have spoken with the President of the Commission and with Mr Bellanova about these issues, which are on the agenda. The hope is that everything can be dealt with as soon as possible. I close with the most important and intrusive issue of the measure, but at the same time unfortunately not resolving. I am referring to the great ships in Venice and the portualità. There is the fascinating proposal of the offshore port. It is not up to me to say how realistic and achievable it is, but certainly we cannot think to tie the portualità and the vocation to the portualità of Venice to a dream, to something fascinating, but unfortunately today not concrete. We, as parliamentarians, also have the duty to respond to the demands of the productive or administrative sectors - in this case it is the naval operators and the Municipality of Venice - that have identified a very clear solution: enough to the great ships in the Gulf of San Marco; yes to the landing place in Marghera through a channel that must only be maintained and cleaned. [[Applause]] We cannot fossilize ourselves on this subject with retro thoughts that take us nowhere. It's a legitimate request. We cannot think of Venice without its portuality. That would be irresponsible. It applies to passengers and applies to goods. We need to give an answer. After that, I believe that the issue of offshore port, because I do not give up on modernity - indeed - must be addressed. So, a contest of ideas is fine; well the possibility to understand if and what projects will have legs to walk. However, in the meantime, we cannot think of saying that Venice must die, because Venice has a past, a present and, we all hope, a future that is made of portuality. Here, though, I stop. I say this because it is understood, but I think it is not complicated: the theme is that there is a serious risk that, without the alternative answers that we must give, the great ships can really return to the Gulf of San Marco and I think that we do not want this. Then, precisely because we do not want it, we must find answers. In short, we need a change of pace, which I am sure there will be, which will lead the Government and Parliament to give the answers that the country asks for. We can always count on our work and on our availability. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u83	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since its inception Venice and its inhabitants have shown high technical-creative skills, of which hydraulic and architectural works are also an expression, so much so as to make our city and its lagoon unique in the world. The inclusion of the city within its lagoon waters is nothing more than the result of a dynamic process of interaction between man and the ecosystem in its natural environment. In fact, since its origins, Venice has a decidedly singular relationship with the water, which has always represented its strength and its most bitter enemy. The norm today in discussion represents plastically the same necessity to find a balance, that is to reconcile the human activities, like the important development of the crocieristica in the territory of Venice, with the safety and the safeguard of the uniqueness and the excellences of the cultural patrimony, landscape and environmental of the territory. The port of Venice is one of the main hubs of our portualità, in particular that of the North Adriatic. It is equipped with important infrastructures, with operating, port and industrial areas served by 12 kilometers of docks, road connections and 45 kilometers of railway network of maneuver. Inside work 13,000 employees and has a very substantial traffic goods, pairs to 26,500 tons in 2018. However, for the economy of the city it is right to find quickly a sustainable solution for the crocieristico field and for its supply chain. It is evident, therefore, what impacts for the economy of the city and of the whole Region have had the limitations imposed by the Government to contain and manage the emergency of the Covid-19, given the strategic importance of tourism for the territory, one of the sectors most affected by the crisis. It is necessary now more than ever to work in order to reconcile the safeguard of the environment and the protection of the landscape with the restart and the development, allowing also the full resumption of the crocieristica activity which fundamental key element for the tourist field. You must know that in 2019, therefore before the pandemic, thanks to the cruise ships have landed to Venice 1.650.000 tourists, some of which also to stay a few days in the city. It is a supply chain and an induced one able to move 259 million euros in the metropolitan city, including food supplies. There are 1,700 people involved to various title only in the activities of check-in and check-out near the port and the airport, between which also 500 boys and university girls that make the seasonal ones in support of activity for the precise boarding and disembarkation, while the total supply chain of the home port has an important number of people occupied - thought - approximately 15.000. For the economy of the metropolitan city it is just to find quickly a sustainable solution for the port and for the crocieristico field in how much of fundamental importance. We have heard some politicians complain about the excessive number of tourists, but the solution cannot be identified in blocking or restricting tourist activities, but leaving local administrators the burden of managing the flow of visitors, as Venice has also done in recent years. Limiting tourism in Venice means depriving it of a priority component of the trade and economy of the territory; it means deindustrializing it and then killing it or - perhaps worse - transforming it into a beautiful place almost crystallized and not accessible, at the expense of thousands and thousands of families left without work and activity. We are called to be concrete, to strongly and decisively support possible solutions for Venice: we owe it to the citizens, to the workers, to all the operators. We are all affected by the images of huge ships from cruise that pass in front of San Marco, in particular those with tonnage superior to 40.000 tons: we are all aware of the necessity to find suitable infrastructural solutions that guarantee safety and development, also for the crocieristico field, which key element for the economy and the occupation of the territory, without penalizing the safeguard of the excellence of the cultural patrimony, landscape and environmental of Venice and its lagoon. To this end, we welcome with favor how much previewed article 3 of the provision in discussion, that is the elaboration of ideas proposals of plans of technical and economic feasibility, times to contemperare the development of the crocieristica activity in the territory of Venice, in respect of the safeguard of the uniqueness and the excellences of the cultural patrimony, landscape and environmental of the territory. This activity represents for Venice a flywheel and not a constraint, a limit to the restart of the commercial economic activities of tourism and development. The Commission will then be able to choose the best of the proposals and give a definitive solution to the problem. Waiting for this one of the main and immediate solutions for the ships from cruise can be represented from Marghera port, allowing the entrance of the ships from the mouth of port of Malamocco and the journey of the channel of the Oils, the same in which they currently navigate the commercial ships. From Porto Marghera the landing places for the larger ships can be addressed therefore to the industrial channel North, north bank, maintaining the centrality of the existing marine station, while the smaller units could cover the channel Vittorio Emanuele III, that it needs an adequate maintenance. Colleagues, it is fundamental and important to seek the balance between environmental sustainability and the tourist and economic activities of the territory, even if its death. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u85	Senator Vanin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u86	Mr President, I dedicate my speech to the minor Venetian institutions, to the schools, where the confraternities are located, to the basilica of San Marco, to the whole island, which to date have not received any help for restoration and safety after the large water of 12 November 2019. I dedicate it to the citizens of Venice, who when they hear the sirens of the tide alert wonder if the gates of the Mose will rise to 110 or 130 cm above sea level and fear the salt waters of the Adriatic that, from the mouths of port, enter with more and more force in the lagoon and corrode precious marbles and inestimable mosaics. The destiny of Venice, moreover, is linked to the destiny of the lagoon and therefore also to the decisions that will be taken on the transit of the great ships in the lagoon. It is news of these days - for example - that François Pinault, known for the contemporary art centers of Palazzo Grassi and Punta della Dogana in Venice, in 2019 has invested a contract to Fincantieri of 300 million euros in order to build yachts that, besides the fleet already present, depart from Venice for cruises in the Mediterranean, but are ships of small dimensions, with 120-130 cabins for approximately 200 passengers. This news is important because it confirms a fact: who loves Venice really respects it and respects its lagoon, does not dig backdrops, does not endanger the foundations on the water of the palaces with wave motion, does not transform the lagoon into a highway of the sea. The MoVimento 5 Stars in Venice - and not only - has always been contrary to the giganticism of the great cruise ships of the multinationals that, with their staces (80,000 tons and more), now torment the backdrops and the waters of the basin of San Marco and the canal of Giudecca, putting at risk the city and its inhabitants. We all remember the recent incident of the Delightful Coast of 7 July 2019, which with 2,800 passengers on board has broken over another boat, touching the shore in San Marco basin and touching the disaster. For this risk and for these damages the Movimento 5 Stars has always asked that the dimensions of the ships allowed in the lagoon were and always are limited, but now will the contest of ideas be enough to ban the transit to San Marco for the great ships? The landing places in Marghera, of which so much is said, with the interventions on the North channel and the North shore, are harmful for the handling of the mud. The excavation necessary in order to realize the dock for the ships of 80.000 tons and more will be really temporary? The data show us clearly that it will be extremely expensive - 62 million allocated - since the estimate ranges from 150 million to 200 million euros for excavations, for the withdrawal of the dock, for the expropriation of the land, for the transport of sludge in authorized landfills: costs that will never justify the temporaryity and make everyone think that they will be final. [[Applause]] Precisely in these days for fatality have been allocated by the provisioned funds for the margins of the same indicated areas, which will in fact be excavated and backward; therefore money spent badly and wasted for a temporaryity that will certainly be something else. Respecting the lagoon and its morphology, instead, is necessary for its very existence, because the Venetians well know that the lagoon has an average depth of 1.50 meters, and its interior is not suitable to be a port from the deep bottoms, anything else. When in the fifties we wanted to dig another artificial canal even deeper than there was, realizing the Malamocco-Marghera canal - quoted by colleagues - in order to get oil tankers into the industrial area of the mainland, in fact the destruction of the morphological balance of the lagoon itself began. Today want to continue to dig in order to make transit passenger and commercial ships, ever bigger, for so-called temporary landing places, in Marghera - Seveso risk zone for industrial and chemical plants, and not only, present - will transform in fact with the excavations the lagoon in an arm of sea that, for the quantity of salt water that will enter, will destroy the city and its millenary culture and shortly will serve the celebrations. Is it positive then the contest of ideas that the Government wants to do with the provision to our examination in order to carry the ships from the tonnage beyond the 40.000 tons outside from the so-called protected waters? Yes, but only this is not enough, because it will take at least two years to choose the best project, but then, in reality, we do not really know the time of its realization. It will take at least two more years for the temporary landings in Marghera and, in the meantime, the great ships will continue to pass before San Marco, almost as tall as the Bell Tower, with 2,000-3,000 people on board that very little lead to the economy of the city, as the economic categories of the city indicate us. On the ship in fact you eat, you sleep, you make the purchases, you attend the animations, the cinema and the theater: everything is included in the price. But what is the price that Venice and its resident citizens pay? [[Applause]] It is a very salty price: air pollution, wave motorbike that breaks the seabed and undos the posts of the foundations of banks, palaces and monuments; serious and continuous danger, as we have been told for decades scholars and scientists and that UNESCO has found in the dossier of the last visit of its inspectors, where there are also many other critical issues for the protection of the lagoon environment, the problems of the city, the real control of tourist flows and residentiality. [[Applause]] It is therefore necessary to act immediately and apply the so-called decree Clini-Passera that sets the limit of 40,000 tons to the transit to San Marco. We must plan departures and arrivals and not allow more than 10 or 12 ships with 2,000-3,000 passengers per ship are simultaneously in transit along the canal of Giudecca, only on Saturday and Sunday. It is necessary to monitor immediately, with scientific rigour, with public agencies in charge and not others, such as the National Council of Research (CNR) and the Higher Institute for Protection and Environmental Research (ISPRA), the damages to the backdrops, to the monuments, along the internal channels in the entire Lagoon, because the season of the cruises has already broken down and in the meantime nothing has changed. Instead of that it has not been taken into account. Only so the contest of ideas will have meaning, identifying and defining a class Venice for the ships that must have tonslings and constructive characteristics compatible with the lagoon environment and its waters and the plan of the outpost for the crocieristica, the container, etc., will have to respect the criteria of the special law for Venice; it will have to be gradual, experimental, reversible and not to prevent the equilibrium of the lagoon ecosystem, already extremely difficult with the Electromechanical Experimental Module (Mose): an increasingly precarious balance with the climatic changes, that they preview - as the scientists tell us - a rise of the sea between few decades of 70-120 centimeters. So, yes to the contest of ideas, yes to a true comparison and true comparison between the plans for the new terminal cruises, that they will be introduced. Yes to an infrastructure that, while respecting the environment, is not invasive and destructive of the coasts of the entire lagoon eaves, that respects the beaches and the environment in its integrity, designed therefore with new technologies, but ancient wisdom. Who loves Venice respects it and does not sevizia its lagoon with sudden excavations, but protects it. [[Applause]] For this reason, nobody forgets that the Republic of Venice considered an attack on its very existence any intervention to modify the waters of the entire lagoon that altered its difficult and precious balance. That's why the Movimento 5 Stars of Venice - and not only - was and is fundamental. Do not consider Venice and its lagoon a playground for tourist use. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u87	Senator Doria is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u88	Dear President, kind colleagues, in the matter of transport, as representative of an island region I feel obliged to intervene emphasizing the criticalities and suggesting the opportune correctives in order to live up to the third millennium. Personally, I have never considered the insularity of my land a negative factor but, indeed, a sort of laboratory of history and biology. And, to testify to this, I can cite the myths of the past that have seen Sardinia seat of the ancient world of Atlantis and the discoveries of the present that make it the land of the centenarians, for that chromosomal selection that only ancient lands have been able to generate. But the myths, the centenaries and the glories of the past - they must be rediscovered and valued - are not enough to support the economy of an island region, whose revival passes for a healthy policy of infrastructure and passenger and freight transport. The term "territorial continuity" refers to those legislative instruments which aim to guarantee transport services to citizens living in disadvantaged regions of the Nation, overcoming the disadvantages associated with their remoteness. A fundamental feature of territorial continuity is the regulatory basis as a public service, which makes it possible to derogate from the principles of free market and free competition so that transport can be used regardless of the actual profitability of the carrier. In the case of Italy, territorial continuity affects the two major islands of the Mediterranean, Sardinia and Sicily. Sardinia needs a long-term maritime and air continuity and not linked to deadlines and extensions that generate uncertainties and imbalances. The summer season is at the gates and economic disasters created by the pandemic cannot be added those deriving from the uncertainty tied to an expensive, inadequate and penalizing transport system for the entire region. If it is an unequivocal data the right of the Sardinians to mobility from and for Sardinia, like the rest of the Italians who live and move on the peninsula, it is no less the right to a maritime continuity for the goods entering and leaving the island. The gap derived from the insularity cannot be the eternal ball at the foot of those who decide to do business in Sardinia. The cost of transport on a finished product affects us as if a second value added tax were applied to that same product. To this end the Government is asked a new territorial continuity that reduces the costs of transport for people and goods, but also a transport system with high standards of quality that are worthy of a civil country, as the entrusting to the carriers of the routes in territorial continuity cannot be based on the only criterion of the lowest cost, but rather on an overall offer. The quality and comfort offered in the ferries that cross the routes between Sardinia and the peninsula must serve as a business card of our tourist sector and as the first day of vacation for those who decide to spend the working period in our land. And if the maritime continuity cries, that airplane certainly doesn't laugh. In order to choose the entity to be entrusted with air territorial continuity services, a European tender is always launched, indicating the routes and the number of minimum flights to be guaranteed, as well as the price of the ticket with related services and advantages. These routes, once allocated, are then granted exclusively and with state subsidies to those who win the tender, by way of derogation from the principle of free market. The air continuity imposed on Sardinia by Rome and Brussels allowed to connect the three Sardinian airports (Olbia, Cagliari and Alghero) with the only hubs of Milan and Rome Fiumicino. For a free movement of passengers and goods, with obvious revival of the economy, it would be necessary instead to connect the three main Sardinian airports with the other airports of productive areas of the Country, but for years the ban is blocked to the screening of the European Commission because of an incomprehensible hypothesis of violation of the rules of market. In this way Europe cannot be the ball at the foot of the economic development of regional realities. After his inauguration, the president of the Region of Sardinia Christian Solinas, already a member of this Assembly, in an uncertain situation due to the lack of renewal of the ban of air continuity firm in Brussels, had to face one of the largest economic and financial cracks of the history of modern civil aviation with the failure of Air Italy that, besides having put on the road 1,500 specialized employees and their families, has also left the monopoly of the routes to Alitalia that - as everyone knows - makes water from all sides. Finally, I would like to stress that an efficient transport system is based on modern and functional infrastructure. From this point of view, Sardinia suffers biblical delays in the completion of public works of strategic interest. Aware that the funds of the recovery plan are not endless, however, we record an unfair distribution of resources, which see our island penalized and which conditions the economy and social growth of Sardinia. In terms of internal transport, both the road network and the railway network are experiencing a state of backwardness that cannot be tolerated anymore: unfinished or permanent maintenance of state roads, inadequate, inadequate or obsolete railway networks that generate totally off-market transport with biblical journey times. In an era in which the ecological transition must be the main theme of an infrastructure policy choice, there is no linear metre of electrified railway network in Sardinia. In the harbour field the conditions for an acceleration of all those works that make competitive a marine port of call are to be created. Therefore, in order to elevate the potentiality and the ecosustainability of the Sardinian harbour system, besides that new useful investments for the completion of industrial and commercial ports, an urgent reform of the code of the contracts for the sburocratizzazione of the procedures is necessary, and on these topics the Government cannot remain indifferent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u89	He's enlisted to speak Senator Saviane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u90	Mr President, today's transport decree-law also addresses the issue of cruise ships and the maritime transport of goods in the Venice lagoon. Only a week ago, in the general discussion on the reorganization of the Ministries, about the new Ministry for the ecological transition I had talked about the wood supply chain, the woods and also the wonderful history of Venice: a city unique in the world, built on wooden poles in a fragile environment, but still alive and wonderful, thanks to the extraordinary ability of the Venetians to keep a jewel fruit of dedication, work and wise management of the marine environment, the mainland and the woods. The commercial production activities allowed the city of Venice to become a small village, as it was at the time of its foundation, in the wonder that we all know today. But the real strength of the city is to be traced back to the port, the mercantile crossroads between East and Europe. Today, inside of the decree-law transports, it is previewed to call a contest of ideas in order to acquire proposals, ideas and plans of technical and economic feasibility, turned to regulate the crocieristica activity in the lagoon in order to safeguard the uniqueness of its cultural patrimony, landscape and environmental. The call for competition provides that the design proposals must have as a principle the realization and management of docking points outside the waters of the lagoon. Given that no one wants to see the huge cruise ships parade in front of Piazza San Marco, with any subsequent accidents - we all remember what happened a few years ago on the banks of Giudecca - the question I ask myself is whether it is really necessary to imagine that docking points should be only and exclusively outside the lagoon area. Banning a competition of ideas open to professionals should allow them to study, analyze and design independently. If we talk about ideas, there must be no prior conditioning, on the contrary, research and innovation should be encouraged. Ideas are for this; they can be good, bad or even genius, but certainly not driven by political interests. The great demographic decline that has been affecting Venice for years cannot leave any of us indifferent. So... [[The microphone is switched off automatically)...]] the Venetians' concern in imagining their city without a port and, consequently, without a soul. As I have already said, in this decree-law we talk about the location of the docking point of the ships, but I believe that Venice deserves an in-depth study to plan its future. On the beauty of Venice we all agree. What I take in visiting this beautiful city is the loss of its historical, identity and cultural characteristics. The dramatic demographic decline that Venice has undergone in recent decades is transforming the city: less and less characteristic locals, such as shops and bars, and more and more international locals and foreign-run shops. Doing a classic "bacari tour," that is drinking good wine and eating tasty "cicchetti", typical snacks of the place, allows you to know the Venetians and their stories. This simple gesture has become difficult, because it is difficult to find some true Venetian that addresses in the few authentic taverns left. The risk we run is that we focus on saving Venice by forgetting the Venetians. We have the responsibility to safeguard this beautiful city, but we must also be concerned that the Venetians, with their identity, can continue to live in their city. Let's try to think Naples without the Neapolitans, Rome without the Romans, Milan without the Milanese: would they be the same cities? I don't think so. We must therefore pay our attention to defending as many economic activities as possible, in order to allow the Venetians to live in their beautiful city, also in memory of the wonderful history of which Venice has been the protagonist. It is good, therefore, that in the opinion expressed by the Environment Commission the point has been inserted that the institutions and local authorities should be involved. Who more than the representatives of the Venetians themselves wants to safeguard their city and its characteristics? Another reflection concerns the complicity of the great works - such as the Mose. I wonder if the idea of an offshore port is not too impacting on the environment and landscape compared to the location of the port in Marghera. It is not up to me, of course, to say what are the best solutions, I do not have the skills, but we wonder why we can no longer talk about maintenance, especially if we listen to the Venetians and the residents, when they tell us that regularly we were taking care of the canals and the mitigation of the high water. In this regard, I am reminded of many speeches in this House, which have now been confirmed that the responsibility for global pollution is almost exclusively attributable to intensive farming and the alteration of the ecosystem, including the care and maintenance of canals or streams. I live in the mountains, among beautiful lakes, streams and rivers and I see with my own eyes how the trees in the waterways continue to grow, causing the water to come out, pouring into the streets and countries causing great damage. It also worries the raising of the bed of the lakes, which risks making the natural beauties of which I said disappear. Ladies and gentlemen, there can be some doubt that, in fact, we want to shift the real responsibilities of those who really pollute. If for a thousand six hundred years the maintenance of the channels has been done, now we realize that it is anti-ecological? I put these reflections to a peaceful and constructive debate, with the hope of not receiving free attacks from colleagues who, instead of discussing in Parliament, bring pieces, in puzzle format, of what is said in this House on their social profiles, strong to have the truth in their pockets. I'm referring to my last speech, where I was talking about expansion... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u91	I invite you to conclude, Senator. [[Comments of Senator Saviane]] I'll let you finish, but I guarantee you that you've gone further than all your colleagues have done. I am always careful not to interrupt, but I must invite you to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u92	The uncontrolled expansion of the forest leads to the growth of tall trees with roots that grow horizontally rather than vertically, causing collapses or even landslides, or floods if the trees grow in the grets of the rivers. I do not go any further because even a child knows what forestry or forest farming is. Sometimes it would be enough to have the desire to know the history of people, where they come from and what they have done. With this attitude one is more inclined to listen and doubt that the truth in one's pocket is absolute. Let me conclude with a beautiful phrase by Carlo Goldoni: All cities in the world are more or less alike: Venice is not similar to any others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u93	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u94	Madam President, I thank the Undersecretary for her attention and willingness. Respect for and protection of artistic and cultural heritage - as we know - is directly imposed on us by the Constitution, Article 9. And it is precisely the respect of the artistic and cultural heritage represented by Venice and its lagoon that requires the utmost attention. Venice boasts in fact a material heritage of inestimable value, but it is worth even more the immaterial one, made of an important anthropic presence, traditions, crafts, arts and culture consolidated over the centuries of history that have seen it protagonist. With this provision it is sought to finally face the problem of the delicate balance between interests, both important and deserving of protection: on the one hand, the need to preserve and protect the artistic, cultural and environmental heritage of Venice and, on the other, the necessary development of the crocieristica activity and the traffic goods. The solution goes in this direction of balancing. Therefore, the experiment of a competition of ideas, within sixty days from the entry into force of the decree, has the objective to collect proposals and plans of technical and economic feasibility and to characterize the most suitable solutions for the realization of docking points usable from the ships used for the transport of passengers beyond 40.000 tons of tonnage, but also from the container ships used for the transoceanic transports. The rules contained in the measure that we are preparing to vote are only a first step towards a solution that is at the same time definitive and structural for the problem of the transit of the great ships, but also respectful of the patrimony represented from the lagoon reality of Venice. It is therefore a moment of fundamental importance for the city of Venice - it celebrates this year the thousand six hundred years from its foundation - whose stability has long been put at risk by the passage of the great ships from cruise near the historical center. This is a measure that goes in the right direction, the one long awaited for years and also requested by UNESCO. Anyone who, in recent years, has passed to Venice must have been shocked to see ships hundreds of meters long passing in fragile places like the canal of Giudecca or in front of San Marco. For this it is important to design and realize the definitive landing place of the ships outside the lagoon, as UNESCO has long asked Italy. That of the great ships in the basin of San Marco has been for years an unsustainable presence for the impact that similar colossus have on the fragile Venetian foundations and on the environment. Furthermore, there are not isolated cases of accidents with local boats, where the tragedy has been touched on several times. But that's not all. The great companies of cruises have unloaded daily hordes of tourists: a system undoubtedly of high economic induced, but just as harmful, on which one has not been able to do without to reflect when the pandemic has burst, when the city has suddenly found itself deserted. Everything in Venice, in fact, cannot help but confront the structure, history and problems of one of the most fragile cities in the world, built in the middle of a lagoon considered in turn a delicate and at risk. Therefore, the question of the safeguard of Venice includes several issues that, in order to be resolved, must be seriously addressed in a unified way. The lagoon - as has already been mentioned by my colleagues - has an irregular depth and, therefore, cruise ships cannot navigate anywhere inside it and, like the other large freight ships that cross it, must follow well-defined routes. I do not dwell on this part to remain in the minutes that have been assigned to me, but I think it is clear that we are talking about the fragility of Venice. The plan contained in the provision of which we discuss previews an appropriation of important funds, in order to arrive to the realization of new terminals for which they will have to be identified also precise positionings. This will take time and, for this reason, the competition of ideas provided for by the measure under consideration concerns the point of arrival of a process that at this point seems to have begun, even if modalities and times of solution of the problems of Venice are obviously to be monitored in a constant way. In this regard, we are working on temporary solutions with a view, in second instance, to a more structured and definitive solution. What we must undoubtedly avoid is that the decree-law that we are discussing today remains a dead letter, as unfortunately the measures that preceded it. In fact, the decree Clini-Passera already in 2012 stipulated that, in the lagoon of Venice, transit into the canal of San Marco and the canal of Giudecca was prohibited. In the concrete implementation of this rule a temporary provision had been foreseen that nevertheless authorized the passage of the great ships, just waiting for the identification of practicable routes alternative to those prohibited. This provision, which was created to remedy a complex situation temporarily, has become definitive in nature, and in fact the prohibition of transit into the lagoon has been disenforced. To conclude, Venice is among the most beautiful cities in the world, for its extraordinary and enormous artistic and architectural heritage, the result of centuries of history, but also for its peculiarities. Protecting and protecting this wealth is today our task, without neglecting however the undeniable requirements that arise from the crocieristico traffic or of goods. This measure, ladies and gentlemen, is an opportunity that we cannot miss in order to finally try to provide a fair and balanced response, in the sign of respect and protection of the wonderful artistic and cultural heritage that surrounds us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u95	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u96	Mr President, I make a necessary premise, because we need to contextualize what we are talking about. We are talking about the most beautiful city in the world, which this year celebrates its thousand six hundred years, which for years has been at the forefront with its Republic, the Serenissima, in many respects, both commercial and that of citizens' rights. It is a city that, however, in recent years, has suffered a very strong depopulation, especially in the historic center, going from the 150,000 inhabitants of 1957 to little more than 51,000 of this year; a city that suffers also what the previous one has described as the drop of hordes of tourists, that screams a bit with the fact that those who have seen Venice in these days complains just not to see any; perhaps, between the two things, it is better to have problems of management of too many tourists than to have just, as it is happening because of the Covid and the wrong choices of the government. It is true that Venice suffers from bites and escapes. Of the 5 million tourists in Venice, one million and 600,000 tourists arrive with the big ships. It is well known that the tourism sector in Italy is worth 13% of GDP. The city was also marked, a few years ago, by the phenomenon of large water; here we could start thinking about climate change. It is not up to me, but it is up to science to discuss and decide whether climate change is due to human activity or cyclical activity. It is up to us, perhaps, that we administer here, but also on the territories, to do all those operations that mitigate the effects and above all contrast them. The effects of the climate must be countered, but also those of a rapidly changing economy. I remember the question of Murano glass: in 2019, out of 600 employees, 40 percent were in the integration fund. Brothers of Italy, soon, will be in the square to demonstrate in support of this sector. Then there was the crisis of 2008, which put in great difficulty many businesses, even the tourist ones. Then, last but not least, that of these years, which in fact emptied the city and left many properties that were in the hands of the Venetians at the mercy of the great groups (when it was good) and sometimes unfortunately also of the underworld (when instead it went wrong). In all this, however, there is a vital theme, that of safeguarding the most beautiful city in the world. I do not say this because it is the capital of my Region, and I do not say it either - as my colleague Mr Saviane rightly mentioned earlier - because Venice has always supported Belluno and Cadorin wood (this obviously ties me to that land). I say this because the whole world is fascinated by the beauty and magic of Venice. And it is precisely by taking into account these premises and the fragility of this territory that the measure under consideration is inserted. On the contrary - please excuse me colleagues - more than throwing the ball in the gallery again, because waiting for a feasibility study, still using public resources and not considering what is instead on the table for many years is a lengthening of agony, probably not to disturb and not to bump those demagogically does not take into account the premises and above all the repercussions that demagogic choices would have in case they were taken. Someone does this in the name of supposed environmentalism; but already on the term "environmentalism" we should ask ourselves questions. We prefer to talk about ecology, that is, the relationship between man and the environment, precisely because it is man who has the mission of conservative and guardian of nature and does it through what differentiates us from all other living beings, that is, through technique. What brings us today the technique already on the table? What does the technique tell us today about nature and especially about Venice? It requires us to find solutions that combine the fragility with the economicity of that area. And the solution is certainly not to expect an offshore port outside the lagoon, in a city that has always been a port of arrival and departure, and not a port of transit. An offshore port will necessarily become a port of transit: this means not to understand what is the peculiarity of a port of arrival. And there is all the induced that works behind: the luggage, the passengers, the transports and the supplyings. This means totally changing what is the vocation of Venice since always in the world. This for what? To please the social centers or someone who, after having seen all his nineteenth and twentieth century ideologies fail, today finds himself only in a fake environmentalism, which is nothing compared to the conservativeism that we preach and have in mind for years, and that in the name of all this claims to distort and destroy the economy of a city? [[Applause]] The solutions are there and they are under everyone's eyes. They are in Porto Marghera, with the moorings spread in the commercial port, but not only. They are necessary for the great ships, above the 40.000 tons, the arrangement of the dock of the industrial channel North and the maintenance - not dredging - and the leveling of the channel Vittorio Emanuele for the small ones. Malamocco, Petroli, industrial canal and, in the end, Marittima: these are the strategies, this is the technique that comes to our rescue, this is a vision that preserves and preserves Venice: the truly ecological vision, of those who have the heart first of all ecology and that is the relationship between man and nature, in which man is the one who preserves and preserves a precious city like Venice and its economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u97	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u98	Mr President, we are examining a slender decree-law of three articles, plus a quarter relating only to the time of entry into force. This is a slim measure - I would say slender - that we tried to enrich and strengthen in the Commission, even by finding attention in the Government and undersecretary Bellanova, which I thank. In fact, we have not succeeded, because many amendments, especially to Article 2, on which virtually identical texts have been tabled by different political forces, have been mowed down, first by improbability and then under Article 81 of the Constitution. Then the government, especially in relation to Article 2, assured that some amendments will be part of a next decree-law, to be approved in a few days, and therefore those we have withdrawn too. Some had survived, to vote tomorrow, but the usual axe of President Alberti Casellati has arrived - I will talk about this at the end of my speech - and those have also been eliminated. This is a missed opportunity, because in our Commission between government and parliamentary forces there is always a way of working well and in harmony, thus achieving positive results. I'll come over quickly and say something about the three articles. Article 1 relates to territorial continuity. In practice, a new extension was necessary compared to the previous one, which we had established in Decree-Law No 34 of 2020, which had established until February 2021 the validity of the convention between the Italian Navigation Company (CIN) and the Ministry. In this case too, it must be said that, in fact, a deadline was already adopted in the Council of Ministers until June; then, in Parliament, we returned to February and we realized, instead, the need for a further extension. I believe, Mr President, that whenever an extension is made in relation to the deadlines set, Parliament and the Government must live it a bit like a defeat, like a setback, but sometimes extensions are absolutely necessary and this is the case. Among other things, the Italian shipping company, in order to guarantee territorial continuity, from February to today is working substantially without contractual coverage. There is talk of territorial continuity with Sicily, Sardinia and the Tremiti islands; for those lines where, without public intervention, you would not be able to meet the mobility needs of citizens. Article 2 still contains an extension, so I will not repeat what I said earlier, which deals with an apparently minor subject, but of absolute necessity. Once again it was necessary to move from 31 March to 30 June 2021 the deadline by which to complete the telematic procedures for the issue of the single document of circulation and property provided for by Legislative Decree No 98 of 2017, which was to enter into force in 2018. On Article 2, as I said earlier, a large number of amendments have been tabled, in my view urgent and important, on the subject of driving licences in Covid's time... [[The microphone works intermittently. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u99	Senator, you're right. He's not the first to have trouble with the microphone. Try moving around and see if another one works better.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u100	MARGIOTTA (PD). We had tried to include a number of amendments relating to the acquisition of driving licences in Covid's time, with all the additional difficulties that have been encountered. We then withdrew them and the Government undertook to implement them in the next decree and we are sure that this will happen. We come to Article 3, perhaps the most awaited and debated one. We have heard speeches from many colleagues. We are talking about the theme of the great ships in Venice. I will not use words - various Venetian colleagues have done so and not - to define the beauty of this city. It is so in everyone's eyes that even talking about it, rather than being a strengthening, seems to diminish what could be said about this city. We must always combine - this is the effort that the government has asked us to make... [[The microphone works intermittently. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u101	I have no solution to offer you, Senator. He's right. If you can console it, mine doesn't respond to any kind of command or intercourse.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u102	MARGIOTTA (PD). The defence of the environment, the reduction of impacts, the minimization with works of ingenuity and engineering have been highly debated. So many were the polemics about Mose. Now it works; there is no higher water in Venice and none of those who argued clearly said that it was probably wrong. This is a different case. ( [[The microphone works intermittently]] ). It's a decree-law. There is a contest of ideas, done in compliance with the law. The first phase is to acquire proposals and then there is the presentation of feasibility projects (in a maximum of ten). All this is aimed at the construction and management of a model that allows to overcome the serious problem of the great ships in Venice. There is a mail that finances this article. It is to be hoped that a high-level committee will be appointed which really chooses the best of the possible solutions. In this case, all political forces have decided to... [[The microphone works intermittently]] . . the amendments, because there were some amending proposals that were ambitious to set the line for the final solution or to sponsor one or the other existing project. I believe that Parliament did not and does not have this task, since the Government has delegated it to this committee to be set up by the Port Authority. So, we in the PD have withdrawn two very fair and reasonable amendments, signed by Senator Ferrazzi, but in the face of the risk that the Commission or this House might already carry out the competition of ideas because we were almost there, we decided to withdraw everything and leave the text of Article 3, as proposed. President, I would have liked an important and interesting amendment - not because it was signed by me, but because it was supported by the Government and the entire Commission - on smart roads to be approved tomorrow in this House, as was approved by the Commission. I am told that this too will be considered alien to the arguments of this decree. I have to say that it is a bit laughable that a decree-law that has as its title urgent measures in the matter of transport does not highlight and does not want to deal with an urgent issue, moreover extraordinarily turned to digital innovation about which yesterday he spoke... [[The microphone works intermittently).]] . amendment that would serve to look to the future, to have automatic guidance, to obtain with confidence, with hope and with the esteem we have of the Italian industry and the intelligence of the Italians, and that would be a message really aimed at the future and the hope of building a better world. Alas, in this case too we will have to try again, but I am sure that the government and undersecretary Bellanova will help us in the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u103	Senator Margiotta, thank you for your resistance to the malfunction of the microphone. Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. He has the right to do so and I invite him to do the same, if there were any problems, because at the moment we are still unable to solve the technical problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u104	Mr President, the problems surrounding Amendment No 3.1, which I shall be talking about at any rate, and the request by more than 15 Members to re-vote the 5th Commission's opinion in accordance with Rule 81, will perhaps be discussed tomorrow in the vote. I should like to point out here that, as Mr Paroli said, in particular, there has been a real falsity here between inadmissibility, inproposability, contrary opinions under Rule 81 and withdrawals. Attention: there are, in fact, also withdrawals, to which the previous speaker referred. Retreats that, evidently, take advantage of the reasons: reasons, frankly, however, for me inscrutable. I'm sorry, but I do. I'll explain. Article 81 was contested, for example, in Amendment 3.1, at my first signature. This amendment was done in this way: it merely provided for an abbreviation of the procedural procedure, which basically says: we are going to a competition of ideas. I say that, from 2012 to today, several projects, contests of ideas and comparisons have been made. So, what's the administrative sense and what's the good administration if after nine years we have to start all over again? In fact, some projects are at a very advanced stage. Some have also been given a favourable environmental impact assessment and I know that others have had a targeting assessment, i.e. a preliminary environmental compatibility assessment. Then there are perhaps other projects. Because, then, do not proceed to the comparative examination of these projects too and then, if any, if none of them were considered suitable, only after, if possible, you should go to the new competition of ideas, that is to say to a re-edition of 2012 and to the return to the past. Attention, why all this involves? In the current text, consider Article 3. As some Members have said very well: the first article is an extension, the second is an extension and the third is a postponement. So, in the end, this decree serves nothing, as it is, except to legitimize the continuation of the passage, with regard to Article 3, in the channel of Giudecca and in front of the basin of San Marco. From 2012 to today, however, the dimensions of passenger ships above all have still increased. Their technical sophistication has still increased. They have a sail surface of about 350,000 square meters. When there's wind, those ships don't even hold three or four tugboats. Those ships must not enter Venice and so had led Minister Franceschini to believe on April 1 when, releasing an interview, he had said that the ships would leave the lagoon. Well, with this decree the ships remain in the lagoon, starting from next 2 June: MSC Cruises has previewed the first entry, then the following week and so on. Then 2019 was damaged by two accidents luckily - luckily only - not tragic. 2020, on the other hand, had basically the protection of Covid, that is Venice in 2020 was protected by Covid, not by us. The Commission's 5th opinion was opposed to that amendment, which is a procedural amendment. I say that we should be thinking in these terms, because Rule 40 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate places at the head of the 5th Commission the duty to indicate what the burdens are and on which financial years those burdens are reflected. It is not the task or duty of the individual Member of Parliament to make a financial report on his amendment, because in this way, in essence, the Member of Parliament is unreasonably deprived of the right-observation, above all, to try to improve the rule. On the other hand, according to the opinion of the 5th Commission, MEPs in proposing the amendment should also draw up a technical report in advance in order to give themselves negative proof that the rule does not impose more burdens on public finances, with a reversal of the burden of proof that is untextual and that it deprives the right to amend the Member. Moreover, the amendment to my signature, as I said, provides for an abbreviation of the iter and therefore a saving, if nothing else in terms of time, which also means to start as soon as possible the solution, the finding of those navigation routes that alone can allow to apply the prohibition provided for in the so-called decree Clini-Passera of 2012: we are in 2021. I'm going on fast, because otherwise we're not on time. The decree-law that we are examining therefore provides for a contest of new ideas, as if nothing had been done so far. On the other hand, we should first check - and this is Amendment 3.1, which I signed first - whether the design ideas, which are final projects, some of which also with the environmental impact assessment (EIA), are acceptable or not. That is what CIPE must say and not an external body which could entail additional expenditure. I note that on Article 3 there has been a real form of schizophrenia, because on March 25, 2021 the Minister of the ecological transition had announced his support for the decree being presented, along with the ministers Giovannini and Garavaglia, but on March 31, 2021, just before the publication of Decree-Law No 45, the Minister of the ecological transition himself sent to the Presidency of the Council and to the Ministers of Culture and Transport an opinion - which I have here - hard negative on the rule in question, an opinion that deserves to be cited extensively. In the opinion it is considered that the absence of a certain timing makes us fear that the competition of ideas provided for in Article 3 - says the Minister of the ecological transition, not Gregorio De Falco - removes the definitive solution of the problem, producing only an idea proposal that would lengthen the times, contradicting, precisely, the will manifested also from the minister Franceschini - we said before - to remove the great ships from the lagoon. We have all said that ships must be removed from the lagoon: but when do we want to do so, in 2070? Why don't we use the projects that are there? Why don't we rule out the entry of ships into the lagoon by law - as proposed by amendment 3.24, at the first signature of Senator Vanin? Why don't we just ban it at this point? Why don't we turn Amendment 3.24 into an agenda that commits the Government to finding, for example, a solution within a year? Why do we abdicate the right to improve laws, making this House completely useless? That schizophrenia to which I referred is the content of this beautiful letter, which I distribute to you and which I leave to the acts together with the text of my speech. It is a three-page letter from the Minister of the ecological transition, in which in the end it is said that for the reasons set out above and for the other reasons that we reserve the right to submit, it is reiterated that in the state the amending proposal - because it was an amendment to the decree Clini-Passera and therefore sought the concert of the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of the infrastructures pursuant to Article 83 of the code of navigation - cannot find acceptance. Why? Because it creates a lot of problems. There is no time limit either for the preparation phase or for the execution phase. Moreover, it says that the incipit of the disposition, which indicates that the development of the crocieristica activity in the territory of Venice and its lagoon as objective however to safeguard, would be in contrast own with the declared and shared purpose to exclude the traffic of the ships from cruises in lagoon. In short, if we ban a contest of ideas today, in reality we are not excluding the ships from the lagoon, we are keeping them. This is the true and effective port of this article 3: to allow the continuation of the docking of the ships from cruise to the marine one of Venice, therefore through the basin of San Marco and the channel of Giudecca. Sooner or later a tragedy will happen and unfortunately it will be so, it is clear. In 2019 there were one behind the other, because those ships are big, they are huge and they are very fragile. If something like this happens in the ocean, nobody knows, but if it happens in Venice we will all know tragically. That's why I say we at least examine the projects that are there and stop the hypocrisies, because otherwise our role here is over and we're just gonna have to... Get out of here. I wanted to subscribe to Amendment 3.24, but it was dropped in the Commission last night and was withdrawn here this afternoon. That's what we're reduced to. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u105	Mr President, I think that I will have to deliver the text of my speech, structured in such a way that it lasts for ten minutes and to deal with the related topics is to Article 1 of the decree-law under consideration, is to other topics relative to the portualità in Sardinia, but not only. Returning to the public service charges, that is what concerns the article, the Ministry has been forced to invite Invitalia to make a contest in order to assign the marine public service between the tracts Civitavecchia-Cagliari-Arbatax, Naples-Cagliari, Cagliari-Palermo, in how much clearly there were no interests from the shipowners in order to assure these tracts despite there was a free price. The State therefore intervenes, guaranteeing subsidies that ensure that the routes are guaranteed. Therefore the notice of invitation to tender has been made, you can detect the dates of the notice, you can also detect the term for the presentation of the manifestations of interest and, just analyzing this term, it has been seen that no company has participated in the notice of invitation to tender. This means that the problem exists and is a big problem that naturally concerns the economic part and, in the approach of the tourist season, also the part of the service goods that transit from and to the island. It is a great problem for those who live on an island and have no other possibility of transport both of the people who want to reach the island, and of the goods that must arrive and of course leave the island. It has therefore been shown that despite the intervention of the State in the notice of invitation to tender, the interest of the shipowner is equal to zero. This of course deserves a more specific attention, especially on the current society that assures the service that it is the Tirrenia or the Italian Company of navigation (CIN), owner of Tirrenia. I have to say, however, that these are problems that are not of interest to the island because they are obviously problems that affect the national level that it must, also through this company, that is, with others, ensure the public service. Having said that, I deliver, as anticipated, the written intervention. I am interested in extending the marathon that took place yesterday on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR). I do so precisely because, according to the PNRR and to those that are the times that Sardinia has been mentioned within the Plan, I am forced to take a position to support the interests of the island. In the PNRR is found the name Sardinia twice and not even for interventions of particularly important character, while, in order to remain in the topic, we can say that it is on the marine topic, for the measures of which I have already spoken, is for other measures, like the Port channel of Cagliari (surely represented like the plan number one for the Cassa for the Mezzogiorno, on which have invested billions of old lire and certainly hundreds of million euros and that has gone into crisis), we will find ourselves shortly, I think in a few days, to have to intervene in order to safeguard the occupation of the workers employed in the section of the Port channel. It is about 350 people who will have to find new relocation, unless, as I hope, the Government, naturally in connection with the Sardinian Region, finds a new relocation of the industrial port of Cagliari for what concerns the transhipment. I would also remind you that in recent years it has had a very interesting use and now probably, even for national choices, you prefer other ports. Also recently they have been made names, starting from the ports of national interest, that they are Genoa and Trieste, we speak of Gioia Tauro and of many other ports that however were in competition with our, that however has an interesting retroporto for what regards the logistics. I therefore invite the Government to reconsider what may be the interest for the Port channel of Cagliari. Leaving however the path of the marine continuity and, if we want, of the harbour marine interest, we pass to that of the aerial continuity, where we have two conditions. The first condition is that the service is provided on the island mainly, in numerical terms, by Alitalia and since the President of the Senate and the quaestors always remind us that we must keep the distances, avoid the assembly and maintain a meter and a half for safety reasons, when entering the planes, I would like to understand where the meter and a half is. In fact you enter one attached to the other and you sit next to the other, and the safety rules are certainly not the best for those who have to use the plane. There is also a great fear for those who must travel and take the plane and myself is among them. But I am not particularly interested in this, while I am more interested in the issue of Air Italy, an airline with several slots, especially very active in Sardinia, which has 1,500 employees. And it can't be that Sardinia takes care of Air Italy's problems. We know that the situation of this company has been resolved in Bonis, but there are 1,500 people waiting to find their place. This cannot be a problem of Sardinia therefore, through my person, I invite the Government to identify the appropriate solutions. I remember, moreover, that it is the second company in Italy, even if participated from Qatar that so much like for other initiatives also on our island, but that many connections has with the Government. I'd like the government itself to take over the situation and see if we can solve Air Italy's problem. [[Call the president back.]] As far as Sardinian roads are concerned, Sardinia does not have a motorway, but it doesn't even have fast roads: it takes about three hours to take Cagliari-Sassari (220 km) if you travel according to the speed permitted by law. The fast road between Olbia and Sassari is still not completed, after decades from the beginning of the works. Shall we talk about the railroads? There are about 450 kilometers of railway network without any electrification, which still uses fuels and gas-climatic, in addition to the fact that in Sardinia some lines have only one track, so one train waits for the other to pass. I would have liked to have spoken about these issues yesterday, but obviously the time available to the Group was already exhausted. However, I find that the theme is that of the external territorial continuity (sea and air) and internal, that is the system of roads and roads that can be crossed with great sacrifices, especially for those people who live in the inner areas and who have difficulty living there and sometimes for this reason abandon them. There is a depopulation of the internal areas that we would like to combat in any way and for which two things are decisive: to have roads that can be crossed and safe and - this concerns the PNRR in a complete way - and to have at least computer connections and super-fast fibers that can allow you not to feel isolated on the island, isolated in an internal area. I would have liked to have deepened these issues, but I take note of the time that is running out and of the President's willingness, whom I would like to thank, by postponing these in-depth discussions to the next occasion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u106	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pergreffi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the President of our Commission, who in this case plays the role of rapporteur, all the members of the Commission and undersecretary Bellanova for these days when we have worked and succeeded in doing so well. [[Applause]] When we talk about topics such as what is on the agenda today, we cannot fail to highlight the objective difficulties encountered by citizens and operators of the road haulage sector: the difficulties and chronicity of the delays of motorization in the examinations for licences and the difficulties in the revisions of heavy goods vehicles. We have therefore tried to incorporate a number of amendments in this measure in order to try to resolve the problems. We are still in a tragic moment in our country and we are struggling, but in this Government we must all have the responsibility - and I say all - to row on the same side, putting aside the ideologies that divide. We are there, to carry our ideas forward, but to be of common sense and shared. We cannot turn to the difficulties of our citizens, we cannot have a short-sighted vision, but we are called to strive together to overcome them. Let us not hide: even in this decree-law we do not find all the definitive solutions we need and, in my opinion, this could be a good opportunity, which has been a bit lost. It is true that the text contains important and awaited measures, but we could make the most of it, in order to integrate it with shared arguments, with a view, as I said, of common sense. In particular, in 2021 it is absurd, it is scandalous that the children, in order to take the exam to obtain the license, in many areas, in particular in my Bergamo, have to wait even more than a year; we are talking about hundreds of thousands of young people waiting. If the situation in some motorizations was already critical in the pre-Covid-19 phase, the period of the Covid-19 has become tragic, with enormous expectations, no longer bearable. Taking a driver's license isn't just a treat for dating friends; for most people it's being able to work, it's an entire sector that goes into trouble and gets into crisis. Let's think about self-schools, car practice agencies, everything about the automotive world. The request of us, but also of the young people, who risk having expired the documentation of the pink sheets, with increased expenses, is an extension of the validity. We thank the undersecretaries Bellanova and Morelli for having listened to our requests and insistences, since the extensions of pink sheets and exams will be inserted - in all probability - in the decree extensions of imminent release, so that they can be immediately active. I hope that the extension of the nautical licences can also be taken into account. Extensions obviously do not solve the problem. The request is to find a structural solution to the problems related to the delays and the personnel of the motorizations. Decree by decree, we are putting pieces made of extensions, of employees who become examiners, of staff in quiescence (in this regard, I urge the implementing decree concerning the recruitment of staff in quiescence), of revisions of the external heavy vehicles, in order to be able to lighten the tasks of the motorization. Above all we do not forget the problem of the road haulage that cannot go abroad. [[Applause]] I insist: at this time more than ever we need efficiency and a structural design for troubleshooting. As far as the transport sector is concerned, I would like to remind you of the problem which we have tried to solve here too, of the payment of the contribution to the operation of the Transport Regulatory Authority, the subject of numerous disputes, with different interpretations. It was necessary, therefore, and we tried to insert in this device an interpretation that filled this normative vacuum, always in the name of common sense, to make people work. In order to return to the race Italy needs to strengthen and simplify the regulations; it also needs good innovation, such as the single document of circulation, to function. We are faced with a necessary extension to overcome the moment due to the emergency from Covid-19, but also with correctives on digital procedures. We remember, however, that precisely the norm previews that the ACI and the organizations more representative of the enterprises exhibiting the activity of advising for the circulation of the means of transport. Here, let's listen. Who, then, is the user of these tools does not close in the offices. I say this with a constructive spirit, precisely because we are at a time when we must - with iron, cement and coffers - throw the foundations of our country. Moving on to what concerns the discipline of the crocieristico traffic in the lagoon of Venice, we cannot forget the precious context in which this norm is established. Venice is a jewel to be preserved, not only for Italy, but also for the whole world; but it must be a city and not a museum or amusement park. It is absolutely necessary to strike a balance between its protection (and we all agree) and its economy, its workers, its enterprises, its being a city with its inhabitants, listening to those who live it and who represent it. It takes a balance between environmental sustainability and the economy of such an important place for everyone. Politics is taking responsibility, listening, confronting and deciding. We are well on our way to concerting the instruments for the good of the citizens we represent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u108	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u109	Mr President, undersecretary Bellanova, first of all I would like to thank President Coltorti, the rapporteur for the measure, for making me want to speak, because I was wondering how important a measure of only three articles could be; instead, it is very important, because it concerns a fundamental political issue, that of ecological transition. And it touches it in two aspects: both with regard to territorial continuity and therefore to the marine transport, and for the safeguard of the lagoon of Venice. Looking at the first part, therefore at territorial continuity, there the ecological transition comes out with much force also with that concept of solidarity. The ecological transition is solidarity, because we try to guarantee public service to large areas of the country, in particular to the islands Sicily, Sardinia and the smaller islands. This is fundamental for our country, which seen from above is nothing but a leaf in the middle of the sea. Therefore, that maritime transport that we use for territorial continuity should actually be the priority transport for passengers and goods in our country. Today is the time to hand us over to the conscience and have the courage to make choices that go in that direction, provided that it is in the direction of sustainable maritime transport. It is therefore necessary to think of a supply of ships that is not only from fossil sources, but also from green energy (yesterday President Draghi spoke of green hydrogen), or rather from other sources of energy. In this I join also to the request made to the Government so that it tries to realize really a plan of electrification of the docks of the various ports that we have in Italy, because it must be made so that the ships, when docked, do not consume fossil fuel, but use current coming from renewable sources. I still remember yesterday's words of President Draghi, when he reminded us how more than 600 million are destined to the ports, also of the South, like Gioia Tauro, Naples (from which many ships depart for the territorial continuity) and Taranto. Going back to the Venice lagoon, jewel of the world (as Senator Pergreffi recalled), I make my own the words of the senator and colleague Margiotta, when he said he was happy that some amendments had been withdrawn, because they could put stakes in the choices of the design ban still to be made. I agree with that, because we can debate politically as much as we want, but if this problem still exists we must tell the truth: much of the blame is perhaps just politics. Then we should have the courage to entrust these design choices and the elaboration of ideas to people who are not politically and mentally free to give a real future to Venice, which is not the son of politics. In fact, if it is true that Italy is a leaf in the sea, it is also true that it is one of the most vulnerable and fragile countries from the hydrogeological point of view in the world. Then we are often here to do interventions at the beginning or end of the session, to talk about deaths from floods, landslides and earthquakes (there is also coastal erosion) and now that we can give a true signal of protection of the territory, we must have the courage to do so. In my opinion, if a channel over time is built, but nature always strives to fill it, it means that maybe that channel should be left free. And those who must decide the future for the preservation of Venice must be free from the political direction. [[Applause]] This is my wish in Venice, to the Italians and to all of us. I would like to conclude by recalling one thing: there are some colleagues who have said that Venice cannot live without tourism. In fact, the hope that we should all have is that this design ban will allow us to carry out works and interventions that can safeguard Venice and the lagoon of Venice from excessive speculations of tourism... [[Applause]] ...and at most it can make possible a virtuous tourism that instead respects the needs of Venice and its lagoon. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u110	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law. I just have to give the House a statement on a request that has been made. Senator De Falco has requested the acquisition of a document relating to internal communications to the Offices. After thorough examination and verification, under the Rules of Procedure, this Presidency considers that it cannot acquire a document, because interventions can be acquired, reports if they are more extensive, and exceptionally tables and lists of data can be acquired, names and numbers, obviously failing to read them in this House. Therefore the indication of the Regulation is absolutely not exemplifying but indicative and therefore I do not have the acquisition of the so-called annex that Senator De Falco has requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u113	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, the Teatro dell'Opera in Rome recently proposed two repertoire works using the spaces of the Costanzi theatre; works that were broadcast on national radio and TV channels, with considerable appreciation. Next August 2 will fall the first centenary of the disappearance of Enrico Caruso, an event that will be remembered with different events in Italy and in the world. I have recently expressed my reservations in this House about the composition of the committee set up for this purpose by the Ministry of Culture. Today I would like to point out to you, Madam President, that the interest aroused by the above-mentioned initiatives of the Opera House in Rome and the worldwide importance of the centenary of Caruso's disappearance can already be a first motivation, a first step to justify the need to include Italian melodrama among the common goods to be protected at national and international level, also to protect it from possible attempts to distort its philological structure, with the aim of justifying personal interpretations that go far beyond what some define intellectual freedom. In the name of this intellectual freedom today we often witness unthinkable settings at the time of Caruso (so much to remain on the subject), which upset the structure of melodramas that foresee precise historical, environmental and temporal contexts, as if their original artistic production became a sort of private property unduly acquired and made available to those who want to experience their own interpretations that have nothing to do with the dramaturgic and scenic structure established by the authors. A work of material art, Madam President, such as a painting or a sculpture, always remains that one over the centuries and cannot be changed whenever it is exhibited in such a museum or such a museum, changing its connotations at the discretion of the director. The same must happen for intangible works of art. Therefore, intellectual freedom yes, but within borders that must be protected even after years, decades or centuries from the disappearance of the authors. In conclusion, I hope that from the institutions, possibly assisted by the same lyric foundations or by other public or private bodies, the appropriate formal procedures will be initiated to request the Italian National Commission for UNESCO that the Italian melodrama be included among the assets protected by UNESCO as an immaterial asset of humanity, a good that also the art of Enrico Caruso has contributed to making this [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u116	COLTORTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, five months ago I had already pointed out the very incorrect behaviour of Marco Ugo Filisetti, the director-general of the school office in Marche, who sent the students a nostalgic letter of fascism on 4 November last, recalling a speech by the author. Unfortunately, today I have to denounce a further gruesome episode that sees him as the protagonist of historical revisionism. On the eve of the Feast of Liberation, the leader signed a message addressed to the students of the Marches in which he recalls April 25, inviting them to commemorate all the fallen of the Second World War, without distinction of part, exalting their respective reasons and their dreams in the equalization between partisans and Nazi fascists. Filisetti is able to speak about Liberation without using the two fundamental words of the narrative of history: Partisans and Fascism. Of course, trade unions and the political world have moved to ask Mr Bianchi to intervene as soon as possible, but since this is a relapse, this time I really hope that Filisetti will be removed from office as soon as possible. The Movimento 5 Stars is neither right nor left, but we certainly do not hesitate to state firmly that we are profoundly anti-fascist. [[Applause.]] Moreover, the fates of this character are doubly unacceptable, both because a public leader cannot use such revisionist tones, and because these words are addressed to students, to young minds who know nothing or little about history. Imagine if a distorted message is sent to them: what would remain of the historical memory of our recent past? It is sacred to weep all the fallen, because human life is sacred. But above all those who have died for our freedom and future generations are crying. We cannot and must not forget the millions of blameless deaths among civilians in concentration camps. There are easily recognizable reasons and wrongs and fortunately the end of the Second World War was determined by the victory of the allied forces, otherwise we would certainly not live in democracy and freedom now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u119	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, today I am being urged by what happened between Saturday and Sunday, in conjunction with the celebration of the Liberation Day, and denounced by activist Aboubakar Soumahoro in a recent article on the shooting of farm workers by gangs of criminals. I like to take the floor, because I have the pleasure of giving visibility in this House too, with an intervention at the end of the sitting, to these invisible migrants, who, although invisible, are essential to keep a sector as important as agriculture. It was they who guaranteed us fresh fruits and vegetables during the darkest days of the pandemic, let's not forget it. It is therefore necessary to give them the right credit and a minimum of consideration. In our Constitution, the first article clearly states that ours is a democratic republic based on work. Now, is it possible that today in our national territory there can be dehumanizing processes that degrade the dignity of thousands of men who, by the mere fact of being migrants, are downgraded to subhuman categories? I don't think so. Our Christian and democratic culture cannot tolerate this. We must begin to see that work together maintains the link between the state of democracy's health and the dignified conditions of workers. This type of discrimination is not separated from that of gender inequality; in my opinion they travel on the same track. At this point I can not fail to remember the excellent figure of Agitu Gudeta, entrepreneur of Ethiopian origin and activist, poorly tolerated in his country of origin. This woman has revitalized an entire economic sector: she has come up with the idea of saving an indigenous breed of sheep in the province of Trento, the Mochen breed, and at the same time has recovered grazing areas at risk of abandonment. It has started a virtuous economy that the Trentino country is continuing to carry on. The foreigners present in Italy are therefore a valuable resource, both in economic terms and in cultural terms. Let us learn for a good time to recognize the opportunities of history. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u120	Thank you for your speech, Senator Leone.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u123	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Madam President, this evening I would like to recall, here in this House, Nadia De Munari, a secular missionary, an extraordinary person who was violently killed in Peru on Wednesday. Originally from the province of Vicenza, Schio, a place where volunteering belongs to the DNA of every citizen, she was an extraordinary woman, who dedicated her whole life to others. She was a kindergarten teacher and in 1990 she left for Ecuador. She then moved to Peru, in 1995, to help the poorest children, who lived in the mountains and was the only one who frequented those places, often of the slums, where it was difficult even to enter. In these places, with other volunteers from Operation Mato Grosso, he ran six kindergartens and an elementary school. We know that this missionary movement, founded in 1967 by the Salesian Don Ugo De Censi, has helped, in many areas of the world, especially in South America, many children, families and people in difficulty. This woman believed, in a convinced way, that in order to change the social fabric of those abandoned, poor and disadvantaged places, she needed above all to offer love, education and formation and that we should start with the little ones, because she said that this is the only way to improve the world. Even today I want to remember this simple woman, sunny and frank, who rightly someone called a martyr, like many and many Italian volunteers, who in the world honor us with the work and commitment they put at the service of others every day. I want to give a big hug from this House to your family, to the whole community and to the people who loved you. Madam President, I hope that this extraordinary woman, just fifty years old, will be remembered together with the many people who are no longer there and who have always made a commitment to defending human rights. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u124	Senator Sbrollini, the Presidency and the Assembly naturally join in the mourning of the family and also in its public emphasis.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u125	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-321.ana.u126	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 29 April, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.54 p.m.
