ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3 01165 on anti-counterfeiting policies will be dealt with first, including in relation to the CETA Treaty with Canada. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I should like to point out first of all that the global economic and trade agreement between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and Canada on the other includes both the registration and protection of geographical indications originating in the Member States of the European Union in Canada - including the Italian ones - and the possibility of increasing the number of protected geographical indications in Canada in the future. In relation to the question of the ineffectiveness of the agreement against food counterfeiting, I would point out that the protection of the quality and certification of our products of excellence exported to the Canadian market is ensured by the protection which, according to the CETA itself, has been guaranteed to geographical indications included in a special list attached to it. With this provision, Canada, traditionally foreign to this type of system because it is oriented to the system of trademarks, has recognized a number of European geographical indications, of which 41 Italians, which, moreover, represent about 90% of the value of our exports PDO and PGI to Canada and are added to those of wines, already recognized and protected. Moreover, since the list is open, as mentioned above, the latter can subsequently be supplemented by new geographical indications which should be recognised at European level by a decision taken by the Committee provided for by CETA. Further, Canada, following the amendment of its Trade Mark Law, has provided for the possibility of obtaining protection also for geographical indications already existing in the European Union, but not included in the Annex to the Agreement, upon direct request to the Canadian intellectual property office. Since the first day of provisional application of CETA, therefore, the 125 European geographical indications have begun to benefit from full protection through the Agreement and this result has allowed to resolve the phenomenon of Italian soiling and counterfeiting of some of our products of agri-food excellence. As for the geographical indications for which co-existence with brands previously registered in Canada has been envisaged (in particular, Parmigiano Reggiano, three Italian ham and three of our cheeses), this solution, identified to protect the rights acquired by local operators, has nevertheless allowed the protection of some European products considered until then generic names, in addition to allowing the marketing of some products, in particular Parma ham. The latter, in fact, before CETA could not be placed on the Canadian market under its name, but only as an original ham, given the existence of a trademark "Parma" registered forty years earlier. In addition, the Agreement contains specific provisions against italian soiling, such as the prohibition of evocation for non-originating products (i.e. the prohibition of the use of symbols, photos, colors and the like that may evoke the origin of the geographical indication), the obligation to indicate the origin on the label in a clear and visible way, the obligation to further differentiate for products introduced on the market after a certain date, which will have to bear the words "style/imitation" and so on, as well as the possibility of administrative appeal by the holders of intellectual property rights of the individual geographical indications. As far as the above is concerned, and with reference to the further importance of the honourable Member with regard to the importation into the European Union of products of Canadian descent, it is clear that European legislation expressly prohibits their marketing, since the term "Parmesan" is not generic, but represents an evocation of the designation "Parmigiano Reggiano" and as such cannot be used in the European Union for cheeses which do not comply with the rules of the Italian PDO. Any cases of import that violate the exclusive right in the Union of the PDO "Parmigiano Reggiano" and its synonyms may be reported to the competent authorities of the Member States - in the case of Italy, is the central inspectorate for the protection of quality and repression fraud of agri-food products (ICQRF) of the Ministry for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies, pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 - which have an obligation to take appropriate administrative and judicial measures to prevent or stop the illicit use of protected geographical indications, produced or marketed in the Member State. This provision has been strongly desired by Italy as it aims to empower the authorities of the Member States. Moreover, Regulation (EU) No 608/2103 ensures customs protection of all intellectual property rights - including geographical indications - registered in the European Union. But even the Consortium for the protection of Parmigiano Reggiano - it must be pointed out - carries out, like all consortia recognized under law, a constant control action in the single market, legitimized also by Article 54 of the aforementioned EU Regulation n. 1151/2012, reporting cases of violation of the law, directly or through the ICQRF, to the competent authorities of the other Member States. In relation then to the issue of the protection of products on the Italian market and the respect of the labelling requirements for the protection of the consumer, I would like to point out that the provision of clear, understandable and legible information on food for the protection of consumers - a subject harmonised at European level, where the EU Regulation 1139/2004 ensures a high level of consumer protection, regulating all aspects of labelling - is a matter of utmost importance and commitment for this Ministry. This is proof, for example, of the letter signed in March last year jointly by Minister Bellanova and the Minister for Economic Development Stefano Patuanelli, sent to the European Commissioners for Health and Agriculture, in which Italy asked that the obligation of origin of the raw materials on the label be extended to all foods, starting from a quick choice on the products on which we have already experienced in recent years such as milk, cheese, processed meat, pasta, rice, tomato derivatives. With this in mind, these Ministers notified Brussels of the extension until 31 December 2021 of the Decree of 9 December 2016 on milk and cheese and then signed the Ministerial Decree of 1 April 2020, which also extends the mandatory provisions for the indication of the origin, on label, of durum wheat paste for durum wheat semolina, rice and tomato derivatives to 31 December 2021. This is in the belief that in the Farm to Fork strategy the compulsory origin must be a central theme, precisely because since that phrase translates from the field to the table, the mandatory origin declines to the best this requirement, so that on the label the consumer has the perception of the entire path of traceability. As regards control activities, with specific reference to the control activities carried out by the Central Inspection of Quality Protection and fraud prevention of agri-food products (ICQRF), the latter is given the utmost attention when verifying the indication of origin on agri-food products. This is also done by means of sample traceability checks, in order to verify its truthfulness, to combat the phenomenon of Italian soiling, to protect the made in Italy and the most representative productions in this area, with particular reference to those protected by specific EU legislation (DOP and PGI products). Through the systems of assistance and cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union Administrative assistance and cooperation system (AAC) and Food fraud network (FF), of which the ICQRF is the contact point for Italy together with the Ministry of Health, the reports exchanged with the authorities of other Member States concerning irregularities found on labelling devices are processed. Specific protocols of understanding with the main online trading platforms (eBay, Amazon, Alibaba) have also been signed on web-based trade at the level, strengthening the protection of consumers who use the above-mentioned e-commerce platforms, as well as the promotion, enhancement and information on Italian PDO and PGI productions, so that the phenomena of usurpation of Italian quality registered names are contrasted in the online market. In view of the concerns expressed by the honourable Member about the fact that Italy's ratification of CETA - instead of representing an opportunity for our nation - would, on the contrary, result in a vehicle facilitating the import of agri-food products with lower safety standards than those of Europe, I would point out that all agri-food products from Canada will have to comply with European health and plant health regulations, including the rules governing access to genetically modified organisms and products. Similarly, due to the precautionary principle - which, as provided for in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), Article 191, is mandatory and cannot be amended or repealed by any international agreement, including CETA - and the health and phytosanitary regulations, products treated with substances prohibited as harmful (to date, the use of ESMA is still authorised in the European Union) or of which there is no scientific evidence of harmfulness, but of which there is a suspicion of any risk to human health, will not be able to enter the internal market of the European Union. Therefore, since the precautionary principle remains valid, the European Union will continue to apply its legislation on the prohibition of hormones for animal breeding, as provided for in Directive 96/22/EC, as amended by Directive 2003/74/EC. In addition, imports of untreated meat from third countries using hormones for breeding for their internal market are only possible where segregation of herds is ensured, which also applies to the use of antibiotics banned in the European Union, as provided for in Directive 96/23/EC. The CETA has not, of course, changed the regulatory framework. This principle was reaffirmed for the sake of clarity in the declarations annexed to the European Council procedure for the adoption of the decision to authorise the signature of CETA on behalf of the Union. Finally, as far as the specific issue of GMOs is concerned, it should be recalled that, with the implementation of Directive 2009/12/EU, the definitive prohibition on the cultivation of all varieties of MON810 maize in Italy (Commission Decision 321 of 3 March 2016) and all transgenic maize which are still being authorised for placing on the market has been established. The cultivation of these transgenic maize, authorised or authorised, is punished with the penalties provided for in Article 35-a of Legislative Decree no. 224 of 8 July 2003. To date, no new application has been made for marketing authorisations for the cultivation of new GMOs, neither for maize nor for other species. Therefore, the current legislative system allows action to be taken on all new GMOs for which European authorisation for cultivation is sought and at the same time the sanctioning system is capable of punishing all possible cases of infringement of the rules in force. As regards the legislation on labelling systems for food and feed containing genetically modified organisms, it is recalled that products, whether food or feed, consisting of, containing or derived from GMOs, are subject to the labelling and traceability requirements laid down in Community Regulations No 1829/2003 and No This ensures that information is provided to consumers and users of such products, allowing them to make a conscious choice. Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 provides that food derived from GMOs intended for the final consumer or suppliers of food for the general public should be labelled with the indication of the presence of GMOs. In addition, by Regulation No 1830 of 2003 genetically modified foods must also comply with the traceability requirements defined as the ability to trace GMOs and products produced from GMOs at all stages from the placing on the market through the production and distribution chain. In order to ensure traceability, operators handling products containing, consisting of, or produced from GMOs shall be required to provide specific information to the next operator in the supply chain at all stages of production and distribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u6	In giving her the floor, I would like to invite the Government to a possible summary in the illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u7	I call Mr Calandrini. Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, before entering into the substance of the question, which is very interesting, it must be stressed that today's answer from the Undersecretary L'Abbate is out of time because the act of inspection union is dated October 2019. It is therefore coming to the House after a year and three months, but the nicest thing is that it comes when the Minister for Agricultural Policy is no longer present. As you know, since yesterday he is no longer Minister of the Republic and probably, in a few hours, there will be no more a Government that can represent the demands and everything that quickly presented to us today the Undersecretary L'Abbate on the three issues that I have posed as critical to know what the Government thought. Today we have a government in this House that is actually gone. The three issues, which the Undersecretary addressed very quickly, are the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), GMOs and the protection of Italian products. Undersecretary, coming to the specific theme, I want to say with concreteness that we of Brothers of Italy are interested that in the matter of treaties - and in this case, with this international treaty - the producer and the Italian consumer are being protected first of all. We expect from those who govern, regardless of the Government and hoping that soon there will be a center-right government in Italy, the greatest commitment to defend the name and quality of our products, which are the best in the world. We expect that with regard to any State the Government will contrast those who play to imitate our products of value with similar products - you have referred several times to Parmesan - which have nothing to do with ours, but which somehow deceive consumers and threaten the economic and productive system of the country system. We have been fighting for many years for products that end up on our tables to have labelling and traceability, as you said, so that we can trace the origins and ingredients before that product can become a food. We, as a parliamentary group and as a party with our leader, Giorgia Meloni, will always keep our attention high before any agreement - in this case it is CETA, an international agreement with Canada - because first of all for us come Italy, our economy and our production system. Therefore, we will never expose the Italians to foolish choices that can undermine these priorities. Undersecretary, I thank you for your answer, although we are not satisfied, also because, as I said in the preamble, it comes out of maximum time and when the Government can no longer do anything because it has all been dusted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u8	Questions 3-01127 and 3-0163 on the Italian Youth Hotels Association follow. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u9	Mr President, Senator Binetti, together with other colleagues, asks what initiatives are being taken to safeguard the activities and functions of the Italian Youth Hotels Association and to support tourism among the most disadvantaged groups, particularly among young people. According to its statute, the Italian Association of Youth Hotels (IGA), constituted by act of 19 December 1945, is a non-profit national charitable body. The association has for institutional purpose the promotion of youth tourism through the realization and management of youth hostels and the implementation of any other initiative suitable to promote the moral, cultural and physical improvement of youth through the practice of tourism, considered an irreplaceable means for the social promotion of young people and to promote their mutual knowledge. At international level, the IGA is a member and the only representative for Italy of the International Federation of Youth Hostels, the world's largest body responsible for the reception of young people. During the conversion to the Senate of Decree-Law No 101 of 3 September 2019, which included urgent provisions for the protection of work and for the resolution of corporate crises The new EIG would become part of the economic promotion agencies, with a new set of 57 units. It also provided for the appointment of an Extraordinary Commissioner for the purposes of the statutory adjustment and for the orderly transfer of assets and functions to the new institution, as well as for the definition of pending reports under the IGA. The burden that the State would have borne from 2020 would have been €1.7 million per year. The Government, today as a year ago, is willing to positively assess a similar legislative proposal to address and resolve the current situation of the Italian Association of Youth Hotels and safeguard the activities and functions that it carries out.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u12	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to say to the representative of the Government that I have not quite understood what concrete actions can be put in place to safeguard this heritage, which is not only a heritage of our country, but is a value for so many young people and for the less well-off people, who have found in these spaces and in these places important landmarks for tourist activity. I also do not understand how families can be protected (we are talking about about about 200 workers and their families), which are at risk for the crisis situation in which the Italian Association of Youth Hotels, which could end its glorious experience. The question I submitted dates back to August 2019. In the meantime, two budget laws have passed, in the course of which amendments have been tabled in this respect by several Members, not only by myself. Then there were other legislative measures proposed by the Government to Parliament, to which amendments were attached which tried to resolve this situation. We are in January 2021 and there is still no configuration of a solution that can be defined as such. I really ask for an additional effort, because there have been opportunities to save this experience. If we want to save it, as I think Parliament has asked for several times over the past almost two years, even in a cross-cutting way, I believe that we must do so. Parliament has given a clear direction; it is now up to the Government to identify the appropriate instrument for implementing this request which comes across Parliament. I would ask for an additional effort, which is truly decisive.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u15	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). With all due respect and thanks to Undersecretary L'Abbate for his presence in this House and for the kindness with which he replied, albeit in a unsatisfactory way, to the questions asked, I would point out that personally I would have expected the presence of Minister Franceschini, that is, of the Minister who has a delegation to tourism, or of the Minister who in some way has a delegation to youth. For Christ's sake, agriculture is always good, but it is certainly not the heart of the problem. This already shows that there is little interest in the specific nature of the question. What we are experiencing is one of the most dramatic economic and health emergencies that the country has ever gone through - it is said - since the end of the Second World War and we are faced with a situation in which we have all the tourism blocked, with a dry loss that will make it take years before the sector can be put back in motion. In the context, however, of this tourism that we could call non-profit, a service tourism, we have the tourism of young people, that is that availability that allows a young person to broaden the cultural horizons and also of the social perspective, through this activity of movement that allows Italian children to have the experience to go abroad and to those who come from abroad to come to Italy. It is clear that in lockdown, just as we are all locked in - and the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers represents a further limitation to what we could call individual freedoms - we are depriving our young people of the school in presence, of any cultural experiences, even of deepening, those related to university life and traineeships, and in this case also of that ability to enlarge horizons. Let us not forget, however, that it was precisely the youth hotels that passed in the 1960s - and this is not an indifferent element - from the original name of moral bodies to that of welfare agencies, because it seemed that there was some economic and organizational need to assist young people in their movements, then the current one of cultural bodies. We are, therefore, once again considering the world of young people in the worst possible way, i.e. not considering it. Clearly the answer and also the intervention of the previous speaker seem to look with greater interest at the guarantee of jobs, but we know that this guarantee is suspended on the wire, that we could call at this moment the famous wire of the integrated fund and that it will still be subjected to the trap of 30 March, when the ban on dismissals will cease. We are faced with a political attitude capable of pouring into this sector all the blindness of a country that does not really consider tourism its black gold. The example of tourism as the country's black gold is an example that Minister Franceschini, Minister for two legislatures, made. Now we do not know what will happen in the next Government: perhaps Minister Franceschini will become the Head of Government and maybe, if it were to be so, will attribute to tourism and culture a far greater importance than the one up to now, but we know that this sort of black gold, which is Italian tourism, has never managed to be taken into proper consideration as the richness proper to the country, an economic richness, a food and wine richness - and this certainly also concerns its skills - a cultural richness that is made up of tradition, but also of the ability to look forward. I think it is ridiculous to ask this question about youth hotels: when my colleague presented his question, as you know, there was still no pandemic, when I presented mine we were in the phase of broadening horizons, in the perspective of returning to a potential normality, while today we are plunged into a dramatic black hole from which we do not even know when and how we can get out, given the impossibility of passing from one municipality to another or from one region to another. This means grave shortsightedness of government, from a cultural, economic, social and organizational point of view, and means blindness to the rights of the new generations. Other than the recovery plan as the right of next generation! This is really blindness. So I can only take advantage of this moment, to say that we hope that some good can come from evil. Certainly, so far, the premises are not there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u18	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak very briefly to ask you to suspend our work, because, even if you take up the comments of my previous colleagues, it seems to me that we are faced with a paradoxical situation. In fact, we are here to listen to the answers of a government, which in essence is no longer there, as evidenced by the fact that we have a Undersecretary, who is responding on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Policy, who resigned yesterday. We are therefore faced with a paradoxical and absurd situation and I believe that it would be respectful of the dignity of this House to suspend our work, while waiting for the crisis to be clarified, so that Parliament has as its interlocutor a real government and not just the hologram of a government that no longer exists.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u19	Senator Balboni, I understand the reasons for your request and I would also personally agree with you, but I believe that such a decision is a matter for the President of the Senate, whom I will immediately inform of your request. So for the time being, let us continue with our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u20	Following is the question 3-01825 on the demolition of a valuable architectural asset in Giugliano in Campania, in the province of Naples. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators Corrado, together with other fellow senators, is asking for news on the demolition of parts of the factories in the agricultural village called Zaccarino and on the state of conservation of the church of San Francesco d'Assisi, in the countryside of Giugliano, in the province of Naples. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the territory of Giugliano is not protected from a landscape point of view and that the farm in question is not subject to protection measures, not even from an archaeological point of view. In the absence of protective measures, the Superintendence was not involved in the authorization procedure of the work in progress and learned of the demolition, confirmed by the inspection carried out on 13 July 2020, only following the news appeared in the newspapers. Also from an archive search, it has emerged that in 2018 has been advanced, from privates, a request for certification constraints, based on the identification of the good only through cadastral data. This certification was then issued with negative results. Following the inspection, carried out on 13 July by officials of the Superintendence, it emerged the opportunity to submit to protection the small church of San Francesco d'Assisi, located in the immediate vicinity of the farm, along Via Grotta dell'Olmo, and perhaps part of the same complex. With regard to the question put by the questioner on the proposal of collaboration between the Superintendence and the Municipality, it is informed that the Superintendence, with note of 15 July 2020, invited the Municipality of Giugliano to jointly promote the census of valuable properties existing in the municipal territory and requested, in the context of a desirable institutional collaboration, timely information on the building activities in progress, related to real estate of private persons not subject to protection measures, over seventy years of age, in order to carry out a preventive verification activity on the possible existence of architectural and historical-artistic interest.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u24	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for explaining to this House the reply from the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, of which I cannot be satisfied, and I would like to explain. In the meantime, I note shortcomings even in the reconstruction of the facts, since the demolition we are talking about dates back to 9 July. On the same day, the excellent journalist Claudia Procentese published a post on her Facebook page, through which, with absolutely speaking images, the national community came to know of this demolition, realized in a few hours the same day, so always on July 9 last, so much that then, as the Undersecretary said, the inspection of the Superintendence for the metropolitan area of Naples is of July 13. In a few hours, the building complex - which was owed to Baron Giovanni Battista Orineti, who had purchased the manor in 1711 - was completely demolished, to create a so-called reconstruction, which maintains the same cube of the previous building, which was however an eighteenth-century farmhouse, creating 48 apartments and a large communal swimming pool with a basement floor for garages. This means that regional law n. 19 of 2009 has been applied, the so-called house plan, which in Campania allows reconstructions even with increase of cubation, where there is no prohibition regarding any requirements of the Superintendence. You will forgive the expression, but the Ministry cannot "cable" it claiming that the property was not protected. Indeed, there was no direct constraint or protection of this building, which certainly had an identity value for the population and which had actually so far escaped the aims of the palazzinars only because of the proximity to some landfills, in particular that of Settecaineti. However, before deciding its fate, the Superintendence or the Municipality (a territorial body) should have initiated the process of verifying the cultural interest. It has not been done or requested. The Superintendence claims that it had been aware of what was happening at the time of the demolition, but admits that eighteen months earlier, i.e. in January 2019, on the basis of a request from the previous October, it had answered a question on the situation of constraints by the notary headed by the company that carried out the demolition. This should have been an alarm bell, such as simply to induce the Superintendence, or someone within it - we are talking about this, not about street people - to make a phone call to the Municipality of Giugliano to know if it had given or was giving permission to demolish a historic building, on which there was no explicit constraint, but certainly, being eighteenth-century, had passed the seventy years, then it was protected ex lege. There was therefore an involuntary complicity in turning the look on the other side and missed an important piece of the history of the territory. I would like to make sense of this sacrifice of the Orineti farmhouse in Giugliano, as I did, moreover, with my colleague Mariolina Castellone, going to the place on 18 July and talking to the prefectial commissioner, because the Giunta Pozillo, the one who gave the authorization, fell in January 2020, so there was Commissioner Cimmino. The associations Italia Nostra and Architetti in rete (AIR) have made a proposal for the acquisition of an article within the general regulatory plan (PRG) in force of protection of the historical rural building. This is a problem across the country. A national strategy is needed to protect the historical rural heritage. I am not talking about the historical centers and the proposal to protect the Bianchi Bandinelli Association, because it would take much longer; however, throughout the country we are really in a very high danger, that is, we risk every day losing all the Renaissance and modern building (thousands of buildings, which are our history and our territory) and losing the context in which it is inserted. It is an emergency of the country, which passes under silence also because of the strategy that currently leads the Ministry for cultural goods and activities and for tourism - which - as I have been told in response to a question - has taken as the objective of protection only the contrast to the underground excavations, where instead this, in the light of Article 9 of the Constitution, is anything else and is inseparable from the valorization. I therefore hope that this sacrifice of the farm of Giuliano will not be completely lost and there can be a rethinking of the policies of the Ministry for cultural goods and activities and for tourism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u25	Questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u28	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, taking up what Mr Balboni said earlier. Even the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione believes that it is absurd and paradoxical that we should continue at this stage of questions while the government is faltering and, above all, the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, who should have been present today to answer, resigned yesterday. I too, on behalf of the Group that I have the honour to represent, ask for the suspension of the work of this House and ask you, Mr President, to ask for the answer you have requested from Mr Casellati. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u31	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council, Count, at the time, said that he would like to bring a possible crisis to Parliament and that one of the political forces supporting the Government has decided to withdraw two of its members from the Council of Ministers clearly tells us that, precisely, the crisis has opened. We await and expect the President-in-Office of the Council soon to come to formalize what is in the matter, that is, to go to the Quirinale to draw the consequences of what has happened. Certainly, it is dignified that the Senate is informed and involved in the matter and that the matter does not remain in buildings outside those where, instead, there is the representation of the Italian people, on the basis of what the Constitution indicates. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u34	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I sincerely hoped that you would accept my request just now. I note that you considered it more appropriate to inform the President of the Senate, whose answer I hope will arrive at least this afternoon, since, as you know, the question time is expected to take place. However, I believe that in the face of this situation it is necessary - my formal request, Mr President - for President Conte to come immediately to the Senate to report on the serious crisis that the country is going through. I do not need to remind you and all colleagues of the dramatic health and economic situation that the whole country is living. We cannot stay a minute longer in this situation of grave uncertainty; we do not know if the Government is there or is not there. Mr President, I would therefore like to ask you formally for President Conte to report immediately to Parliament on the situation that the country is going through. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u37	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I have listened to the speeches made by my colleagues in the opposition, who seem to me to be legitimate - and, of course, they will also bring their reasons to the Conference of the Leaders - but something else needs to be specified, namely that the Government is definitely there at the moment; it will happen that President Mattarella must keep him alive or not through his authoritative voice. It is legitimate to put this issue in the Chamber - although I repeat that it will be dealt with in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) - because, of course, no one hides the delicacy of the moment, but to say that the Government is not wrong and is, as usual, information that continues to destabilise a country which, Mr President, is already strongly and understandably disliked by what is happening. Basically, this is also an instrumentalization: the Government is there and there is a President of the Council; it will be seen in the appropriate fora whether and how the President of the Council will report to the Chambers - as he has always done, among other things - but this has nothing to do with what the opposition is supporting, but at a time when the Assembly is not even in the fullness of its composition. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u38	Colleagues, I have reported to the President the request for suspension and, above all, the request for the President of the Council to speak formally in this House, and the President asks me to inform the House that the Conference of Presidents of the Groups is convened at 10.30 a.m. and then in 15 minutes. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m., unless the Conference of Leaders decides otherwise, with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 10.16 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Colleagues, I would like to say that the Conference of Leaders has agreed not to ask questions immediately, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the agenda for today's sitting. The sitting is therefore suspended and will resume at the end of the meeting of the Conference of Leaders convened at 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 8.29 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u39	I say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 14 January 2021 Dear President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, with his own decree adopted today on my proposal, has accepted the resignation resigned by Senator Teresa BELLANOVA from the post of Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy. With the same decree, the President of the Republic has given me the task of managing the aforementioned Dicastery as an interim measure. The President of the Republic, with his own decrees adopted today on my proposal, has also accepted the resignation resigned by Professor Elena BONETTI from the post of Minister without portfolio and from Mr. Dr. Mr Ivan SCALFAROTTO from the post of State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. With heartfelt cordiality, F.to Giuseppe Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u40	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Health and the Minister for the Interior: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 2 of 14 January 2021 laying down further urgent provisions on containment and prevention of the epidemiological emergency from COVID-19 and the holding of elections for the year 2021" (2066).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u41	The Conference of Leaders decided that on Tuesday 19 January, at 9.30 a.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications to the Senate on the current political situation. The timing distribution between the groups for the discussion is as follows: [[M5S 1 h. L-SP-PSd'Az 50' FIBP-UDC 40' PD 30' Mixed 40' FdI 30' IV-PSI 30' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20']] Explanations of vote on any address instruments presented will follow. The organisation of work will have to take account of Parliament's sanitization times.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u44	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am simply speaking because, as the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, we are absolutely opposed to this hypothesis of calendarization and, above all, the willingness given by President Conte to come to the Senate to report with communications on what has happened and on the political crisis that is taking place only on next Tuesday. Starting from the words of the President of the Republic, in which we absolutely trust, who already yesterday asked President Conte to get out of the uncertainty about the future of the government quickly, we would have expected the President of the Council to report to the House today. [[Applause]] and not on next Tuesday. Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday: six days pass! [[Comments]] It's really unbelievable. Given the dramatic situation in our country, both in terms of health and economic matters, in the face of the resignation of two ministers, the President of the Council should have gone straight to the Chamber to say that he has a majority, or, if he does not have it, to resign, so that the President of the Republic can undertake the round of consultations and speed up the procedures, in order to give a new government to the country if necessary. That is the real problem and it is the real scandal. Among other things, what was then consumed in the Conference of Group Leaders, both this morning and this evening, has a bit of the grotesque, because in the Conference of Group Leaders this morning, the majority - if there is still and that is what it is: this is all to be assessed and we will see it - even imagined to carry forward first the budgetary deviation and then to close the decree-Christmas law. He said that he would go on for a while and then parliamentarians the crisis, but later on, calmly. [[Applause]] This is even the idea that the majority had, that we still do not understand if it is so, doing nothing at all, as if nothing had happened. We have even heard, at the Conference of Leaders, that Ministers may have resigned for family reasons. They have heard such things, that if citizens really listened to what they say at the Conference of the Leaders - the Movimento 5 Stars comes to mind, with its sessions streaming - it would be really hard to imagine what they might think of the Italian political class. It's really incredible and indecent what happened. Not content with this, at this evening's Conference of Leaders the hypothesis was even advanced of being able to anticipate the communications of a day, carrying them out on Monday both in the House and in the Senate, dividing the times. This would mean that at the Senate we would vote around 1:00 a.m. and suddenly, after a start on which it seemed that we all agreed, when President Alberti Casellati had already put this agreement established by everyone on the record, there was a reverse: Count doesn't give up the availability for Monday because, if you finish at 1:00 a.m., unfortunately it's too late and maybe you can't get someone to vote [[Applause]] This gives you the size of how reduced you are! This is the real dimension of how you are reduced! It's really indecent. I tell you, Mr President, this show is very indecent. It is clear that you need days, that you took days to go looking for the so-called responsible. You want the right time because for someone maybe at 1:00 a.m. it's probably too late and, therefore, you have to call him first. Would this be the Government that can give a future to the country and above all the Government of the relaunch of Italy? Happy birthday! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u47	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, thank you. I have to say that my colleague, Mr Romeo, has anticipated me with a number of considerations that have been a continuous shock to us. Colleagues, I have heard today that President Conte cannot appear on the same day in this Chamber of the Senate and in the House because this could undermine the rights of elderly senators. [[Applause]] We were moved by this sensitivity that you have repeatedly demonstrated when you forced the timetable of work in a shameful way, making the elderly senators - poor people - vote at every hour of the day and night [[Applause]] And yet at this moment, because of your fear that this collectible government is missing some senator, maybe some senator for life a little' agé, you have the courage to mention the weakness, the vulnerability, the fragility of the elderly senators [[Applause]] Mr President, you - though impartial - are witnessing to us: we have really heard all sorts of things. Among other things, I would like to say a personal thank you to President Conte who, when asked, had expressed his willingness. In fact, he said he was willing to make his communications to the House on Monday morning and consistently, for balance and par conditio, Monday afternoon in the Senate. This seems to us to be the right thing, except that some of you do not have back thoughts, concerns, anxieties, the need to rapture builders within this House to the last second. [[Applause]] It is something that perhaps President Conte had not been made aware of, but his majority, at a distance of about twenty minutes, thought well to rectify his availability; the availability given by President Conte who, every day, says to be deeply concerned about the problems of the country and even makes videos in which he shows to go and get the coffee and manifests all his empathy, participation and closeness to the Italians and shamefully postpones the time of verification of a Government that we do not even know if it exists, if it does not exist, if it is trusted or if it is not; it is the Government oil not oil. [[Applause]] We don't know what kind of government it is. We know that Ministers have been withdrawn, but we do not know whether confidence has been withdrawn. Is this the way you serve your representatives? Is this the way you serve those Italians you say they're suffering? Is this the way you follow the pandemic and the crisis? Well, ladies and gentlemen, if this is the dawn of a new day, we really hope that this day will never come and we will continue to work just like you because collectible governments, who will only do the evil of the country, will never be born with the worst assumptions. I'm still adding a not irrelevant detail. Colleagues, we've been asking you two months to make it quick. Hurry up! [[Applause]] Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, you who wanted to open this House like a can of tuna, today you have spoken the words 'institutional geometries'. I repeat, institutional geometries! [[Applause]] You have become more realistic than the king, the expression of the worst theater of politics. Please come back to yourself, wake up and do quickly in the interest not of us, but of those Italians you say you want to represent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u50	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, we are withdrawn from a Kafkian meeting of the Conference of Leaders, during which we discussed minutation, time compression, difficulty in walking many senators, problems of insomnia and more, in a way that offends not only the Conference of Leaders, but also the whole institution of which we are a member. On the other hand, we should have discussed the political ways, which were the ways in which we had left each other after the Conference of Leaders this morning, namely to ascertain the willingness of the President of the Council to make communications in the two branches of Parliament. Despite the willingness given by the President of the Council, we were able to discuss the hours to establish that the President of the Council's communications would take place on the same day as Monday, first in the House and then in the Senate. We have also made time available for this to take place in one day. Then, suddenly, this system has been overturned and we have returned to a scheme that - in our opinion - is unacceptable, that is two days divided: Monday in the House and Tuesday in the Senate. This means that almost a week will have passed since the beginning of this crisis, compared to which one pretends nothing, because next Tuesday will have spent almost a week since yesterday, the beginning of the crisis. Faced with the words of the President of the Republic, who asked for this crisis to have a very short time, and in the face of the health and economic emergencies of the country, which cannot wait for the swamp of politics (so, not short, but very short times), what does the majority in the process of decomposition do? Scrape! Pick up the minutes, too. All the opposition gave availability for Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday days. You picked up with every excuse, even the lowest and most ridiculous, to get to Tuesday. You need Saturday and Sunday not to rest, but to try to shore up a majority that is no longer there, going to pick up from here and there some elder who survives at two at night or some other defined improperly responsible, to understand whether or not you have numbers reduced. [[Applause]] I want to tell you something. President Conte should have resigned and should have come today to say what is happening, what is being done and proceed immediately to the count. [[Applause]] This is the thought not only of Brothers of Italy, but of all the people who are out of here and who are waiting for answers in a period of extraordinary social, economic and health emergency. But you're picking up, because you want to shore up! [[Applause]] One thing is clear, beyond the premises that you have disavowed: if you ever find - and I do not believe it, nor wish it to the country - a small majority, this will be three times weaker than what you have had so far and with which you have ruined the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u53	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, a week ago, on 7 January, on "Il Giorno" in the pages of Milan, an article appeared which, for the first time, took into account the state of the art of negotiation between the State and Umberto Eco's heirs. Umberto Eco was a great narrator, philosopher, semiologist, journalist, disappeared exactly five years ago, in February 2016. He was born in January 1932 and now, five years later, those interlocutions - started about three years ago - between the family and the State - I refer to that article, followed, in the following days, by other interventions in the press - seem to arrive in port. Yet, unlike what was given to know until some time ago, namely that the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities was dealing with the family, after having declared the historical interest particularly important of the compendium constituted by the library and the archive of Umberto Eco, today it is learned that the library, relative to the part of the ancient and rare texts, will actually be purchased by the State and will be kept in the Braidense national library of Milan and managed, precisely, by the Ministry. On the contrary, over 35,000 volumes - they are the most recent part of the library itself - and the papers, therefore the professor's archive, will be donated by the family to the State, but will go to Bologna, and therefore not to Milan. In Bologna the University Alma Mater Studiorum, based on an agreement with the family, which seems to still be reached, will make available spaces - they seem to have already been identified - to collect this part of the documentation and books. I wonder how it is possible that the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, which has issued a protection measure - in respect of which the Eco family has made an appeal to the TAR, and on which it has not yet been decided - can allow the development of this own protection initiative, allowing today the dismemberment of the Compendium. As mentioned, the library remains partly in Milan, partly in Bologna, the archive seems to go to Bologna. Well, it is difficult, for a man who has been a great intellectual and has made the library the center of one of his most famous novels - I am thinking of "The name of the rose" - to imagine that his library, which among other things called in particular ways - defined it semiological, but also curious, lunatic, pneumatic - is separated from the archive, while containing also the books a series of handwritten notes and notes of the same Eco: to me it seems a very little justified, all the more so because - I repeat - a provision of bond had already been issued and now it would seem that, while remaining in force the bond, the Ministry allows - apparently, on the basis of the wishes of the family - a dismemberment that makes no sense. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u56	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, Mauro Masi has been appointed President of the Public Insurance Services (Consap), a subsidiary of the MEF, in which he has served three times as CEO since 2011. According to the statutes of the Consap, directors are appointed for a period not exceeding three years, and expire on the date of the assembly. So, Masi, not being able to occupy for a fourth time the role of CEO, got the presidency, while the chair of CEO went to Vincenzo Federico Sanasi D'Arpe. Always the statute of the Consap states that only to the managing director and the president, in the case of attribution of operating delegations can be recognized compensations that are between 160,000 and 180,000 euros. Consap manages, on behalf of Mise, the Ministry of the Interior and the MEF, the role of public insurer for compensation and therefore manages some funds for compensations such as the guarantee fund and securitisation of suffering provided for by the decree-law. Consap also manages the savings compensation fund (FIR) provided for by Law No 145 of 30 December 2018, i.e. compensation for savers who have suffered unfair injury, i.e. bankrupt banks. Masi is also president of Banca Igea, another bank whose shareholding structure has saved the Bank of Fucino, with 47,5 million losses; operation occurred through the transfer of 314 million non-performing loans (NPL) to the company for the management of assets that was SGA ex Banco di Napoli and became AMCO, a company participated by the MEF. As Managing Director Rai, Masi was finally convicted of erorial damage to public TV and had to compensate the company for 100,000 euros. As general manager he favored the exodus of the former director of the news Angela Buttiglione and of the former director Rai Marcello del Bosco, making to pay the Rai 680.000 euros; figure that the Court of Auditors has judged erarial damage with sentence confirmed by the Cassazione on 16 October 2018. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe it is inconceivable that it is always the same as the usual mandarin that is almost forever renewed. I wonder if the office of President of Consap held by Mauro Masi is compatible with that of President of Banca Igea, considering that the concessionaire of public insurance services also manages the FIR, the fund to compensate savers. What steps must be taken? This country will not change as long as the usual mansions of the Palace continue to haunt public bodies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u59	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking in a surreal climate because I would like to address Minister Patuanelli and Minister Catalfo in order to bring the concerns of the trade unions of airport companies such as Alitalia and the handling Aviation Services and Aviapartner that just yesterday denounced me that from 27 January their companies will have no more liquidity to pay their salaries. I would like to bring this matter to the attention of these Ministers, without asking a question because we have an urgency, we are talking about a few days, a few weeks, after which we will see our fellow citizens, the workers of the airport system, not receiving the salary. I therefore intervene at the end of the session to raise the Minister of Labour's awareness in particular that he is taking charge of the INPS, since often and willingly the hiccups that produce the new INPS management create inconveniences for the citizens. From January 27 next we will find ourselves with an audience of about ten thousand people without the salary. I therefore bring to the attention of this Assembly and of what remains of the Giallorossi Government the fact that from 27 January the workers of the companies Aviation Services, Aviapartner and Alitalia - I repeat - will not receive the salary and this problem is spread throughout the territory, from Naples to Milan, passing through the international airport of Fiumicino. This is a heartfelt appeal to the seriousness of those who have responsibilities not indifferent to Italian citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u60	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-292.ana.u61	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 19 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.54 p.m.
