ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on document XVI, point 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u5	Mr President, I will not take too much time away from you and my colleagues, but I believe it is right, at the beginning of my speech, to stress the form vice that I believe has characterized and conditioned the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. I am referring to the total lack of guidance on operational governance and the tools and modalities through which we should then have implemented the entire Plan operationally. This strategic deficit is even more serious if we consider that an important figure, equal to as much as 127 billion euros out of 196, will be due to debt measures, which will be burdened on the shoulders of our country. All this translates into the affirmation of two concepts, one resulting from the other: the total absence of planning and, consequently, the assumption of rain financing, which will be coated and used without these important strategic considerations. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u6	I would kindly ask the senators present in this House to lower their voices during the speech by their colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u7	BARBARO (FdI). Thank you, Mr President. I was talking about rain finance, just like the ones that have been allocated to the world of sport, which is expected to be EUR 700 million for sports facilities. This is extraordinary funding, but for an ordinary measure, given that the Sport and Outskirts Plan has been part of the measures that are refinanced every year for about ten years. This year it has been financed more, but we are faced with a standard measure, which also presents great strategic deficiencies, since within the measure we have not had the opportunity to identify any indication regarding one of the most important aspects of this measure, namely a homogeneous geographical distribution, that can give sufficient answers for a homogeneous redistribution of sports facilities in our country. It would have also been important to receive an indication regarding the involvement of the school for the construction of school sports facilities, because its deficiency is one of the main problems with regard to the diffusion and the affirmation of sport in our country. I could go further and you don't have to go far. I do not want to dwell here on the aspects that have characterized the debate on what the Government has done with regard to sport, or practically nothing. It is an under-estimated and under-attentiond subject, which has not received any answers. There is a state of asphyxiation, which is paralyzing the whole sector, against which there is no response, nor has it arrived in this circumstance. There has been talk of sport in all sauces, but we have seen that, in the absence of a special Ministry, the presence of a Undersecretary has been opposed, which has not yet presented the operational lines of its mandate. Above all, we have not had the opportunity to obtain answers within the measure in question, nor any other measures. I don't want to go far and I don't want to take any more time talking about what wasn't done. I want to be consistent with the regulatory system, referring to the difficulties of the world of sport also and especially in the field of sports equipment. A response has been given, which I consider to be partial, with regard to sports equipment, but, remaining within this field, we could think of allocating resources for the reduction of fees, or rather for the shift of the payment of the fees of public sports equipment: we are talking about 30% of public facilities. It was possible to intervene on the blockage of the postings and on the postponement of the charge of the utilities, as well as on the leasing and the blocking of the mortgages. No response was given, with a substantial figure that could have provided answers in this direction. These are concrete arguments on which the Brothers of Italy Group will push the Government and the majority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u8	I call on Members to remain within the time allowed for their speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u9	He is registered to speak Senator Marco Pellegrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are dealing with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, that is, the investment programme that we will present to the European Union, in order to detail how we think of spending the huge funds that Europe makes available to us, in order to overcome the economic and social effects caused by the pandemic. To make us understand from the citizens, it is the funds of the recovery fund, the Next generation EU and the multiannual financial framework 2020-2027. The resources allocated to Italy amount, as is well known, to more than 200 billion, of which more than 80 were lost and more than 120 in the form of loans. We are, therefore, in a condition perhaps unrepeatable in the history of our country because we finally have the resources to finance and, hopefully, the political will to build a new Italy, taking advantage of all the opportunities that derive from the ecological and digital transition. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan builds and unfolds on three strategic axes (digitalisation and innovation, ecological transition and social inclusion) and three cross-cutting priorities (gender equality, young people, the South and territorial rebalancing). All this corresponds perfectly to the programmatic cornerstones of the Movimento 5 Star since its birth. Italy must become an absolute protagonist of the European green new deal and must overcome the challenge of sustainability and reduction of emissions in transport, in the production of goods and services, in the realization of tangible and intangible infrastructure. We are so convinced that in order to achieve this goal we have imagined to create a new Dicastery (the Ministry of the ecological transition), which combines competences that were distributed between various Ministries and we have placed it as a condition for our participation in the Government Draghi. The challenge before us is great and stimulating because we want to build a different Italy, new - as I said before - more just, more inclusive, smarter, more ready to change, more respectful of the environment and future generations. For this to happen, the National Plan needs to be accompanied by a series of reforms that the country has been waiting for decades - I am thinking of that of the entire tax system, the labour market and the reform to speed up and make the machinery of justice efficient - and, finally, of all measures to promote competition. For the new Italy that we have in mind, to create work and well-being, to redistribute wealth, we need first of all a public administration at the service of the digitized, sburocratized, well organized and efficient citizens that does not constitute a factor of delay in public and private investments. We need citizens and businesses to be able to operate in a legal environment that promotes merit and innovation, that promotes the development of ideas and research, that makes it possible to make the best use of technologies. All this must increase the wealth of the country and the productivity of companies, but above all it must improve the quality of life of people, which is and must remain our priority objective. The ecological transition must not be a slogan or the name of a Ministry; we will not allow greenwashing or facade ecology operations, but we will strive to ensure that the ecological and digital transition, the attention to the South and the territorial rebalancing constitute an extraordinary and powerful engine of new development to start new production chains, significantly increase the energy efficiency of our economic complex and increase the production of renewable energy, drastically reduce emissions of climate-friendly gases, improve the quality of the air, our seas and water bodies. As far as social, territorial and gender inclusion is concerned, we need to intervene on inequalities and tackle different poverty, starting with economic poverty - we started to do so right from the start with the income of citizenship, which this Government continues to finance, as proof of the goodness of the measure, as the friends of tax evaders say - and from the cultural one, improving education and the transmission of knowledge, even digital, investing massively in public school. With regard to gender equality, it is indeed time to put in place measures to remove all the obstacles that make it difficult for women, if not impossible, to train, work and access to financial resources, which constitute, as a whole, a genuine discrimination that too often relegates women to domestic work and care by depriving Italy of talents who, on the other hand, have every right to express themselves and from which the country would derive enormous benefits. If we can talk about this today, if we can talk about 209 billion to invest, we owe it to the former President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause]] that, together with the Movimento 5 Stars that has always supported it, has been able to change Europe in a few months [[Applause]] , transforming... I'd like to do my speech without the howling of these gentlemen.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u11	Senator, continue your intervention. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u12	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). I was saying, President Conte was able to change Europe in a few months, transforming a group of selfish states and supporters of austerity into a Union ready to cash in common, to do common debt, to help financially those in need. This transformation took place in spite of some solans of Italian militant information as well as of a becera opposition, capable only of dispensing insults with full hands and of wronging any prediction in this regard. Today it makes us smile to rethink the robatory and low propaganda statements of a few weeks ago of those who - like the League, yesterday in opposition, today in the Government - claimed that Italy should not have taken even the 80 billion that Europe had decided (for us, certainly not for them) to give us to overcome the economic crisis, because to them it did not agree. Now, instead, they want to teach us how to spend the 209 billion. Welcome to the real world! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u13	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u14	Mr President, colleagues, representatives of the Government, National Recovery and Resilience Plan: it has never been seen in the history of the Italian Republic - since the post-war period - such an important measure for the present and future life of the nation. A programmatic document of incredible breadth, which is worth almost three times that Marshall plan that was put in place to raise the country after a world war: 209 billion. Insufficient and disappointing in its first draft, now, with the comments proposed by Parliament and the revision made by this Government, it begins to become a structured plan. We are very pleased with the declarations of further sharing of the Minister of Economy, which we have read in the newspapers, because we have a unique opportunity to revolutionize the whole country system in a virtuous way. That is why we need vision, concreteness, courage, competence, shared decision-making power. National Recovery and Resilience Plan: please focus on the terms in which a plan has been drawn up that this Government and Parliament, which is the voice of the citizens, have the responsibility to implement. In order to work better, we must focus on every single person who, as such, has the right to achieve his or her life in serenity. And then, while I was thinking about how to intervene on this Plan, I saw and have in my eyes the commitment of a health care worker who struggles every day to save lives; I see the smile of a cashier at her place, always, from the beginning; the patience of a parent who divides between smart working and distance learning; the warmth of volunteers who comfort, who help. I see the despair and strength of a trader, an entrepreneur, a farmer trying to resist in every way and trusting and relying on us. I listen to the outbursts of the children to whom the pandemic has taken away social life; I feel the tenfold efforts of those who assist the elderly sick, disabled, within the family. And I could move on. I see those children for whom the only nutritious meal was that of the school cafeteria, and I am sure that you see them with me and that is why we are all prosthetic to do the best possible, pushed and admired by that silent, but strong, dignity that characterized the Italian people in its toughest moment. [[Applause]] Every single person deserves all our efforts to achieve a well-made Plan, which is the biggest challenge that the country faces and wins, and we must do so with love. We must do well and restore confidence; we must do excellent things, not only to have enough in Europe, but to achieve the excellence that this country deserves. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan can get us into history, we have to choose whether to do it as heroes or losers. We would like to be remembered for having succeeded in changing things; today the Italians will resist and tighten their teeth a little longer, if we can give them the certainty that their sacrifices will be repaid, if we let those who want to work work work work, if we can create for all the conditions of a true restart and these conditions are based on two non-negotiable pillars: trust and freedom; trust and freedom that must be the basis of the great alliance between the public and the private. We need clear and simple rules in their implementation and at the same time reforms, reforms and reforms. A revolutionary work is needed, because today this Government will be able to decide on the future of Italy. Forza Italia there is from the first moment, committed to the maximum to make a competent and effective contribution according to the liberal, reformist, solidarity and popular principles that characterize our movement. The ecological transition becomes central in this work and for Forza Italia sustainable development cannot be without support for technological innovation, in the belief that private initiative is to be accompanied, starting from urban regeneration, central theme for restarting, because beauty will save the world, starting from the request for extension, extension and simplification of ecobonus to 110%, to the strengthening of green ecobonus. In fact, let us remember that we possess the most precious asset: Italy and above all that "made in Italy" that brings us to the roof of the world. In conclusion, as far as school is concerned, our recipe is simple but revolutionary: freedom of educational choice, accompaniment to the return of students who provide support to teachers and teachers, revision of programs to adapt them to the changing world. We were born to start over. That is what a colleague told me yesterday, incidentally the President of the 6th Commission. Let's start again, for a new Italian miracle. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u15	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are before one of the most significant acts of this parliamentary term - it has already been said and I stress this - but it will be so, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, only on condition that it really redesigns the social geography of this extraordinary country and that it is used by the European Union. It is, in fact, a Plan for Italy, France and Germany, but it is built by the European Union to achieve an objective that we can see today, but that certainly cannot be achieved. The third consideration to make is that it implies a commitment that concerns, first of all but not only, the Government in office, which therefore goes beyond the end of this legislature and will go beyond 2023. Unlike the past, when pandemics such as the plague were considered great social levellers, this pandemic has generated further inequalities that are rumbled together with grudges and often resentment, hope has not followed, as for our grandparents and our fathers in the aftermath of World War II, but resignation. Therefore, the PNRR, on which the 5th and 14th Commissions have done an excellent job, can have these effects on the sole condition that it creates a more humanitarian state and, on the other hand, puts the European Union in a position to withstand the competitive challenge between the United States and China. There is an affidavit, which we have placed in the hands of the wider Government that the history of the Republic has ever known and of an authoritative and decidedly pro-European President, not of the last hour. When I talk about a more humanitarian and, therefore, more inclusive state, which is committed above all to allowing certain guarantees and prospects for the younger generations and which puts Europe in a position to play a game that, in the last twenty years, has ceased to play in a competitive way on the international stage, I am talking about a strategic issue, for which this country and Europe demand terrific rulers. The PNRR is not governed by presentism, by the fashion of this time. We need depth, we need strategy and we definitely need foresight. The second question that I would like to highlight concerns the centrality that has been entrusted to Parliament. I note that this is an absolutely positive factor. In the opinion expressed by the Commission, the issue of not only today, but above all the next stage, with the involvement of Parliament, by the Commission, in the implementation of the proposals that will come. These are the conditions around which the recovery plan can work and can affect, linked to deep structural reforms. It's the reason why emptying the drawers, sticking projects of any kind, serves half and doesn't change, or reverses history. I have read in particular the infrastructure plan, not only what concerns the Commission which I have the privilege of presiding over. I understand that the key point is to allow a strong development, the shortening of the difference between North and South - it is clear - and a strong development linked above all to the horizontal platform of Northern Italy, which is the first that connects strongly, with tenacity and with determination to the rest of Europe. Register, however, inside the recovery plan, reading the proposals, also a kind of caesura between the North and the South of Italy. Central Italy is neither in terms of infrastructure, nor - except for general issues, of course, such as digitalization and everything about green innovation - in concrete terms. So the risk is that two pieces of the country will open a bush. The last question concerns the work done by my Commission, of which I am proud. We have included significant points, which concern the theme of the roots and identities of middle Italy, investments on merit, the protection of people more than forgotten entities. We have tried to rebuild a decisive pillar, which had already been envisaged and which we have only widened, around education and research. Education and research, alongside justice and health, are one of the three pillars around which nations are built. In this case, the state system has been clear: these three pillars must be protected and safeguarded and what we have done is to increase their potential. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u17	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u18	Mr President, I would have liked to begin by talking about the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but I have to say that, in this Parliament, when some Members, referring, for example, to tax evasion, with the gesture of the body, perhaps distractedly (because I do not want to say that they did it on purpose: we would miss it), indicate a part of the hemicycle, implying, to those who look at it at that time, that those tax evaders might be on this side, I say to you that I do not accept it! [[Applause]] That is very shameful, Mr President! It's shameful! I do not know if he was referring to tax evasion, for example on the residence tax. I do not know, but it is certainly not an acceptable gesture in Parliament. [[Applause]] I apologize to Senator Emanuele Pellegrini when homonymous is a problem. There has been a change of vision, President, about the new writing compared to the old one. The new one, in my opinion, makes a qualitative leap by bringing together investments and reforms. It is clear that if we want to restart the country, for example through the infrastructural part, it is impossible not to think about a reform of the code of contracts, otherwise we start again to be those who say that there are 150 billion stops and we cannot use them. I would like to stress the great work done by my Commission, a fruitful work which has led us to pass on an opinion to the committees responsible for 79 points. I like to recall some of them: the consolidation of the decisive supply chains for the national industry, for example the manufacturing industry, through digitisation. Our manufacturing industry is an international leader and it is certainly the one that has suffered the most damage at this stage. Our country is definitely succubus and has a very strong gap of dependence on raw materials: it is clear that it must be reduced. We are in the process of examining a deal allocated, together with the 9th Commission, precisely to talk about this: the increase in prices. Perhaps it was also decided to hold a hearing with the Chinese President, but we will see. Then there is the very strong demand for simplification of the bureaucratic process for obtaining and installing photovoltaic systems, as well as those for the mini hydropower. There is the 110% superbonus game, which someone called "superfault." I don't know, but there has certainly been a great deal of expectation about this measure, which, perhaps it is true, has been increased in demand, but the bureaucratic impact within which we encounter each time - believe me - is very strong. Therefore, there must be a commitment to simplify. Then it was not inserted, but it must be said with great force (I hope it is a battle of the League), also the part of the building differences, because the difference in construction within the game of the superbonus is decisive. Our story tells us in fact that there are very often discrepancies between the state of the project and the state of fact, which are not necessarily condoned, but are small discrepancies: one meter, two meters, a window, but prevent to take advantage of the bonus at 110 percent. It is clear that an extension to 30 June 2023 is important, just as simplification is needed. We have also included the fundamental role of ENIT, also in this case through the digital part, to create links and relationships for the tourism sector that has suffered economic violence from this pandemic. Digitisation is an important aspect, as Senator Tiraboschi reminds the Commission every time. We must take advantage of this fundamental aspect and the opportunity of these 200 billion to really bring our Made in Italy back to the center of attention and above all to avoid spending it as we did with previous deviations. We need projects, along with reforms, and we need everything to go. Madam President, I apologise for the initial outburst, but it was necessary to reply: I do not feel like a tax evader. I conclude by saying that this Plan, finally lightened by the ideological, environmental and microcosm positions that perhaps were evaluated too carefully before, is really the occasion for a rebirth of this country, because I like to remember that it is still a great country, despite some of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u19	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u20	Mr President, the exposure of the many problems to be solved in health care is the mirror of a situation that has been incancellinated for decades, until it arrives at a list of situations that should be realized all together. But, even with all the necessary money and bureaucracy reduced to a minimum, the essential problem is human: how many people do you need to carry on at the same time everything that is planned? Italian experiences would say that promoting several projects at the same time means not bringing any of them to a complete conclusion. However, we are all aware of the opportunities now coming from Europe, which must not be wasted. We know that there are no simple solutions to complex problems, not even in accounting and finance, and the work of these weeks, in each Commission, has been done and aimed at listening. The proposals coming from several fronts represent a hope. Our country wants to grow but, to do so, we know that much must change, starting from the process of deburocratization. Two of the six missions contained in the recovery plan are those on which I want to focus: social equity and gender and health. With reference to the first point, it is necessary to invest primarily and decisively in prevention policies which, in line with the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, through educational interventions, enable the cultural issue from which violence against women originates to be addressed. Cultural prevention cannot be without the inclusion in the three-year plans of the different schools of specific programmes on gender violence and respect education. It is also essential to take action on the appropriate training of the teaching staff: only if properly trained are teachers able to transmit educational models based on respect for the sexes. It is necessary to invest in the participation of women in the world of work, making the most of their contribution, but a promotion on gender equality cannot be without the implementation of all those measures to promote the balance of the reconciliation of times and to support single-parent families, made up of so many women. With regard to health, our Group has tried to bring to the attention several issues that I will enumerate: modernising the technological and digital hospital fleet; encouraging pharmaceutical innovation in the field of rare diseases, with the repeal of paybacks for innovative orphan drugs; increasing the capacity of the fund of innovative cancer and non-cancer medicines in view of the arrival of numerous advanced high-cost therapies; promoting and strengthening proximity assistance; establishing the electronic health file, starting with a simplified system. Since 2017 we have been talking about the electronic health file, which should have been ready in December and still many regions do not have it. A cardiocerebrovascular plan should then be financed to ensure timely and appropriate management of the diseases; redesign the hospital care network, strengthening the organisational structure of the departments, to streamline the waiting lists and recover the emergency period, with particular reference to chronic cancer and heart disease patients. We need to intervene on critical area departments, from operating rooms to intensive therapies, creating real beds and not only on paper, as was done in August, when there were beds but there was no staff to make the place in intensive care available; strengthening home care with an integrated territorial network; reviewing the training of the family doctor and making it a specialization, like all other universities; supporting fragility, chronicity, disability; to revise specific obsolete national plans, not renewed despite the law that established them; to support bone fragility, real public health emergency, above the European average; to provide guidance from the Ministry for multidisciplinary models, as in the rest of Europe. (at 10.10 a.m.) (Following RIZZOTTI). Above all, we need a supervisory body in the Ministry of Health, which controls and monitors the specific tables, urging the Minister or those for him. Forza Italia has always said that all the tables set up at the Ministry must report, at least once a month, to the competent Chamber and Senate Commissions. Otherwise, I'd like to know what all these tables are doing. Mental health care: there is a breakdown between the needs of the patient and the responses of the National Health System. The LEAs need to be updated and we still wait to know when. Depressive forms and eating disorders are increasing: more than 3 million boys and girls die of anorexia and do not know who and where to turn. It is necessary to strengthen maternal and child care, because strengthening demographic policies means bringing them back as far as possible to respect the times of natural fertility of every woman. It was a bit of a winding start, but the game is still to be played. And I hope that every process can be transparent in the real way of transparency - not understood as many say, which then cover a lot of their things - and above all can involve citizens and businesses in the first place, a real driving force for economic recovery. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u21	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, our country is going through a difficult time. Italy, like Europe and the whole world, has been overwhelmed by a health tsunami, which has dragged with it the economic and social hold of our civil life. It is therefore necessary to intervene in order to remedy this disaster and to allow the restart of our country, as well as of Europe. However, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan can be a historic opportunity to address not only the health emergency, but also, with determination and incisive interventions, other much more serious and ancient crises that grip our country. One is the environmental crisis, which concerns the whole planet; the other is the socio-economic inequality between the territories and is specific to Italy, which has been living the North-South divide for too long. At this point I would like to highlight a number of points on which we need - in my opinion - to correct the shot a little, also on the basis of the indications reached by the Chamber and Senate Budget Commissions. Let us start with interventions which focus more specifically on the ecological transition. In line with the opinion expressed by the Commission, of which I am a member, I believe that agriculture needs to be given more space, because no ecological revolution can be achieved without giving proper prominence to the agricultural world. That is true; there are also other EU green measures in the CAP. But in the NRP, only 1.8 billion euros are allocated to sustainable agriculture, allocated exclusively to supply chain, logistics and parks, which do not have a significant impact on the ecological transition. There is no intervention - for example - on the role played by farms, particularly livestock farms, in the prevalence of intensive production models and dependent on the use of synthetic chemicals, which have a high impact on the various environmental matrixes. There should be a clear intervention strategy on these elements, as intensive agriculture today seems to be one of the causes of biodiversity loss in Italy and Europe. In general, the only truly friendly agriculture in a new model of green development is the organic one, which also has an important role to play in strengthening health prevention and, therefore, would also allow less burden on national health systems. In addition, the Next Generation EU programme devotes 37% of its resources to climate action, adaptation to climate change and to terrestrial and marine biodiversity. In our PNRR, however, the issue of the protection of biodiversity is not specifically addressed by means of ad hoc lines of action. A chapter on "Conservation of biodiversity and restoration of ecosystems" should therefore be added to the PNRR. In addition, the distribution of resources under the objectives appears to be inconsistent. In fact, within the framework of the PNRR Mission 2 dedicated to the "Green Revolution and ecological transition," the 110% green bonus is a shared measure, but it absorbs 42% of the resources, while the protection of the territory from hydrogeological risk is awarded only 3.7 billion, just 1.6%, and the circular economy only 2%. The truth is that, despite the good will shown with the European green deal and with the next generation EU itself, we still cannot see the urgency of the catastrophe generated by human activities. And if we are willing to talk about war and extraordinary mobilization in the case of Covid, we still seem too slow to take decisive steps towards a new model of development. Yet, the World Health Organization (WHO) tells us that over the last 40 years, there have been some 150,000 victims a year with climate change. According to the World Weather Organization (OMM), 22 million people were forced to leave their lands in 2019. The other important issue is the flattening of territorial imbalances. The European Union has taken into account three criteria: population, unemployment rate and income. The PNRR is required to proceed in a cross-cutting manner, in the six missions that make up the PNRR, with the territorial lease of investments respecting the three criteria. The minimum target of 34% appears to be largely insufficient. The real risk is that Brussels will reject our plan precisely because we have not complied with this basic criterion, so clearly applied by the European authorities. It is therefore important that we respect the territorial lease of investments, the spending targets, the expected results... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator De Bonis. De Bonis (Misto). I shall conclude and hand over the rest of my speech so that it remains in the proceedings. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. De Bonis (Misto). Policy therefore has the task of creating and spreading conditions of well-being, accelerating and supporting virtuous processes, responding to the emergency and needs of the population, especially of the next generations. Today we have a historic opportunity to translate this principle into reality and we must not waste it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the pandemic tsunami we must start again, but we must also become hardened to adversity. Recovery and resilience - the two magic words of the Plan that we are discussing today - must be based on health, young people, social cohesion, scientific research, innovation, digitisation, infrastructure, environmental protection and ecological transition. We must restart the country starting from the protection of the environment and the prevention of natural risks, promoting the so-called knowledge economy. We use information to generate value, according to the ethics of sustainability, waiting for social and environmental well-being. Not only GDP: progress - the real one - must be achieved respecting the environment, preventing natural risks, using renewable energy sources, adopting production processes and lifestyles compatible with the ecosystem's capacity to absorb the effects of human activities. It is precisely in this logic that I have intended to present a number of proposals to the Plan. In order to be able to undertake an integrated fight against the physical and anthropic degradation of the environment, all the scientific, technical and professional skills of our country must be put to use and rethink the governance models in terms of environmental protection and territorial governance, at national and local level, in compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and loyal collaboration. We must think of new synergistic operational models that best manage the resources at our disposal. A network must be established between supranational, national and territorial institutions, government agencies, research bodies and private individuals to plan interventions and not only to manage emergencies. I have therefore proposed that the Presidents of the Regions and the extraordinary Commissioners against hydrogeological failure should be supported by a regional technical structure with offices for the study, programming, design and implementation of ground defense interventions. It is very important to prevent risks and there is no doubt that knowledge is the first tool to prevent them. We therefore give space to scientific research, geosciences, energy, environment: this is a great project in this sense; scientific research on the earth system, on the renewable energy sources that the planet offers us, on the ecosystem functions of the environment. Promotion of cognitive prevention activities, with a view to correct spatial and urban planning, also means promoting the completion and updating of geological mapping, the inventory of Italian landslides, but above all increasing the scarce resources announced for the contrast to hydrogeological failure. As expected, it takes about a century to complete the defense of the ground; more realistically, we will always be chasing emergencies between deaths, destruction and crocodile tears. We need to invest no less than EUR 8 billion in addition to the existing ones; the total will become only 25% of the overall 44 billion needed, but it allows us to pragmatically focus the goal of hydrogeological safety in twenty-five years, intervening according to the necessary priorities. Investment in this sector, as well as strategic, will be a Keynesian multiplier, considering that the hydrogeological emergency costs five times more than prevention. The high seismic risk, energy requirements and environmental pollution must be added to the hydrogeological risk. I have therefore proposed to increase the fund for the seismic adaptation of public buildings - in Italy we have 13,200 schools that are not safe - and to encourage residential construction, which adapts to a greater danger to the one foreseen by the current regulations, so as to safeguard, as well as life, also the buildings. I would remind you that the post earthquake reconstruction is worth 85% of the cost of an earthquake: EUR 36 billion in the last three major earthquakes in twelve years. Here the Keynesian multiplier can become ten to one. It is also necessary the urban forestation of metropolitan cities, provincial capitals or in any case of all the most polluted cities. It is the case to favour, among renewable energy sources, those less impacting for the environment and the landscape - we do not neglect the beauty - photovoltaic roofs, micro wind, geothermal low enthalpy, hydroelectric fluid water, green hydrogen. I then supported the need to activate smart precision farming projects for the research and development of enabling technologies of Industry 4.0, for the promotion of the agricultural sector and for its environmental sustainability. Finally, I have proposed that the National Health Service should ensure minimum levels of care for the treatment and prevention, first and foremost, of pathological addictions. From today these proposals are guidelines for the government and I hope that they will become action for the necessary prosperous, serene and sustainable future that the nation deserves. Sursum rope! May politics be endowed with the necessary courage that this epochal moment requires; a courage supported by love for neighbour, for future generations and for Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u25	Mr President, I will try to be concise. In the meantime, I would like to start with a few simple principles of hygiene in the debate, which are nothing more than recognizing the great variety of nuances that our vocabulary has. If there are different words, it will be to indicate different concepts: for example, "majority" is not "unanimity"; "unanimity" does not necessarily have to be "conformism"; "conformism" is perhaps a little more cousin of "flat" which is enough brother of "sharpness." One particularly welcome thing in the speech that Mr President-in-Office made when he presented himself to these Chambers was the statement that none of the participants in this Government's project should have renounced their identity. It was a particularly intelligent statement, because it assumed that contributions, even critical ones, would be valued. In fact, one can be critical in supporting a project - it can be done because an analysis contribution is made - and then, of course, one conforms to the decisions of the majority in the name of a higher interest. I would, therefore, like to leave to our friends in the media, who are the best friends of the man who wants to inform, the standard question about the League of Fight and Government. I will say things, I will quote facts of which I would like to keep a record. This is a debate, I do so with respect, especially towards the Government, to the President-in-Office of the Council and to Mr Franco. By the way, in three years I have been here in the Senate I have often found that there is a rather weary attitude of Parliament, which complains that it is consculted by the government, but then, when it comes to asserting its prerogatives, and therefore to working, it prefers to complain because complaining is free and above all it costs little effort. I would like to deal with three points very quickly. First of all, I would like to start with a phrase that I think we all appreciated, because it was common sense, in the speech by the President-in-Office of the Council. I quote, apologizing if I read, but my memory is now that of an elder: The share of additional loans that we will require through the main component of the programme, the Recovery and Resilience Facility, will also have to be modulated according to public finance objectives. I translate these words to you as a macro-Economist which I am: everyone is the son of his path. I understood, in this sentence, that it seemed quite explicit to me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that he meant that, since the recovery fund loans are our State's debts and ours is a fairly indebted state, there would be an assessment at least of the convenience. Here, trustingly, it is assumed that borrowing from the Commission is necessarily more convenient than borrowing from the markets. It may well be so, at least in the very limited size of the interest rate, but the convenience of a loan has many facets and, therefore, the words of the President-in-Office of the Council seemed particularly wise to me. For this reason I was genuinely surprised - of course, this is not a dissenting statement, also because it is an intervention in question, but then personally I always feel part of this majority and I always want to support this project - from the acribia, from the acrimony, almost from the acredine with which the Commissions, both the Senate and the Chamber, have eliminated any possible reference to the possibility of assessing the affordability of the loans provided by the recovery compared to the convenience of the loans available on the market. The League's request was simply to make an assessment. Let us bear in mind a trivial fact, which is certainly known to any economist present here who has studied the matter in the last thirty years and, therefore, knows the role of expectations in the economy, that is that Italy so far is the only country that has declared that it wants access to those funds. This, from the market point of view, is the signal that Italy thinks it needs a particularly facilitated form of loan, i.e. indirectly thinks that it would find worse conditions on the market. This - I really say it with all my heart and without criticizing anyone - is a quite dangerous admission, because it risks generating self-fulfilling predictions. But then we don't blame the sovereigns - by the way it is a word I hate - if something goes wrong: let's also give it to certain mechanisms of communication. I come to the second point. First, on the pure side, the word "gift" came to me, I don't know how many billions they would have given us. If it is a gift, I would like to understand why the German Constitutional Court on March 30 said 'No', thank you. At the German Constitutional Court we love not so much because it reminds us that there is a right, but because it makes us have fun, it is picturesque with those wonderful red robes. For ten years, scientific literature has established that we must not worry. I quote an article by Torsten Stein that appeared on the Europäische Rechtsakademie in 2011, which basically said: these speak, speak, but then no action ever followed (which means don't worry). The German Constitutional Court is German first and, then, it is constitutional and therefore will not go against the project. However, the mere fact that he had the idea of doing so means that gifts are not. A Constitutional Court does not move to refuse a gift and in fact they are not gifts. There are the famous own resources that are not mentioned. We have ratified them by decree, while I understand that the Netherlands, in the Eerste Kamer - that is the equivalent of our Senate, because by claiming our primacy on the Lower House, we say that their first House is the Senate - has updated to April 13 the discussion on the ratification of own resources, as it waits to see what happens in Germany. The Dutch do not seem to be smart enough to understand that nothing will happen in Germany, but it is also a gesture of respect for voters to wait for the decision of a hegemony country before taking a line of action. As I said before, we can want all the federal Europes in the world. But, as long as Germany does not want it, we must be careful of the way we choose - both in terms of communication and substance - in setting up a participation and communication on this project. I say this because - I remember this once again - when we are realistic, we also win as a national state. I am going back to saying that - in my opinion - the fact that since March 24 the web tax in Italy is essentially operational, because finally regulated by a circular of the Revenue Agency - a given, this, quite silently passed on the media - is a significant victory of the rule of law, the ability of a Parliament and a State, in its sovereignty (word that exists in the Constitution), to set a healthy relationship towards economic realities even supranational and of considerable size. The problem is that we lose when we are more realistic than the king, that is, when we often go to ratify in advance and always run ahead of the stimuli that come from the legislator, or in any case from the European political context. In my opinion, greater caution which I would have liked to see written - for example - in this report, with the subject I mentioned at the outset, would have helped us. However, this is a debate and that is my opinion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u27	Mr President, let me begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the effort they have made and reminding us that we are in a special general debate. In fact, I believe that there is a widespread awareness (which is then declined in a different way) of being at a hairpin of history. And when you are at a hairpin in history, you may need to carry out longer-term analysis and classification to have exactly the dimension of the challenge we face. I would just like to focus on two problems and make two recommendations. The problem areas are Europe and internal reforms, perhaps the two pillars of this document. I believe that Europe in the post-war period was not the Ventotene Europe and ideological Europe, but the Europe that managed to restart the Continent after the war and to involve the economic strength of Germany when the Cold War climbed one of its most important peaks. It was the Europe of the ECSC and then of the Common European Market. In that case Italy made the right choice in the face of that pragmatic Europe. To join Europe, in fact, for a country that had just undergone unconditional surrender, meant something that until then history had not proposed to any people: to return to the international assembly. Above all, he allowed the Italian economy to purify itself of that veil of autarchy that came from the previous season. Part of the success of the Italian economic miracle also depended on that choice. It was a real revolution, carried out by a man called Alcide De Gasperi and a political formula called centrism. An Italy that had been backward and basically agricultural, within a few years became a European power and an industrial power. This is the period from the fifties to the beginning of the sixties, when the problem - and here is the second controversial junction - of reforms, which were then called a structure, adapted to consolidate that result. Gentlemen of the Government, I have had a publication in my hands, of which I read a quotation: Without claiming exhaustiveness, list the most obvious reforms: competitive strengthening of private and public industry; improvement of the quality of public administration in general, justice, school, university and research in particular; completion and continuous updating of a rational infrastructure and logistics programme; an effective, coherent policy on the southern issue; a plan to reduce energy dependence; the establishment of a fair and sustainable welfare system in the long term. Looks like the reforms we're facing. This is an analysis by Michele Salvati, a left-wing economist, who makes the list of reforms missed during the season that is called the long center-left, which begins in the mid-sixties and ends in the mid-nineties. If we add a little bit of digitalisation and some ecological transition, it is the programme that we have ahead of us. These failed reforms, these reforms that have not been there, represented the ball at the foot of the country and also conditioned successive seasons, such as those that go under the name of the second Republic. They have led to a disproportionate public debt, an oppressive taxation, an increase in the country's divisions not only on the North-South side, because to this is added, especially in recent years, a division that should be kept in mind more, between internal areas and coasts. We have, in fact, on the Apennine ridge, a country that is depopulating, in which only some of the most beautiful villages in Europe remain, where there is a soul of our tradition, absolutely abandoned. We have never got rid of these unmade boulders and reforms. The phase that goes under the name of globalization has accentuated the weight of all this, it has meant that our country has a slower growth - it is a fact - of all the other European countries of the same rank and then has provoked the expulsion from the market of a part of our enterprise, that it has failed to make the jump from small enterprise to medium enterprise, in some way frustrating what had happened in the eighties, with the explosion of the so-called army of VAT matches. Gentlemen of the Government, I would like us to be aware that this pandemic crisis is a great opportunity, because it is a global crisis, which gives us the opportunity to write on a whiteboard, which gives Europe the opportunity to reform itself again as an opportunity and not a bureaucratic oppression, which gives Europe the opportunity to revise the Maastricht Treaty, both on the side of the Stability Pact and on the side of fiscal compact. This crisis, precisely because it is global, also relativizes the historical gaps of Italy that have consolidated in the long term. Gentlemen of the Government, I hope you are aware that, if it had not been a global crisis, all the deviations we have made so far would have been absolutely impossible. This leads to two recommendations, one of which is for the government. We strongly wanted this Government to manage the pandemic and to manage the recovery. With great sincerity, on the side of the pandemic, even for unfavorable contingency, this change of pace is not seen. We, Lords of the Government, expect that on recovery there is instead an assumption of awareness and responsibility that leads the Executive to make choices from which it is clear that this is a historic opportunity that, if you lose it, can lead to a decrease in the rank of our Country. Mr President, the second recommendation goes to Parliament, to us, to control the government, this ambition, and not just to claim a corporate role of mere participation or participation in resources. You can die of socialism. We need a Parliament to throw at the government and not to ask for a small part in comedy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u28	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u29	Mr President, Ministers, colleagues, at the end of April our country will be called to take a first fundamental step towards what will be Italy of the future. With the presentation of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience we assume the enormous responsibility to face a historic challenge, which, if well played, can change the lives of Italians. Multiple and complex are the goals to be achieved and too many to be retraced in the few minutes I have available. For this reason I will focus on what I consider the primary objective of the Plan: the reduction of the gap between North and South Italy; a gap so large and difficult to bridge that it has made our country the first recipient in quantitative terms of the resources of the Next generation EU. Minister, we must start a project that can guarantee all Italian citizens, from Pantelleria to Bolzano, equal conditions of departure and equal opportunities so that equality is not only formal but also substantial. It is necessary to set out with determination a path that allows those living in the South to enjoy the same services as those living in the North (transport, health care, kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly), to be able to find and maintain work with the same ease, to be able to invest and create employment more easily. We are aware that the Plan alone is not enough, but the southern issue is national and, therefore, we need a long-term effort that goes well beyond 2026, the year by which the national plan will have to be completed. We need an overall economic policy strategy that will require structural reforms and targeted development taxation, as well as of course planning, efficiency and speed in the use of the European Structural Funds and, above all, of that Development and Cohesion Fund which is currently under-used and which, on the other hand, will have to be directed at 80% towards the regions for which it has been designed. Minister, for these reasons I asked and obtained that in the proposal for a Plan shortly before the vote it was clear that the rapid cantierabilità of the infrastructures - condition necessary for accessing the resources of the recovery fund - would not prevent the planning of further works necessary to refound a Mezzogiorno of the rights of the development and the job. Of all these works I think of the stable connection on the Strait of Messina, which unfortunately with bitterness I noticed remain for some political forces a real taboo. The bridge over the Strait - I smile again, Minister - for some in this House is an annoying, even unpronounceable term, perhaps for purely ideological reasons attributable to our leader Silvio Berlusconi, who has worked with determination for the realization of this work, considering it, like all of us, a huge source of opportunity. [[Applause]] A strategic infrastructure for our country and for the reaffirmation of its centrality in the Mediterranean. To this end, again in the Plan proposal under discussion today, we asked to take into account at least the study on the subject of the appropriate committee of technicians and experts, established at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport by the previous Government. A study that we expect will be sent to us as soon as possible by Minister Giovannini, to whom we renew the request to be able to see him, and which according to the well-informed would be in support of the importance of establishing a stable link between Sicily and Calabria. We do not wish that the committee in question, Minister, had worked in vain, that its institution had been a simple excuse, a simple escapism to take - or worse to waste - time and that the document drawn up after almost a year of work turned out to be just paperwork. I say this to the Government, to my colleagues: the great works are possible also in the South; we must not seek alibis, but find the courage and the will to start them. Waiting to be able, therefore, to see this dossier, I have asked that the funds of the recovery fund, besides that for the realization of the high speed until Reggio and the modernization and implementation of the railway net in Sicily, can also be destined to the potenziamento and efficiency of the current system of crossing the Strait. It will certainly be essential to understand which and how many projects the Plan will target the Southern Regions. Minister Carfagna has assured us that a chapter specifically dedicated to the South will be introduced and that large sums will be reserved for the construction of infrastructure; we are delighted. For this reason, I felt it necessary to include in the proposals of Forza Italia - which were then included in the document before us today - that for each mission, for each investment project, the resources allocated to the South are clearly indicated and clearly verifiable. Overall, the quota to be allocated to the Mezzogiorno must not be less than 34% of the total resources coming from Europe, not to reduce the issue to a flag percentage - attention! - not even to a mere logic of demand, but because behind the numbers, behind the statistics that tell an economic backwardness, made even more serious by the pandemic, there is the real suffering that people live daily on their own skin. There is very little left, Minister, to define the Plan; I hope that the Government will take advantage of these proposals and work towards genuine social and territorial cohesion to deliver to young people, that next generation, which we are talking about, a better and fairer Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u30	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the PNRR is the cornerstone of the project that, alongside the economic planning tools, will allow the restart of our country. A restart that can only be concrete if we can associate projects with the lines of action that are up to the European programme, in order to really exploit the growth potential of our Italy, filling the territorial gap with a reversal of course, however, that starts right from the South. Of the six missions, I will briefly focus on the number 3 (Infrastructures for sustainable mobility) which, at least in the proposal, links the infrastructure system to the objectives of the green deal in the field of road maintenance 4.0 to preserve over time the functional characteristics of urban and extra-urban roads and which, thanks to innovative systems, could represent the engine of a production process for professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises, especially at local level, of intermodality and integrated logistics, to remain competitive on the market reducing the general cost of transport, to take advantage of the opportunities deriving from logistic services, reducing the costs for logistics operators and increasing the benefits for the State, also reducing emissions of climate gas. It is correct then to think at last to a high railway speed, that it is however true and equal for the whole Country; to do this however it is essential to overcome misleading qualifications of the High speed, like the light meaning or to confuse it with the simple speedization, and to plan instead actions and projects that allow not only a reduction of the journey times, but also to have the same services for all the routes with suitable cars and to guarantee comfortable and safe trips. The high speed for the Mezzogiorno cannot only be announced, it must be contextualized in the territories. It is essential to understand that the fast railway network is possible only if, overcoming every barrier, we succeed to complete the Scandinavian-Mediterranean corridor, which constitutes a branching necessary for the connections to and from the South of the Country, realizing the stable territorial continuity between Calabria and Sicily, accelerating the plans of advance of priority works like the bridge on the Strait of Messina, a strategic work that would allow to make economically sustainable the investments necessary for the great infrastructures, like precisely the High Speed. Only so you can think to value also the role of the Italian ports, to intercept the intercontinental traffics goods and for the South preview specific participations for the intermodalità and the integrated logistics in the ports of Augusta, Gioia Tauro, Taranto and Naples, in order to upgrade the western branch of that Scandinavian-Mediterranean corridor for the goods, connect to the central net the airports of Lamezia Terme, Reggio Calabria, Catania, Palermo and Trapani for the development of crocieristiche activities and attract investments of the great airlines in order to move great flows of people from all the world. I would also like to make a brief mention of mission 1 on digitisation, given that the mobility sector is strongly affected by the phenomenon of the development of new technological tools, whose implementation allows us to have measurable objectives in terms of increasing the competitiveness of transport and logistics, together with economic growth, development and employment with investments to develop digital infrastructures, guarantee Internet access throughout the national territory, extending it in ultra-wide band, encouraging the use of fibre, new technologies, 5G and radio bridges for areas not reachable. Above all, we need to work with Europe to promote the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence and the cloud, enabling innovation, reducing waste of resources and increasing environmental sustainability and security. If valid projects are launched with the PNRR, the economic shock of overcoming the infrastructural gap between the territories will allow general growth to support the public debt of the past and that for which we engage with the recovery plan. We must take up the challenge of global competition, demonstrating to the world that with the enormous heritage of civilizations, values and excellences we possess we can overcome the deficit and harmonise development with the legality, efficiency of public administration, the reasoned use of resources and the protection of the environment. It is a challenge that, taking up the words of St. Francis of Assisi, beginning to do what is necessary, then what is possible, will suddenly surprise us to do the impossible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u33	Mr President, someone in this debate, and all the more out of these classrooms, has equated the recovery plan with the Marshall plan. In fact, in part it is so, at least as far as the casura in history is concerned, the opening of another chapter that with the Marshall plan was realized then in the Italian post-war period and that with this recovery plan is being realized today in Europe - and I say in the world - often in the unawareness proper of Italy. Then the Marshall plan was not only a plan for economic reconstruction, but for national reconstruction, which outlined the form of the democratic state of that time and its internal and external intervention capabilities. It was the base of the Atlantic Alliance; it was the base of Fanfani's Piano casa, of the highways, of the Italian car industry as the leader of the Italian industry. Then there was the awareness of what was happening and how Italy could take up a role in the world. Today there is no adequate vision. There is no vision of what Italy is facing and how it must deal with it. Yesterday it was clear to everyone that in today's relative majority party there is no such vision and, therefore, there is no government. And where do you see it? It is noted in what Grillo said in his blog (or, better, made Grillo write in his blog) compared to what Di Maio said in the Foreign Commission. It is as if in the Christian Democracy of that time there were those who praised Washington and those who enslaved themselves in Moscow. This contradiction is part of the recovery plan in its place of European and Italian reconstruction. That vision of Europeans and Atlanticists is missing because they are proudly patriots. We, who are a right-wing force, are in fact patriots and, consequently, as Italian patriots, we are Atlanticist Europeanists. One cannot be sufficiently pro-European and Atlanticist if one is not first patriots, because the nature of Europe and the Atlantic, that is, of the West, lies in the Italian identity. Without that Italian identity, there would not have been - and there is no - Europe and not even the West. This awareness must move us to realize, through the recovery plan, a new national project and a new state, that is not the interventionist State of then, but that is a strategic state, capable, that is, to outline the scenarios that, from time to time, can be realized through public instruments, norms, international agreements, as well as the resources to be invested. How must a strategic state and Italy of the future be realized today? In our opinion, focusing on two fields. In the government and its ministerial articulation there is already something, we recognize it, when we talk about the Ministry for the ecological transition and the Ministry for technological innovation and digital transition, because digital and green energy are the areas in which Italy can draw a new leadership in the Mediterranean, in Europe and globally. However, the following actions are needed: for example, the public-controlled broadband network; for example, bilateral agreements for connecting maritime cables; for example, the recovery of the European broadband backbone that belonged to us. If this is missing, vision is a utopia that is not realized every day. In conclusion, the industrial sectors must certainly be defended: but which ones? Where there are Italian companies and, consequently, chains that can become European champions today. The shipbuilding, the space, the steel industry, the car. One cannot leave the car to a European champion in which there is no presence of the Italian State as well as the French State. This is how we redesign the strategic vision of a nation, which recovers the three great gaps, rebuilding the national community that is lacking today. The gap that has widened between North and South; the gap between rich and poor; the gap between young and old. A community today more than ever is the nation. In the global world, the nation draws itself if it is also a community: otherwise, it is nothing! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u34	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u35	Mr President, representatives of the Government, a positive factor that I see in the text produced by the Commissions is when, in the initial part, we try to include the economic and investment effort of the Next Generation EU within a broader framework of public investment that will have to be realized in the coming years. There's the Next generation EU, there's the National Plan, but there's the 2021-2026 budget funds, there's the React-EU, there's the Cohesion Funds. This is precisely because we have to explain to ourselves and the Italians that not everything that will be done in the coming years is Next generation EU and that, beyond that, there is so much more to do to get the economy back on track. There's a data I've always insisted on, and it's the mathematical measurable of what we're gonna do. We will be judged in an objective, neutral and non-subjective way, by a parameter that will be precisely measurable and as such not dementible. I'll come back to the end. My speech will focus on infrastructure, in particular on mission 3, although there are important infrastructure on other missions as well. I would like to take mission 2, for example, where we will do well on water infrastructure, dams, purifiers, water networks and sewers, on great adduction and also, perhaps in an inadequate way, on hydrogeological failure. On this subject, as I said at the hearing of Minister Giovannini in the Commission, there is an objective problem of coordination of three ministries involved in water resource management: the Mit, which is now called otherwise, the Ministry for the ecological transition and that for agricultural policies. An important coordination effort is needed. The bulk of the infrastructure is in mission 3. We speak of over 30 billion euros: 28,3 for the high speed railway, another for the road maintenance, 3.68 billion euros for the intermodalità and the integrated logistics. In particular, we finally talk about high speed in the Mezzogiorno with two important works: the Salerno-Reggio Calabria, which I like to define the "longitudinal," and the "transversal" or "diagonal" Taranto-Potenza-Battipaglia. This concludes a high-speed network in the Mezzogiorno which does - I must say - justice in terms of civilization, democracy and social sustainability. The South had to have high speed and finally we are on our way to achieving it. Then - but this is my personal opinion and I hope that the Commission that we set up in the Count-II to the Ministry will give this result - I think that this design must be completed with the rapid crossing of the Strait with the bridge, so that the railway investments that we are making in Sicily also have a continuity with what happens in the rest of Italy. The choice of high speed, as well as being a matter of justice, sustainability and inclusion, is also a completely consistent choice with the European green deal and strongly coherent - this I want to claim - with the work of the governments of the last legislature. The "cure of iron" and the document Connecting Italy find completion in the recovery fund and in the fast Italy Plan. Commissioners will be appointed on two of these infrastructures. The appointment of the commissioners is important, especially because the name of the CEO of RFI has been chosen, therefore the maximum summit of the public society that must realize the work. However, insisting on commissioners must not undermine the main objective, which is to carry out works in this country without recourse to commissioners, without recourse to derogations, without recourse from time to time to artifices. It is necessary to put back hand - said Minister Giovannini - to the reengineering of all procedures (programming, design, procurement, execution and testing), while beginning to use that work that we had done in the law simplifications, unfortunately highly unused. In conclusion, Mr President, I have spoken about the South: 34% is little, because it just means continuing to give what is already there. To reduce the gap you have to give more and said Don Milani that there is no greater injustice than to make equal parts between unequals. I'm gonna close with the measurability. I said that there will be a number that will judge us: if in 2026 the sum of public investments in infrastructure will be n times what invested in 2019, with n significantly greater than 1, we would have transformed Italy, made better the life of Italians and let the economy start again. If that n is not greater than 1 this political generation will have lost its challenge, the economy will not start again, Italy will be on its knees again. So the measureability of the efforts that we will make, in my opinion, must be a spur to do quickly and well, because there will be no alibi. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u36	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u37	Mr President, Minister, Secretary-General, I believe that this report is the result of an important effort and I thank the Presidents of the Commission and all the Members who have worked on it. It of course serves the passage between the Count Government and the Dragons Government. I would just like to make two general points. Firstly, we are faced with a challenge, as all colleagues have already said; a Marshall plan, a great leap, which is not just about the pandemic and the dramatic consequences of the economic crisis. For the truth, we who are a country that, even before the pandemic, had not recovered the gap of the crisis of 2008 and had structural problems, basic production, productivity, quality and efficiency of services, we are faced with the need for a change of paradigm. I do not know - I say this with sincerity and intellectual honesty - whether the ruling class of this country (as a whole, not only the political forces and not only Parliament) is aware, as it was, for example, in the post-war period, mentioned by colleagues, of this leap. It's a real leap, and when you jump into a crisis, you also have to consider breaks, radical changes in direction. After all, either the model of development changes and, consequently, the social model or it is unthinkable to be able to recover the great inequalities that are going through, both territorial, both gender, and social. This change of perspective and development requires some radical elements and choices. I think that, in a country where the average size of our companies, 95%, is below the ten employees, it is indispensable (and there is evidence of this in the work done and in the recovery plan) to think of a new industrial policy, which promotes processes of support for the accumulation and construction of new production chains. Ecological transition does not mean (sincerely I have heard some mention of it in this debate) that until we have the ecological transformation we do as before: no. We must decide how to invest resources in industrial policy. Industry 4.0 invests in new supply chains or do we give rain resources? Look, this is a difficult and, in some ways, painful choice. Ecological transition means establishing the times to convert an industrial system and at the same time addressing the issue of work and the possibility of replacing an industrial plant linked to an old model of development with new industrial chains. Now, I'm so excited about the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, but do you want to know what I think? I think that Mise, ecological transition and agricultural policies are a single project, which must produce a process of radical transformation. I know this will be misunderstood, but I must say the same: we are a unique country. In the United States and in many parts of the world we are discussing the crisis of capitalism, the failure of a neoliberal approach and we are looking for a new path. Saying it here is something very complicated, because we can't get out of the '900s and ideological and cultural positionings of the '900s. We have adopted measures relating to the Cassa Integrazione, the Cassa Covid and the postponement of dismissals: everything is perfect, but we are faced with the issue of the work of the algorithm and the crushing of the work. The first issue we need to address is to reunite work and find ways to put work back together. This is the first point: a great change requires a conscious ruling class, which discusses and confronts itself, with a dialectic even hard. Let us discuss this, instead of dealing with the debate, which in my opinion is difficult to continue, between the openers and those who want to close everything. The President of the Council said that this depends on the data. Perfect. Let us try to make a contribution on this ground. The second point is a central theme and concerns the state in its various articulations. I agree with the sburocratization, but we must help to achieve a very difficult task for this Government (perhaps, from a certain point of view, the most difficult). We need to keep the times together. Just look at the structural funds and their history. Time is a central issue, which also changes the standing of politics, which often postpones a decision because it is complex. There is not only bureaucracy, but there are times, transparency and the fight against organised crime. Beware of what is happening and what is beginning to come out in recent months about the infiltration of the mafia and organised crime; this is a big problem. I say this with my heart: "We avoid the classic Italian commuting, so that one day everything stops, in the name of the fight against organized crime, and then we have to resume and pretend not to see for two years. No, you have to find a true synthesis; and the synthesis is called competences. If our country and the public administration do not have adequate skills, even more the medium-large municipalities will be able to make urban planning, because there is no more competence. It is a great choice of change, it takes courage. I conclude: the best are not enough, but we need the ruling class and politics, so it is up to all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u38	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u39	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor after listening to a debate which has been very instructive and which has seen a very fruitful work in the Commissions. I would like to stress a few points. There is one point that I think is known to all of us; I am referring to the fact that the Government and the majority that strongly supports it arise precisely from the fact that, in addition to the pandemic emergency, it was necessary to see, plan, structure and - pass me the term - reset everything that was the recovery game and, therefore, the plans that were to be analyzed. Mr Errani spoke of awareness. I would like to thank Mr Franco, who, during his first hearing, handed over the famous technical files; without them, neither a Member nor a citizen, nor when we go to explain to the people what this is about, we could be aware of it. This is a fundamental point. In this respect, it must be said that in general the funding lines that have been identified must be clear for a very simple reason. The Minister again yesterday - I hope he will repeat this today - told the House that there is not only recovery, but that the Government is thinking of a complementary line. This, in our view, is very important because, as we know, even when territories, municipalities, regions and universities, with great enthusiasm, present so many projects, they may not fall within the criteria that have been clarified in the technical files forwarded to Parliament. I say this because the positive thrust I feel coming from the country of course must be governed. The Minister, both in the Senate audition and yesterday in reply to the Chamber, indicated the models through which we want to give organicity to the intervention, and the organizational models with reference to the presidios both for the coordination at central level and at the level of bodies. All this can cause so many things to be left out. The organic vision to which the Government referred by the Minister's mouth is fundamental and can only be obtained at the central level and must be participated. The rapporteurs, in different forms, when they introduced their reasoning yesterday, stressed this need. Many colleagues have supported the need for an active verification, control and participation at all stages of the recovery implementation, also and above all in order to fill what perhaps has not been achieved. In a previous speech, if I am not mistaken by my colleague, Mr Nencini, it was pointed out that recovery is not concerned and does not take into account the question of Central Italy. I should like to say a few words about this because I believe that he has wanted to say something true, in the sense that we must go to the structural problems which, on the basis of the criteria, are mainly concentrated in the South. There is a belt of central Italy that is sliding fundamentally towards the South for the parameters. I think that some things can certainly be done through the recovery plan - however, many things are described in terms of infrastructure and digitization - while others must be framed in that organic vision that I referred to earlier. We know very well, just to give a trivial example, that Central Italy would carry out if it had the high speed, but we know very well what the plans and programs are. It is therefore necessary to establish inevitably the supports that fill these gaps, so that we are not faced with structural nodes, perhaps solved, but with holes and holes that open on the other side. This is the invitation I make to the government and I do not go any further. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u40	Mr President, my thanks go to the rapporteurs, to the Presidents of the Commission, but also to all my colleagues, because we have done an important job. It is not only the content of the seventy pages of the Document - and what we have managed to remove because it might have posed a problem - that constitutes a result that we have built together. Someone wondered if it makes sense: yes, it does because we have to remember where we started. In September 2020 it caused a stir that we began to talk about the projects to be included in the PNRR: I refer to that list of 557 projects that went from the green aquarium of Taranto to redo the square of the Farnesina (let me say, the Italian foreign policy cannot go from the 14 million euros spent to redo the marbles of a square). Since September 2020 we have done so. We have done it responsibly - and I reply to my colleague Errani - by trying to be the ruling and governing class of this country. The most important thing about the PNRR and what we have worked out is not the amount of the figure, that is, these blessed 200 billions and savings. This is certainly a lot of money, but - as my colleague Simone Bossi recalled yesterday - we will be able to use an even higher figure of deviation with our neighbour. I would like to mention those deviations: 11 March 2020, 20 billion; 24 April 2020, 55 billion; 23 July 2020, 25 billion; 20 November 2020, 8 billion; 20 January 2020, 32 billion. The total is 140 billion, but if we add the 25 billion deficit of the budget maneuver, we are 165 billion. And the next deviation or the next one will surely lead us to spend more. The hope is to succeed in doing it well, because it is not that it is free money, but money that our children will have to pay back. 37% of the resources planned will go to the ecological transition. Allow me to dwell on this. It is now clear where we start and where we want to come from. Well, you don't get there with electric scooters produced in China. This is the biggest problem: overcoming a wrong and ideological approach, and going to reason - this we wanted to do - about the ways, times and the costs and benefits of individual interventions, and above all - let me say this - about priorities, because unfortunately we cannot do everything. Leaving the ideologies also means - to quote my colleague Margiotta - to speak yes of the ports in the South and maybe of Sicily transformed into a hub in the middle of the Mediterranean, but without bridge on the Strait it becomes a bit 'hard; and it is not that you can expect to move Trieste or Genoa and think that certain goods do not arrive there. Being a country together does not mean claiming - let me say from the Centre - a southern issue in the face of the effort that the North is making, which is the one that has suffered the most from the pandemic and that has counted even more dead; instead, it means reasoning as a single country. And doing so with regard to the environment means focusing on the reduction of water dispersion: water is an important asset and we cannot have areas of Italy where, in order to get a liter of water into a house, we have to start two, because half of it is lost on the street. It means that 80 per cent of the inhabited areas without a working purification cannot be found in Sicily. These are the investments to be made, because they allow companies to work, invest, and give answers to citizens. The same applies to energy efficiency: the three-quarters of buildings are in the G-belt, it would be appropriate to give the possibility of investing, improving construction and not only to intervene with bans. The same could be said for the hydrogeological failure, for the protection of the sea and lakes. These are actions that give wealth, because they also have an important impact on tourism, because the fact that one third of the coasts of Messina are not bathing is a damage not only to the environment and to health, but also to tourism, as Minister Garavaglia recalled during the hearings in the Commission. Therefore, even stabilising the levels of Italian lakes and focusing on the quality of the environment means protecting and thriving the tourism sector. This is the approach that the League wanted to place within the PNRR. Another key issue is the waste cycle: it's nice to aim for zero waste, but you can't do it without plants. The shame of having 200,000 trucks moving garbage from the South to the North, where the plants are located must end. With the recovery funds and the others that we will put in the field we will finally be able to bridge this gap. All that is used for ecological transition is not a cost, it is an investment. It is up to us to do so, as in the parable of the talents, that from this sector, allowing businesses to invest and citizens to live better, can come the resources to pay the debt that we are contracting. We owe it not to Europe, but to ourselves and our children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u41	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u42	Mr President, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is a long-awaited step for the members of the Environment Commission, which is part of the 5 Star Movement, because it means being able to digitise and innovate in order to make an inclusive ecological transition, a necessary transition to bring about a rebalancing of the economic and social and environmental systems. The economy has the task of improving the quality of life of a community, but a community, in turn, has the duty to protect the ecosystem, which is the macrosystem that contains everything and without which we could no longer have any form of economy, be it post-Keynesian, linear, green, circular, attentive to deep ecology, integral ecology. For us at Movimento 5 Stars, gender equality, attention to our young people and the revival of the South are basic goals. We cannot raise the Italian economy if we do not fill the gap between the territories, if we do not increase the percentage of women in employment and if we do not put them in decision-making roles, if we do not create the conditions for creating green jobs for our children. In this way we call them from abroad, because of their brilliant minds, their creativity, their dreams we need. We need it to rebuild an Italy that is resisting with sacrifice and is fighting this pandemic that unites everyone, puts us all on the same level and makes us understand how the human being cannot control everything. We of Movimento 5 Stars have always been close to the citizens. We are simply the spokesmen of those who need it, of those who struggle every day to be able to open their own shop, of those who are forced to teach their pupils by being on the other side of the screen. What happened to the relationship? Unfortunately, we are forced to do this because of what is happening to us. We of Movimento 5 Stars are the spokesperson of those who have no voice. We are the spokesmen of our ecosystem and we ask this Government that the National Plan we are discussing today in this House is not greenwashing. [[Applause]] It is therefore necessary to ensure that only projects that are already ready are not financed. We must promote innovative planning, otherwise we risk having a multiplier of gender, generational and territorial imbalances. This is not just about exploiting and investing in special macroeconomic areas (SES), or building infrastructure, collecting, reusing and recycling waste (so making circular economy), decarbonising (from fossil energy to renewable ones), reducing waste of energy and natural resources, making our agriculture sustainable. They're all very good actions, but there's more. Today we are called to face the era of resilience and anthropocene and turn from anthropocentrism to biocentrism. I would have given another name to this plan, calling it a national plan for the care of the common house. This is what our young people asked us in the squares: give us a future, protect our home, save our planet from the climate changes that have already caused harmful events, from the depletion of natural capital and from pollution. We must protect, preserve and restore biodiversity, as well as our seas, rivers, soil, our landscapes and the air we breathe. We must protect the beauty of our Italy, the one that everyone envies us: both the natural one, and the one built by man, with our cultural beauties. We need to implement the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN 2030 Agenda. We must give a real boost to the European Green Deal, measure sustainability in order to protect the environment and implement a fair economic recovery, using methods such as life cycle evaluation and indicators such as carbon footprint to certify processes and technologies and create a market for sustainable services and products. It is necessary, for example, to protect bees for their ecosystem service that we all forget. It is also necessary to encourage the use of natural refrigerants for the cold chain, in order to eliminate highly impacting fluorinated gases for climate change, but still widely used in Italy. From the blog of a dear friend I esteem: I have been talking, crying and writing about the protection of the environment, the contrast to consumerism, the reduction of the use of energy, materials and working time. To a large extent, thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, these issues have finally arrived in Parliament and then to the Government. Twelve years after the foundation of the 5 Star Movement, on October 4, 2009, St. Francis' day, many of our goals are part of the agenda of government of a G7 country, our Italy. The 5 Star Movimento was born to bring to the Government the best innovative ideas for the protection of our common home and to create useful work and make competitive in an increasingly green market our production chains. For this reason he asked for the establishment of the Ministry for the ecological transition (MITE). What will the world be like after what is happening to us? It's up to us. If we want it to be better, no one has to be left behind. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan cannot fail. We need effective governance, Parliament's involvement, a fair reform process, a systemic biosphere vision and a new cultural approach. It is an approach that the Movimento 5 Stars has always pursued. We'll be there and we'll keep doing it. [[Applause.]] 11:34 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u43	The debate is closed. I communicate to the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators La Mura and others, No 2 by Senators Granato and Others, No 3, Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, De Petris, Malpezzi, Pharaoh and Unterberger, No 4, Senators Ciriani and Fazzolari, No 5, Senators Calandrini and others, and agendas G1, Senators Candiani, Bossi Simone, Steger, Damiani and Lorefice, and G2, Senators Ferrari, Santangelo, Ferrero, Malan, Errani, Sbrollini and Bressa. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur, Senator Stefano.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u44	Madam President, I would like briefly to thank all my colleagues and colleagues for the work they have done in the Commissions, but also for the rich debate we have had here, the officials and the structures of the Commissions, because we have done a huge job of listening to and synthesising important content, which I believe can fill some obvious gaps, which the draft PNRR, approved by the previous Government, carried with it. Even in the reply, taking advantage of the presence of Minister Franco, I would like to highlight three fundamental aspects. The first concerns timing and projects. Minister, we must ensure that we avoid the risk that, in the name of this tight timetable and of the equally demanding criteria that the Plan requires of us, only the projects already ready today will be financed. We would risk putting in old projects, which have been in the ministries' drawers for years, but above all I fear that this principle, in practice, can be translated into widening the gap between the territories. In fact, it is quite clear that the territories that are measured with some additional difficulties, have some more problems, even structural ones, to be solved. So I think we need to strike a balance with these issues. There is another theme that I want to highlight here too, today, and I say this without being afraid to do so with the right title: the Mezzogiorno. The Plan has such a high budget because, by virtue of the three criteria that Europe wanted to analyze, it has found, especially in the southern part of the country, of the important infrastructural deficits, but also of the important economic deficits. Resident population, GDP per head and employment are the indices that have meant that Europe would allocate 25% of the total budget to us. Let us be careful: the 34 percent clause for the regions of the Mezzogiorno is not enough, because it acts in an ordinary way, it does not recover the gap, but it keeps it as it is. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to pay particular attention to this aspect. It's not about bell tower claims, it's about trying to sew up a country divided in half. I believe that high speed must be a universal right, both in the South and in the North, because it is not possible to have two countries in one. Finally, with regard to the reallocation of the resources released, we know that the Free Resources Plan, because projects that had already been financed in this Plan are located and therefore free resources. Be careful to put those resources on projects which do not meet the stringent requirements of Regulation 2021/241, but which have a national interest. I am thinking - I repeat - of high speed, but also of the modernisation of the road and motorway network, including the South. In conclusion, to do so we need two important measures, the first of which is the introduction of ad hoc rules and procedures. With current ordinary rules, we will never be able to spend EUR 200 billion by 2026. We need transparency, legality, affirmation of constitutional principles, but we need ad hoc procedures, otherwise we do not succeed. Finally, I would like to mention the role of Parliament, and I believe, Minister, that it must help us in this. We must have a role of intercourse. We strongly want these indications to be included in the final draft of the PNRR, but above all we want Parliament to continue to be informed about the evolution, through regular evaluations in the Commissions that have dealt with the PNRR, which I believe will also help to strengthen the government's action. Minister, I am aware of your sensitivity and I hope that Parliament will be aware of the real projects. In fact, we need to know how "to land" these resources and to be able to participate. I would therefore like to thank all my colleagues and thank my colleague, Senator Pesco, for this has been a challenging experience. It was also necessary to do this operation of listening to the Italy system, which had not been done and which was another limit. We did it: we listened to about 300 subjects. It has been useful and I believe the report is a good summary of the country's expectations. I renew your invitation to speak with us with the same willingness that has been expressed so far. I would also like to thank the Secretary-General and, above all, my colleagues from the 14th and 5th Commission for their shared work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u45	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u46	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Sartore for having been here throughout the debate and the Minister for having participated in the debate this morning. I think it is important that you too should be aware of the requests made by my colleagues today. The requests have been countless and - I would say - all of value because they have referred to the contents of the Plan. They stuck to the Plan indicating an improvement according to their point of view. This is extremely important. I only remember a few and forgive me if I don't quote them all, but it would be difficult. I'm off to health care. My colleagues, Giuseppe Pisani and Mautone, have spoken, but also a colleague of the League who has made us understand what are the real difficulties that the health sector is experiencing today with regard to the staff who are missing, especially the necessary staff in the territorial area in which the health service should be developed. We understand that we need more technology, more digitization, to facilitate - it is a very simple thing - triage in health care. You really need to be efficient to give care as quickly as possible so as to save more human lives. Logically, a lot has been said about industry and, therefore, I remember my colleague Urso, who spoke to us about the strategic supply chains for our country to invest in. Much has been said about tourism. I remember my colleague Croatti, but also my colleague Tiraboschi, who made us understand how it is necessary to invest in tourism, in creative companies and in those that produce entertainment content to make sure that our country can be resumed in a field in which we have always been masters and we must continue to be one. To do this, you have to invest in structures. We have the superbonus tool; we should be able to extend it in the best possible way to as many supply chains and areas as possible to renew our building and productive heritage. We have had a lot of speeches and, for example, Mr Errani has made it clear how important it is to invest in skills, in terms of public administration. Unfortunately, we are in a period, which has lasted for many years, in which little human resources have been renewed within the municipalities and territorial authorities. This has meant that, unfortunately, skills have been depleted. We need to invest a lot and ban drum competitions in order to be able to strengthen our structures, otherwise we will not be able to carry out this immense project that aims to restart our nation. I still remember all my colleagues talking about the environment. I would particularly like to focus on the environment, Minister. As I recalled yesterday - I still remember it today and I also mentioned it on 13 October when we presented our report on the guidelines - there is a strong absence in this project, which is the protection of ecosystems, the protection of marine, coastal environments, of the territory. Unfortunately, in Italy we have suffered for decades real environmental dramas that need to be sheltered. I know that extraordinary resources are needed, but I also know that where damage has occurred, resources can be found from those who created them. It's not easy, but we have to work. Well, this Plan, which speaks of rebirth, recovery, revival, starting from the environment, must necessarily commit a little more to the environment, and therefore find ways of restoring where the damage has been created; starting from green infrastructure, the natural areas that serve and provide services to citizens. We have also seen that this Plan is very business-oriented and investment-oriented. It is true, there are investments to be made, but we must ensure that these do not have that greenwashing aspect that my colleagues Pellegrini, L'Abbate, have reminded us, but also many others, as regards the fact that some investments seem green, but in reality they are not because their impact on the environment can be truly destructive. We must ensure that resources are spent well. I agree with what Mr Stefano said earlier; I repeat my request. First of all, Minister, we need to understand how this Plan will come to Parliament, not to be approved but at least to give Parliament and therefore the country the real content you are developing these days. I realize that you still have one month to refine it, and I hope that this will be done in accordance with the requests made by this House. I hope that when you send it to Brussels - but perhaps even earlier - there will be a passage to the Chambers for information. I am talking more about details, because we have analyzed a document which, however, is the Plan you are working on, a somewhat old plan. We would need to know what changes you are making. Mrs Gallone has assured us that the Plan is totally revolutionized; she probably has more data than we have, because we have examined the original project, we have examined what the Ministers have told us - that is, that the Plan has not been upset - so I ask you what are the innovative aspects that you are adding because it is essential for us to know how to give answers also to the citizens. Minister, let me ask you this prayer: send us items as soon as possible to ensure that our citizens know what the real contents of this Plan are. [[Applause]] Looking at the Parente and Valente colleagues, I cannot fail to recall another fundamental aspect of the protection of the female gender, which is mentioned in the Plan, but we must certainly do even more. In Italy we have a diversity of treatment between men and women, which unfortunately still weighs a lot. We must be able to work hard both by public administration, with instruments already developed and by companies and society as a whole. It is therefore necessary to improve the instruments available to ensure that the generational, but above all gender-based, gap is bridged. Minister, that's all I'm saying. Thank you again for your presence and I really thank all my colleagues, officials, President Stefano and all those who have helped us to finalise this report, which I think is really an important moment for our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u47	I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your invitation to reply to the debate on the report by the Commissions on the proposal for a National Recovery and Resilience Plan. I also thank you for the many indications given in your speeches both yesterday and this morning; they are extremely constructive and valuable for the follow-up of our work. I am sorry and I apologise that I was not here yesterday when your work began in connection with the work of the Council of Ministers. As I pointed out in my hearing at the Joint Commissions on 8 March, the National Plan is a great opportunity to start a process of lasting growth for the country, which comes out from about a quarter of a century of rather poor or modest growth compared to other major European countries. The success of the Plan requires a choral effort of the various institutions involved and an open and constructive dialogue; it requires a strategy of the country, a vision for what the country will be in 2026, 2030 and possibly in the following decades. The transmission to Parliament of the technical notes relating to the missions involved in the first draft of the PNRR, prepared by the previous Executive and from which our work started, was guided by the desire to facilitate a close dialogue between Parliament and the Government, with a view to more complete transparency. The draft of the Plan on which we are working has an information content that becomes increasingly richer, in line with European requirements but also and above all to allow an in-depth evaluation by the institutions and public opinion. Every euro that will be committed, every euro that will be spent will have to be reported. I would remind you that the non-refundable contributions also impose a burden on the European budget to which our country is then obliged to contribute. In recent months, Parliament has done a valuable job of interlocating with institutions and social partners. The work carried out by the European Union's budget and policy committees, together with the other standing committees in the various areas of competence, has been intensive and challenging. The observations and requests of many subjects (institutions, trade associations, experts) have been collected; as has just been said, this was a great exercise in listening to Italian society. Parliament's summary work, which is part of the Commission's reports on the National Plan and the resolutions voted by the Senate and the House, will contribute decisively to the final phase of defining the Plan here at the end of April. It is a very thorough reconnaissance work that must be fully used. The Government's commitment to make use of the indications contained in the resolutions, related reports, in the drafting of the new version of the Plan and the commitment to involve Parliament before its transmission to the European Commission stems not only from the obligation to comply with the resolutions, but also and above all from the conviction that a strategic sharing of the Plan is possible only through the full involvement of all the institutions, in the first place of Parliament. This, of course, concerns not only the current stage of preparation, but also the whole subsequent phase of implementation until 2026. In the light of your comments, reports and speeches in this House today, allow me to share some thoughts with you about the work we are doing in these weeks. As you know, the coordination of this activity is incardinated to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. However, I would like to say that the entire Government is involved in the drafting of the Plan. As you know, the European Commission has, through its guidelines, defined recovery and resilience plans as reform and investment plans. The emphasis on reforms is fundamental, not only to ensure the effectiveness and rapid implementation of the same investments, but also to overcome those structural issues that have for a long time determined in our country unsatisfactory growth and inadequate employment levels especially for young people and women. Many of these weaknesses were mentioned this morning. He also recalled, for example, how the list of issues to be dealt with now actually goes back in time. The resources for Italy of the recovery and resilience fund are estimated at a total of 191.5 billion euros; of these resources about 60% will have to be allocated to objectives of digital modernisation of the country and ecological transition, with particular reference to the fight against climate change. These are precise, relevant and challenging criteria. They are not only the key to building a more modern and greener Italy. They are also essential objectives to keep up with European development, creating a large market for products, services and new skills, from which our businesses and our young people will be able to take full advantage. We must ensure, with this Plan, that young people and businesses are at the heart of our recovery effort. I am referring here to companies in all sectors: first of all, the manufacturing sector; services, including, of course, tourism; agriculture, which has often been mentioned this morning. The Plan must help the transformation and strengthening of our production system. I would like to reiterate, as I have already pointed out on other occasions, that the Plan is a very important development opportunity for our country, but it is not the only instrument of economic policy to achieve goals of growth, inclusion and efficiency. The economic policy strategy must include the European Structural Funds, the Development and Cohesion Fund, as well as, of course, ordinary legislation. I would remind you that 15-year investment funds, included in the last five budget laws, have investments of nearly 200 billion. This leads me to two observations. The first is that the Plan is a valuable additional tool. In this respect, I would like to say that a significant part of the projects financed by the PNRR will involve new initiatives. Moreover, it is clear that the identification and definition, both of existing projects and of new projects, is based on criteria aimed at concentrating resources on the most innovative actions, with a greater impact on the economy and on work. The additional investment expenditure provided for in the Plan should not be offset by less ordinary expenditure, as has happened in other cases in the past. For this reason, we need to improve our ability to manage investment projects, which requires more effective and streamlined procedures (this point has been mentioned very often this morning) and also technical structures, in public administrations, central and not central, that are stronger. Second observation. It is important to remember that projects not included in the Plan will not necessarily be provided for. Not only are there the other national and European instruments, which I mentioned earlier, but we are also thinking of forming an ad hoc financing line, complementary to the Plan, which includes investment projects that, although worthy of being included in the Plan for spirit and purpose, are excluded from it because they do not meet some more stringent criteria. I would also like to focus on how the preparation of the Plan, which sees us engaged in these days, is incorporating the three cross-cutting issues concerning the inclusion that the Plan aims to address: gender equality, young people and territorial imbalances. The entire Plan is based on a perspective of rebalancing gender gaps and includes measures to ensure substantial equality in different areas, not only work, but also social and cultural. Within this framework, the Plan provides for actions to support employment and entrepreneurship for women and the implementation of various enabling actions, starting from a strong strengthening of social services, such as nursery schools. Moreover, the objective of ensuring the full participation of young people in the cultural, economic and social life of the country, investing in education and research and intervening with policies to increase the level of youth employment, in the short and long term, is across the board. Beyond the indirect effects for young people resulting from the development of the new sectors pursued by the Plan, direct impacts are expected on the new generations, in particular in the education and research mission, with projects dedicated to the fight against school leaving, the digitisation of teaching, the strengthening of research; and in the inclusion and cohesion mission, with interventions on active policies and at work and the strengthening of universal civil service. School, university, human capital are crucial to our country. We must also overcome the scars induced by the pandemic on learning processes last year and this year. One of the central elements of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, namely the decisive transformation of our economy towards an inclusive and sustainable growth paradigm, is in itself a major contribution to the well-being and quality of life of the younger generations. I would remind you that the climate issue is also one of the priorities of the Italian G20 Presidency. The National Plan will help to reduce territorial imbalances. In this case, too, it will operate in two ways: a direct one, through the financing of interventions located in the Mezzogiorno, and an indirect one, through actions of a transversal nature that have a strong impact on the areas of the South and the Islands. Overall, the resources allocated to the territorial areas of the Mezzogiorno will significantly exceed the share of 34%. The question of resources is crucial, but equally important is that of the organization of intervention, which involves infrastructure, first of all high speed (this is a theme often mentioned this morning), school, health, agriculture, kindergartens and other sectors. The economic weakness of the South has complex causes that require action on several fronts. One last point I would like to focus on is the governance of the Plan, in particular with regard to the interlocation between central government and territorial authorities. As rightly pointed out in the Senate's and Chamber's reports, the definition of a streamlined and well-defined governance at the central level of territorial self-government is certainly a crucial issue. In gathering Parliament's call on this point, I would like to remind you that the final proposal for a Plan will contain a description of an organisational model based on a central coordination structure, linked to specific sectoral offices taken all the administrations involved, together with instruments and structures for evaluation, monitoring and implementation of interventions. This framework will ensure sound financial management, compliance with European and national rules and compliance with quantitative targets and intermediate targets. In addition, in order to facilitate the effective and timely implementation of the Plan, it is planned to establish a package of rules of procedural simplification that facilitates the concrete implementation of the interventions, also in the case of interventions whose implementation will be the responsibility of the territorial authorities. The question of procedures, as I have often mentioned this morning, is the most important challenge we have to face. On this point, as on the reform issue, which is essential in the construction of an effective Plan, Parliament will have a central role in ensuring a significant contribution or a broad debate, but also a concrete capacity to quickly identify the most appropriate solutions in the various parliamentary steps required in the coming months and years for the implementation of the reforms. Finally, the governance envisaged will ensure that Parliament is kept up to date on the state of implementation of the actions and on the achievement of the objectives. In particular, a centralised public digital platform with data on the implementation of the Plan projects will be made available. In conclusion, the Plan represents a complex organisational challenge, especially - and I come back to this - in the implementation phase. It requires a strategic vision and a design and implementation capacity that we are trying to descend into the Plan itself. We must complete it and make it an instrument of development and redesign of the country. The resolutions adopted by Parliament will help us in this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u49	I would ask Mr Sartore to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u50	Mr President, on motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 5 the Government's opinion is against. On motion for a resolution No 3 the Government's opinion is in favour. On the G2 agenda, the Government returns to the Assembly, as it commits the Senate. The Government's opinion is in favour of the G1 agenda (text 2), in the reworded version, of which I read: It commits the Government to transmit to the Senate, periodically, in relation to the European deadlines, the necessary documentation on the achievement of the goals and intermediate objectives contained in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, in order to allow the Chambers to verify the state of implementation of the interventions, the respect of the times and the performance obligations provided for in the EU Regulation/2021/241.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u51	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u54	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Ministers and Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, despite the tight deadlines, the Commissions have managed to draw up a series of reflections which enrich the path for the final drafting of the Plan and a lot of considerations on which it is impossible to take into account in a few minutes. Perhaps it would have been better a more agile document, indicating governance and reform strategy, without going into the details of planning. I shall therefore confine myself to a few points, but if there is a fundamental concept expressed in the report, it is that of the right to business restart. After thirteen months of slowing down and closing down, aid alone is not enough, but must be built on a radically different context. The first point in the new context concerns the role of credit institutions. As stated in the report, the current banking rules risk becoming an obstacle to access to credit by companies that have all the cards in place to raise themselves on the market and that only serve a liquidity problem. This is something that should be observed very carefully, as well as the commitment to ensure that reforms really lead to greater efficiency of the system. Well then, new recruitments in the public administration, with the aim of putting young forces and motivated skills, which are lacking today and which instead will be decisive for the development of projects. Well the commitment to a radical simplification normative, in order to make sure that Italy is not remembered as the country where, in order to do a public work of 25 billion (which is the average cut of the recovery projects), it takes no less than ten years or where, to open an ice cream shop, it serves 73 fulfillments at 26 agencies and 13,000 euros. Abroad, however, the certainty of the times is dictated by the mechanism of silence-consent and by the fact that the controls are always ex post. That is why we need to immediately suspend the procurement code and legislation which merely transposes the essential lines required by the European Union; immediately we need a clean cut to those bureaucratic bottle packages which, as Europe reminds us, are also at risk of frustrating a strategic measure such as that of 11%. Mr Giovannini is therefore right when he says that the European Commission's final judgment should not be awaited for the start of infrastructure projects. Here it is not a question of reducing the times of realization of the works by 10 percent, but of reducing them by half. By 2026 it is not only necessary to spend the money, but also to ensure that the works are working. And then, Mr President, it is true that EUR 4.5 billion for cashback is far too much; resources belonging to the community are reallocated between those with greater spending capacity and this distortion on such large amounts is unacceptable. We are recovering these resources in order to devote them to other measures, for example to consolidating school-work alternation or to strengthening housing policies, on which very interesting passages are spent in the Commission report. On the one hand, the instruments for the sustainability of mortgages must be strengthened, but on the other hand, we must also look at what other countries do, where in the first years of the new family we pay only interest and not capital. An equally important chapter is that of tax reform: not only reducing compliance and taxation for web giants, but above all a tax at the service of economic recovery, with more effective tools on the transfer of tax credits, which is much more necessary to enhance the various measures on the redevelopment of real estate. This heritage must also include hotels and accommodation facilities: tourism must be at the centre of the recovery, because, as Professor De Rita explained, the recovery will go largely from those sectors that have a capacity to drag the whole economy and, among them, tourism is the main. We therefore need not only a substantial strengthening of the measures of the support decree, but also, as Minister Garavaglia said, the enlargement of the superbonus by 110% in order to finance fire prevention and other interventions that do not only concern energy efficiency. Another theme is the mountain. The pandemic has increased the difficulties of our territories. For this reason, when it comes to reducing territorial disparities, it must not only be understood as that between North and South, but also as that between small and large centres, between internal and coastal realities, between plain and mountain. In the text we approve today, there is a very strong commitment to digitization and this is certainly one of the most important nodes, since, just to give an example, only 4% of farms are digitised. We believe, however, that it is not enough: we need a system reflection on how to decline the great objectives of the Plan with respect to the specificity of these territories. From the fight against depopulation to that against hydrogeological failure, from the protection of biodiversity to the safeguarding of economic activities, from the generational issue to agriculture, the mountain requires calibrated interventions. I shall conclude, Mr President, with some reflections on governance. The first is that architecture is not yet clear and in particular who will play the role of contracting station, which is certainly not a secondary aspect on the possibility of success of the Plan. I believe that this node should be dissolved as soon as possible, giving a central role to the Provinces, which will be important especially in the territories where there are no great administrative realities. The second reflection concerns the definition of a criterion for determining which projects will be financed by grants and which by loans, as well as the specific section for projects which for reasons of time or of cantierability remain formally outside, but which can be recovered from ordinary European programming funds. Parliament's role in monitoring and monitoring the progress of projects with quantitative and qualitative criteria will also be very important, as well as, of course, in all the steps ahead of us this month. More important, however, will be the debate that will arise in Europe in the coming months. We must ensure that the recovery plan becomes a structural element of European policy in order to speed up the integration process. This crisis has reminded us of the importance and absolute value of Europe. Italy will come out of this, if it will really live the next few weeks with courage and radicality of the choices. Recovery is a historic opportunity: let's make the most of it. I therefore call on the Group for the Autonomous Left to vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 3 by the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u57	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, today, one year after the beginning of the health emergency that has marked the most serious crisis since the Second World War, today that we continue to mourn our deaths and to evaluate the economic and social cost of the pandemic, in the face of the hope of a not distant way out represented by vaccines, for which we finally have a plan, we feel less fragile and less vulnerable. Now we cannot fail the challenge that we had and that we still face: to rewrite a new National Recovery and Resilience Plan. That is our task today. The European response, as we have said, has been there; from the suspension of the procedures of the Stability Pact, extended to 2023, on whose necessary changes we will have to reflect soon, to the European temporary support instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment in an emergency (Sure), to the resources of the European Investment Bank (EIB) and especially to the intervention of the ECB, from the Whatever it takes to the 1800 billion of the pandemic line. Now is the time of the national response to free up all the potential for growth, courageously attacking the weaknesses of the system starting from the low annual growth levels, the progressive demographic decrease to which the family act and the single grant, approved two days ago, can give a concrete response starting from the high levels of unemployment and the low levels of schooling. It is precisely looking to the future that we are called today to plan the resources at our disposal of the Next generation EU. It is a great responsibility for us who are one of the biggest beneficiaries, with 209 billion, to tackle certainly the current difficulties generated by the crisis, but also for overcoming the persistent territorial differences between a North and a South still too far, between the center and the periphery, for the fight against social inequalities, but also generational and gender. These are resources that will have to accompany, above all, the ecological transition - to which, Minister, more than 37%, including biodiversity, which is absent from the previous plan - towards climate neutrality in 2050, but also digitisation, for a development that should be sustainable, as well as sustainable, also from the financial point of view, for what we have today, but above all for what our children will have to repay. The report presented today is important and is aware of the useful work carried out in these two months by the Commissions, with hearings of stakeholders, local authorities and civil society, as well as the priorities indicated by the Ministers most involved by the new Government. Certainly, the new Plan must take into account the indications contained in the Commission's new guidelines and, above all, must adhere to the conditionality laid down in the recent regulation of 18 February. It is therefore necessary to rewrite the six missions and measures which will have to respond to important general principles, starting with gender equality, but also horizontal principles such as additionality of resources - as you said earlier, Minister - which means that measures already contained in the current budget or expenditure items already covered by other resources cannot be financed. There is also conditionality with regard to budgetary balances. The Plan will be assessed on the basis of consistency, efficiency of expenditure and relevance and will therefore be in discontinuity with that approved by the previous Government Count, who had appeared to us immediately lacking both in strategy and in political soul. We had asked that we make haste and that there should be investment in works and infrastructure, as well as more resources for health and youth, to which we must devote a specific pillar, because it is not enough to consider them as a cross-cutting priority or target of the entire Plan. I repeat that we need a specific pillar. We also asked for more resources for culture and tourism. A plan is needed to finally indicate sound governance. I think it is good to concentrate it, Minister, at your Ministry in coordination with the other individual departments and local authorities. This for our country is the great challenge: to overcome the bottlenecks and structural nodes that have always slowed down the realization of works and a full and efficient use of European resources towards simplified procedures, with greater decision-making power, even replacement, compared to the inertia of the different actuators, indicating also the methods of anti-fraud control (as the Commission requires us), with a constant monitoring of the results. These are real conditionality, therefore, which means that, alongside investment, we will have to have the strength to carry out the important reforms, also indicated in the country recommendations, of the European Semester. For us, above all, it means reform of public administration, simpler and more streamlined, also with the introduction of new competences, for an administrative culture finally oriented towards the result; it means reform of justice, more efficient, and reform of education, for the most important of the factors, namely our children and their knowledge, without forgetting the health - today divided into twenty different systems - that must be strengthened and made more resilient. During this pandemic, we also learned how much the country's economic resilience depends on the health system's ability to respond and how much our resilience depends on strengthening the internal market to bring back within the European area to rehearse security strategies, such as health care, from vaccines. We have had Next generation EU and the European turning point, despite the uncertainty of ratifications of decisions on own resources, but certainly the National Recovery Plan requires the Italian turning point. We hope that the Plan will contain important forecasts, which we indicate as a priority: transition 4.0 for technological innovation of the enterprises; fast and intermodal connections (railways and airports, starting from the South); local public transport towards sustainable mobility; rehabilitation of school buildings; more kindergartens; interventions of energy efficiency; new sources such as hydrogen, but also contrast to hydrogeological failure; urban regeneration and social housing. This does not forget, as I said before, interventions for biodiversity, of which inland waters are valuable custodians. Mr President, as you suggested, let us rethink the forecast in the previous draft of the Plan, the billions per existing projects, because we must not only think of cutting down the public debt we have today, but rather of making it sustainable for the future, releasing a great strength for the potential for lasting growth. In addition, we agree with you on the non-opportunity to include in the Plan the share of the Development and Cohesion Fund resources (the famous 20 billion foreseen in the previous Plan), which we could, on the contrary, free from the time conditionality and recovery facility procedures to keep them out, as a reserve of actions aimed at pursuing the same cohesion objectives. So, the PNRR is a real maturity test for our country. Next generation EU was a decisive step towards a more integrated Europe, with a common debt, and a truly European budget. It is now up to us to show that we are up to it, because, as President Draghi said in this House on the day of trust, there is no Europe without Italy and outside Europe there is less Italy. So let us not miss the opportunity we have before us. We have confidence in this Government, so pending a confrontation here in Parliament with the new PNRR, we declare the Italian Viva-P.S.I. Group's vote in favour. the motion for a resolution by a majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u60	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister, because I see him here today, and I hope and hope that in his replies he will be able to confirm the issues that we are going to put and on which we do not yet have any clarity, even though he has already spoken in some way. You will understand what I am talking about, because, as you may know, Minister, we have tabled a double resolution today, which is not usually the case, because the parliamentary groups usually have a single resolution. We have done this because what we are talking about is a method resolution, with regard to the definitive approval of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, on the substance of which the colleagues of the Brothers of Italy have already expressed during their speeches, whom I thank all, deepening many of the issues that are clearly within their competence. I have already reported to the Commission - the Presidents of Commissions 5a and 14a, Senators Pesco and Stefano are here - where there has also been a close confrontation (I do not want to talk about confrontation) and I would also like to reiterate in this Chamber that we are discussing up to now, Minister, an old and outdated Plan, even if you said that we are starting from the Plan of Count and Gualtieri. In our view, it was necessary for Parliament to be made aware of the changes that the current Government is making to the draft drawn up by the previous Government, which is currently completely unknown to this House. On the contrary, we believe that the Chambers should have the opportunity not only to examine the final version of the recovery plan, which, as you know better than I, will be presented in Brussels on 30 April, but also possibly to influence this proposal and amend it in the appropriate parliamentary passages. I hope that today you can tell us clearly, without leaving any doubt, what will be the parliamentary path that will first of all have to see us as protagonists from here to 30 April. What will be next we will see it from May 1st onwards. This is why the Italian Brothers Group has requested that this Plan should follow a path that ensures the certainty of the parliamentary process clearly provided for in the Chamber and Senate Regulations, to give certainty and guarantee of participation in the political debate and all the political forces present in this Parliament, including the political force I represent and which - I would like to remind you - is the only parliamentary group present in this House to the opposition of this Government. As my fellow Presidents Mr Pesco and Mr Stefano know, and as they themselves have told us in response to us in the Commission, this Government is not in agreement with this procedure, which puts the parliamentary committees and the parliamentary classrooms at the centre of its work. Let us even imagine - and I would like to anticipate this and hope that you can deny me in your replies - that, given the complicated situation in the Government and the time it takes and considering the motion for a majority resolution that has just been tabled, the Government will present itself next time (i.e. before the 30 April deadline) directly to the House with the new Plan and with the carrying out of simple communications by the President of the Council of Ministers, thus avoiding all the parliamentary process that we would like to do instead. Mr President, we find it unheard of gravity that Parliament cannot intervene on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which decides not only the investments in the coming years, but also the future of the nation in the coming decades. I hope the Minister can listen to me, because we are the only force of opposition. Minister, if this happens (and we,1 unfortunately, fear that it will happen) Members and senators will be called upon to play a mere notary role, which in fact degrades the role of Parliament and the significance of participatory democracy, as well as deceiving Parliament for what the President of the Council of Ministers told us at the time of its establishment. We believe that the clear commitment to putting the role of parliamentary committees and assemblies at the heart of political action is failing. I would also like to remind you that on the PNRR there has been a crisis of government - yet another - and there have been games of palace that have held Italy paralyzed for more than two months, allowing a change of majority that, in the perspectives in which we had been told, should have had a different impact on the drafting of the Plan. As always, however, everything is being left in the hands of the Government, since we continue to discuss a Plan that, as demonstrated by what is happening, is now over. Minister, we must not forget that the recovery plan is - yes - a great opportunity for Italy to emerge from an economic crisis triggered by a global pandemic, but the country - it knows better than we do - is not already receiving concessions from Europe, but contracting a debt of 127 billion euros, which we will certainly leave to future generations and our children. For this reason, we cannot let the government alone decide what will be done on this Plan. We need to be in a position to know what the interventions, investments and reforms will be to do in order to have the financial resources that the recovery plan allows us to receive. As my colleagues in the House of Deputies have already pointed out before and in the Senate today, we believe that in the draft that we have examined (and that we know that we are already out of date) and in the report that we are debating there are far too many issues to be included in the recovery plan. More can and must be done, including aspects that have been neglected, such as the birth and birth of children. From this point of view, Italy is still and let us remember that a country that no longer has children is destined to die. Similarly, the justice chapter, to which this Plan devotes less than one percent of its resources, which is too little, must deserve special mention. At least 5% of the funds that will come must be allocated to justice, so that they can be directed towards all those measures that can help to reduce their time. In recent days, our President, Giorgia Meloni, has anticipated all the issues of our interest to Minister Cartabia. We must therefore take note that there is no attention even in the commitments made, as happens with reference to Rome Capital. So, in conclusion, I want to make it clear that we believe that there is still ample room for improvement on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but if Parliament is put in a position to work. For this reason, the vote of the Brothers of Italy Group will abstain on the motion for a majority resolution, with the hope and hope, Minister, that there will be a change of pace on the part of the Government. Clearly, our vote will be in favour of the two motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group, the Brothers of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u63	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I would like to thank the Presidents of the two Commissions meeting, Mr Pesco and Mr Stefano, and all the members of the Commission, for they have indeed been two months of intense work, which have been a pungolo and an incentive to help all of us to have clearly understood the framework in which we were working, in a undoubtedly very difficult year, perhaps the most difficult that the country has ever faced since the post-war period. We are seeing the light at the end of the tunnel, thanks to science and research, with the realization, in less than twelve months, of more than a safe and effective vaccine. However, we are still in a very complex phase, in which it is necessary to hold on and we all have a duty to show the country unity and responsibility with respect to a common objective, that is to get out of the health crisis to return to normal, because on the health and life of people we cannot divide. The virus affects everyone indistinguishably, but in times of crisis and emergency societies face the scarcity of resources, which amplifies inequalities and fragility and increases the distance between those who can have an opportunity and those who will not make it. That is why we must rethink our society in the light of the devastating impact that this pandemic has had on our lives, exacerbating the structural problems that afflict our country and that for many years have prevented us from growing and widening the gap between people: a gender, territorial, generational and formative gap, a gap of opportunity. Italy cannot face this impact alone, we have always said so. A year ago, Prime Minister Draghi published a manifesto of the new Europe at the time of the Covid, in which he evoked a change of mentality, as during the war. He said that we must support each other as Europeans, in order to deal with this, which is obviously a common cause. It is a beautiful reminder, to find again the authentic spirit of European integration, which is based on the awareness that solidarity between countries is not an option, but is the only way we have available to get out of this crisis. The first step in this path was the Next Generation EU, a tool to be allocated to States to address the economic and social impact of the pandemic, ensuring growth, but also the ability to resist future crises. For the amount of resources, this is an investment that happens once in a generation and that means that all of us here - I know we all feel the same way - have a huge responsibility. I think it is very right to acknowledge the previous Government that it has signed a historic agreement, because, apart from the resources, for the first time the States have decided to do joint debt, to finance plans against the recession and Italy has been the largest beneficiary of these appropriations. The only conditions are the quality of expenditure and reforms. However, we need to make the Next Generation EU permanent and change the Stability Pact to become a real social and environmental sustainability pact. If we succeed in doing so, we will have secured the country for the next few years and will have strengthened the solidarity logic in which we share the risks and fragility, the logic for which the social protection of citizens and the construction of opportunities for everyone are central, in a Europe that is a network of protection and possibilities. [[Applause]] We believe in Europe; we have always, and never changed our minds: we thought so yesterday and we still think so today; Italy without Europe would be more alone and would have fewer opportunities and we are convinced that this deeply European government will be able to make its contribution to this project. We are pleased that those who, until a few months ago, called for Italexit today have converted on the path of Europeanism, because it is never too late and it only comes out of these problems if we are all together. To make sure that the opportunity we have is not wasted, this money must be spent well. Spending well means investing on tomorrow and not on measures to gather consensus today; it means young people, women, education, training, innovation and work and creating the conditions that will allow our economic system to set in motion a path of growth, which translates into greater well-being for citizens. In order to spend well - we know - we need reforms and to combine objectives with instruments, and it is no coincidence that the European Commission has defined recovery and resilience plans as investment and reform plans. Reforms are the tools to ensure the effectiveness and rapid implementation of investment, but also to overcome our structural limitations that have stifled growth. Speeding up does not mean neglecting transparency and legality and we will have to monitor and protect the many companies that are on the market by complying with the rules. Reforms serve to do the good of society and not to act against it, to break down privileges and not to maintain those of the few; to improve the condition of all citizens and not only to favour that of some and in particular - we think it is among the priorities - a reform of the public administration, which can no longer be seen as an obstacle to change, but as a driving force to drive it. We need to be at the side of the local authorities who will find themselves interpreting all these changes that are required and the territories will have to be protagonists. Reforms are not just regulatory acts; they are political processes, but also the keystone to building a stronger and more modern Italy, able to keep up with other countries and promoting employment, sustainable and inclusive growth, social and territorial cohesion. Minister, to make reforms we need to be courageous, we know, and not look at electoral deadlines (this is something that politics will have to deal with, because, if it is able to plan and design, it is the one with the capital "P"). This policy puts young people at the centre: the future is theirs, but we always talk too little about it; our children will live in the world of the fourth industrial revolution, the most complex. We must put them in a position to be in this new world as protagonists, to dream of a future and to see their life processes realized. We need to accompany them through new education and training models, which give them the tools to face and overcome the challenges (higher technical institutions (ITS), universities, vocational degrees, science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) and research). Italy is also a country that mortifies women with very low female employment rates. Without work, there is no freedom for women - as President Valente of the Feminicide Commission always reminds us - but neither does economic growth. [[Applause]] In our country women work in worse conditions and, too often, outside decision-making places. Let it be clear: the investments envisaged in the Recovery and Resilience Plans are not and cannot only be compensation measures and aim to restore a pre-pandemic scenario that already saw us among the last in Europe. We need a change of pace, starting from a real, real wage parity, a more present and effective welfare, so that the best energies of half the population can be released. This is the last call to shape our country at last to measure two, to define a new grammar, which will not only be in investments, but in the construction of a fairer, fairer society, because as we are taught what is happening in some European countries, it is from the public space, from the full civil and political citizenship of women that passes the holding of a rule of law, a country therefore stronger and more democratic for all. I say it with pride: the Senate will monitor the relapse of all these proposals, wanting to adopt a true culture of evaluation that will do good to the country and... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u64	Thank you, Senator, the Presidency allows you to deliver the written text of your speech to be annexed to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u65	[[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u68	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, Minister, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today's is a very important step, and I believe that the work that has been done is an element that can guide in the choices that, in a few days, in a few weeks, will take place in the projects. I would like to say at once that the great work done, for which I thank the two Commissions and the two Presidents, once delivered, cannot then be put aside because I believe that the valuable work - of those who voted in favour and of those who may not vote in favour, but who has made a great contribution - must be the guide through which the projects can be realized. I also say something else, and we must understand this: the Next generation EU is a good, fair response, finally of a Europe of solidarity, to the pandemic crisis, but also - I stress, colleagues - to the environmental crisis. Let us not forget: we are working on this; thanks to the work of this country and also of the previous Government, we have had the resources. What we must give is a response to the serious social crisis that has come to be determined because of the pandemic crisis, but it is also the response to the environmental crisis; it is Europe's response to climate change and it is the great challenge of the future. More than the fourth industrial revolution, I want to see young people live, work and have a different quality of life in a country that has made the leap in quality and ecological conversion. For this reason it is no longer time to travel; it is no longer time for timid steps. This is the time when we all have to take full responsibility in conscience. It is time, yes, for radical choices, meaning with what we must throw our hearts past the obstacle today and we must understand that the resources provided for in the Plan that we are about to deliver to Europe are the opportunity to make, precisely, a real and profound change that is needed in this country. It is not the rhetoric of change; it is the facts. We must quickly recover all the problems, as well as intervene on the structural problems of this country, as many colleagues have said; structural problems that we certainly have been carrying for a long time, and this is certainly a real and strong problem. Let us be clear: talking about growth today generally does not mean anything anymore. Today we must speed up because this is where the possibility of the future starts, the conversion of the production system, of the consumption system and of transport. On the point, Minister Franco was clear, as was Minister Cingolani. In order to do this we must first align ourselves with the European targets, so we need to review the National Integrated Climate Energy Plan (PNIEC) immediately and quickly, because we have targets that we need to achieve for reducing emissions. We must therefore speed up on this. On investment in renewable energy we need a change of pace, an acceleration, so the resources allocated to the Plan are fine, but we also need to understand that we are making a huge bet on this. This also applies to investment. Much has been said about hydrogen: we must proceed together, fast and well. The other principle underlying the Next generation EU, which for this reason has an illuminated system, interweaves together the social crisis and the environmental crisis and establishes the conversion, the transition and then the transverse axis through which we must intervene on the productive system to put it back in motion and on social issues. Of course we must also be very clear about this. Investment is therefore needed for the climate change mitigation plan, so we need to speed up renewables and reduce emissions. Minister, we are a beautiful country: we have - I believe - the highest rate of biodiversity, but we have also ruined it and put it at risk. We've put water, soil, air at risk, so we need to protect, preserve, repair. Resources must therefore be provided for this, because that is where life comes from. If we do not preserve these resources, we will not be able to make the qualitative leap. It is not a different issue, because it has an economic impact, as will climate change if we do not face up to and achieve the objectives. In order to do this, therefore, in order to achieve the green transition, the ecological transition, which is not a gala lunch but a complex thing, we must certainly have skills, but we must make a leap in quality and mentality in order to understand that we must go in that direction and we must also know that there can be social costs. However, since we already have so many employment problems in crisis areas in order to make the conversions, we must know that we must aim for the right transition, so accompany, know, encourage those who can do more and discourage in other cases, but having clear that the social front must always keep it open. The installation of the Next generation EU is illuminated because it also states that every intervention, not only in the mission on green and ecological transition, but also in all the others (so on the Mezzogiorno, on which I will return, on gender equality, on health) must be verified, must not cause environmental damage. Let us remember that the unit of measurement of our projects is that. Certainly to do this, so to have a not partial strategic vision, in which everyone looks at their little bit, we have to build a plan that is not a collage of microprojects or maybe bonus systems or incentives, that serve where they serve. We must have the ability to build a strategic plant that has all the right connections, with a vision of the future, because the units of measurement are those: not microprojects, but projects that can accelerate the transformation. You have rightly said that, fortunately, this is not all there will be. We will have to put in place other resources and other facilities, but they will always have to be consistent with the plan that we are taking now; even those that do not enter this Plan will have to be consistent with its great idea. Let's put it in the head that we will be measured (I don't know how long this legislature will last) in history for this, if we are able to set up a Plan that maybe others will continue to carry on, that has this strategic vision and that has the chance to really change this country. All reforms must be linked to this objective. So, competence, finally, in the public administration. It would be necessary to focus on young people, skills and women, to take this great step forward that would mean revolutionizing our country to the full. Knowing that the horizon in front of us... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u69	His time has run out, Senator De Petris, and he must conclude like everyone else.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u70	[[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u73	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, let me begin by expressing my thanks, as other Members have also done, to all the Members of Parliament and to all the senators who have worked in the Permanent Commissions in recent weeks to achieve this result today. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Dario Stefano and Daniele Pesco, for their hard work. Above all, I would like to add a special thank you to my parliamentary group and to all our senators, because they have worked, in recent weeks, to present proposals to improve the Plan of interventions to be put in place, an extraordinary Plan. So all the interventions that followed, yesterday and today, went in the direction, precisely, to improve the Plan. Unfortunately, since a final resolution and a summary had to be found, since this is not a treaty, so many of these proposals have not been taken into account. I say to the Government here, however, that all the proposals that have come from our benches, in all matters (environment, health, public administration, infrastructure, young people, women, work and even proposals on Roma Capitale), are important. So, we invite the government to take them into due consideration. A year ago, in February 2020, we discovered an enemy we had at home, an invisible, sneaky enemy. It was hard to control. A year ago, we absolutely didn't have a cure, so the pandemic broke out. The year 2020 was a watershed year of our lives, habits and customs. We went from a social life open to isolation and social distance, waiting for science, as it did, with its giant steps, to find the vaccine, which is now indispensable to counter the disease. How much did this year cost us not lived in social and economic terms? It cost us so much. The 109,000 deaths, to date, in our country, in Italy, and almost a million deaths in Europe, have an invaluable value. Less 120 billion consumption compared to 2019; fewer 400,000 businesses, especially in the trade sector; 800,000 fewer jobs, especially women. These are data, they are numbers, but behind every data, every number, every company, every job lost, there are people, there are lives, there are dreams, there are projects on which darkness has fallen in our country. [[Applause]] So the last year's budget is apocalyptic, an exceptional situation that today needs to be addressed with exceptional instruments. That's why we're here today. We are here to examine the proposals contained in the largest plan to relaunch republican history, made possible thanks to the support and sharing of resources and objectives of our common home, which is called Europe. The Next generation EU cannot escape the comparison with the other great previous recovery plan that saw the European continent protagonist after the Second World War, the Marshall Plan. So, it is useful, even today, to compare with the Marshall Plan, because the analogies are not lacking. Both are projects to revive our economy, to restart the economy in particular, in the first case, after the Second World War, with the Marshall Plan, and, in this case, after the pandemic and after the coronavirus, with a Plan able to mobilise large investments in strategic sectors. The recovery fund today gives the green light to a novelty at European level, that is to say to a mutualised expenditure, on a European scale, among all countries. Investment is therefore expected to accelerate, through a mix of non-refundable loans that are balanced only by conditionality, that of structural reforms. The comparison between the two Plans is surprising: in the Marshall Plan, in 1948, Italy received a sum equal to 8.3 percent of the GDP of the time; today the support of the recovery fund is equal to 11.2 percent of the GDP of 2019. It is clear to everyone today what the scope of the project we are about to launch is that it is extraordinary for our country. We have the opportunity to finally give life to all those reforms that are no longer postponed, especially in the interests of the next generations, because the next generations will also be burdened with the debt that we are facing. For the reforms we can no longer wait and it is necessary, even with this Plan, that today - I say this to you Minister and I say this to our President-in-Office - we owe it well. [[Applause]] We have given, like Forza Italia, important contributions. I would just like to mention a few of them, which are present in the report that we will be voting on: the redevelopment of inefficient public expenditure and a timely control of waste; in the field of trade, to promote the acceleration of the digital transition, so that small and medium-sized enterprises are all connected online today, an ultra-fast network. We reiterate the concept of expenditure to be committed - today the rapporteur also asked for more than 34% - for the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Then there is the issue of decontribution for young people to take on. A training plan is also needed, with schools and universities, for young people of the future. For mission 2, a number of non-refundable incentives, including tax incentives, are important for the renewal of the fleet. We need to focus on green mechanization, precision farming, new generation machinery. For decades there has been no infrastructure policy worthy of this name in our country. It is important to connect the whole of Italy with high speed today. [[Applause]] It is important today to improve regional transport, roads and motorways. We need to invest a lot in the infrastructure sector. Finally, but certainly not in terms of importance, there is the issue of the work and self-denial of health workers. We need to invest so much in health care, research, development, new machinery and above all in redesigning hospital care, strengthening the organisational structure of the departments in order to streamline the waiting lists. Therefore, action is also needed on critical area departments, on operating rooms and intensive therapies, stabilising new beds; above all, home care needs to be strengthened, creating a territorial network for integrated health care. This is only part of all the proposals that have been accepted today in the final report, which - as I said - is a summary. But there are, dear Minister, many others that have been discussed here today and yesterday in the general debate in Parliament. I would ask the government to take charge of it and evaluate it, even all together. I start at the end of my speech. At the beginning of my speech I mentioned the Marshall Plan, identifying some aspects of the Plan that we are examining today and making some similarities. But, Minister, I say this here to all my colleagues and to the whole Parliament, I have left out one, just to finish my speech: always, in every situation and in this particular case, when we talk about projects and then we approve, the great difference is made by people. In this case the ruling class does it: the one that came out of the Second World War was able to resurrect Europe and Italy from the rubble and devastation. [[Applause]] It is up to us today, the ruling class at this moment in this country, to take advantage of this great possibility and opportunity: to bring back the economy of our country. A ruling class that respects itself today cannot absolutely lose its credibility and, therefore, has the need to aim straight at the development of our country, the recovery of the economy, the recovery of sociality. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u76	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I was not expected to speak today in an explanation of vote. On this occasion, on behalf of the Lega Group, we send a big hug to Mr Candiani, who has worked so hard on this Plan and I know personally how much he would have wanted to be with us today. [[Applause]] In yesterday's speech I was able to express all my bitterness about this path that should have taken place in a completely different way. I would like to express in this statement all the meaning of my words yesterday. Many, recently, have wondered why the League has joined this new government. The answer is also in what we are doing today. After having seen so many billions thrown away, almost 162, as Senator Briziarelli and other colleagues remembered (but I also remembered it), which we experienced on our skin as spectators outside the government, we could not allow once again that the country was penalized by this management. We could not and cannot allow, once again, after a year of pandemics, that this great opportunity which has been granted to us should be wasted. We felt obliged to intervene: we wanted, with our decision, to give a strong shock to the political choices, which were now flat for months. Otherwise this sad story, made of waste, would have been repeated again. [[Applause]] Also for this reason we entered the Government; not for the good of the League, a party to which we have given and will always give our heart, but for the future of our children and for the whole of Italy, from North to South. Of course, it would have been easier to stay out of it, criticize without an alternative and watch the country sink. And then what would be left in a few years? A police country, such as Greece, where perhaps only the flag remained in Greece. [[Applause]] The recovery fund is also this: it is a commitment, a great challenge that will never be repeated again, the challenge that everyone has called and calls the new Marshall Plan. What we are doing today is simply what we say "putting our face" and, given the times that run, is not a thing for everyone. Not only are we putting our faces on, but also our hearts and so much courage. We spent the night discussing words, phrases, lines, passages that upset and upset the meaning of the report produced by the Commissions. We have taken up the northern issue, highlighting its great strategic importance; we have taken up the issue of the Centre, too often forgotten, and we have never neglected the importance of a serious and tangible relaunch that the South has been waiting for for too many years. We have put the great works back at the center of the speech: the railways, the roads. Above all we decided to bring to the Senate and share a historical battle of the League: the revision of that turtle, all Italian, which slows down everything touches, which is the code of procurement. [[Applause]] We have not even spared ourselves on the environment, on the green, on the ecological transition, on the electric, on the use of green hydrogen and of blue hydrogen, on renewable sources; we have always done so using criteria and without ideologies. This is the League, this is us: the good of citizens always before everything. We have never missed our constructive support for a work that we took in the second line, entered only in the race in this Plan as a new majority force. Yet, despite the strong tensions, which the Presidents of the Commission - whom I thank - have skillfully calmed down, today we have a shared relationship, for the good of the country and the Italians. [[Applause]] In my speech yesterday I said that I felt this commitment as a form of respect for those who lost everything, relatives, friends, work. Today I feel like adding that we owe this commitment to the Italians at home, who are waiting to start again, to reopen their shops, to reopen their restaurants, the gymnasiums. There is no more time to waste, there is no more time to waste in palace games. [[Applause]] Our duty is to give answers and put only the good of our people at the heart of the political agenda. This sad pandemic seems not to end anymore; every day we find ourselves fighting against it and trying to give answers. The problem is that sometimes it is also difficult to give answers. Our duty is to spend all the energy remaining, after more than a year, to ensure that the country starts again with enthusiasm and determination, as soon as we can reopen everything. For all these reasons, the League will vote in favour of the majority motion for a resolution, with the certainty that the Government will take into account the guidelines shared by all. I want to close with a quote from Don Luigi Sturzo, who has always liked me: "Freedom is like air: you live in the air; if the air is spoiled, you suffer; if the air is insufficient, you suffocate, if the air is missing you die." Let's give this country air and oxygen and get it reborn. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u77	I believe that I interpret the sentiment of the whole House in bringing Senator Candiani our best wishes. Happy birthday. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u80	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, Minister Franco, Government, colleagues, we have lived for years as if we had infinite resources at our disposal. We lived thinking exclusively of the present, without remembering the past and without wanting or knowing how to imagine the future. And in this present moment our only goal was production, a production that had to grow from year to year. 80% of what we produce, however, becomes waste and so we have put entire ecosystems at risk, the survival of animal and plant species; we have favoured the spread of diseases such as zoonoses, of which Covid is part, and therefore the nightmare that we have been living for a year to this side is a consequence of our way of life. Our planet, our good planet, is in danger; there is no more time to waste. We have a remedy: the key to this must be the ecological transition [[Applause]] , which should not be seen as a cherry to add to the cake, in the end and if there is time. To implement the ecological transition we have an extraordinary tool: the more than 200 billion euros entrusted to Italy thanks to the immense work of President Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause]] Thanks to these funds the ecological transition can become the cake. But we must have the courage to undertake reforms that are real evidence to build Italy in 2050, starting from the environment, which is our first star and must be the star of all. In the resolution we drafted, we called for more research and development funds for the circular economy, for more urban forestry projects, for university and post-graduate courses in ecological transition. We also want to strengthen the balance of health and environment that is fundamental to us: there is no health in a sick world. To strengthen this track we must first work on the connection of data between the health system and the collection of environmental data; only in this way will we be able to implement prevention, which is still the most powerful weapon we have to defeat diseases, understood not only as primary prevention (correct lifestyles), but above all as secondary prevention (premature diagnosis). In Italy, adherence to cancer screening is still too low and needs to be strengthened, just as investments must be stepped up to ensure that there are neonatal screening for genetic and metabolic diseases, starting from that very important law wanted by our vice president Taverna. [[Applause]] At the heart of the health that we imagine, of this revolution of services to people, we place, however, the territory, the territorial medicine, which was also the weak link in the management of the pandemic. Strengthening the territory means using telemedicine tools, building homes and community hospitals that have to filter large nosocomi. Up to now we have concentrated all the care in the hospital, even for chronic and cancer patients. I still remember with extreme sadness the story of one of my dearest friends who had to go to the hospital in Pozzuoli for chemotherapy every twenty days. He told me how return trips after therapy could last even hours because he had to stop constantly for the vomit count induced by therapy. Strengthening the territory means no longer subjecting patients to the stress of the journey, of having to leave their home, means putting the person at the centre. [[Applause]] In this pandemic we have also touched with hand that the same right of access to treatment is not guaranteed throughout the national territory. That is why we are calling for a review of Title V, giving more power of direction to the Central State. [[Applause]] The Regions must be the implementing bodies, but they must not be able to derogate from those that are the provisions that come from the Government. We note territorial differences in many areas, from infrastructure, transport, services to people; that is why an important part of the funds is addressed precisely to territorial cohesion. Italy cannot leave unless the Mezzogiorno starts again. [[Applause]] The Mezzogiorno must start again from the exploitation of human resources. Today, young people in the South must emigrate by necessity and not by choice. I'm just an example of doctorates; to form a doctorate Italy spends 400,000 euros, but only one in three of the doctorates we form can stay in our country, especially if it comes from the Southern Regions. This means that we are giving our investments to other states, we are making investments to lose. Enhancing human capital means enabling women, especially in the South, to better reconcile family life and working life. That is why we are calling for full time to be extended to primary and secondary schools throughout the national territory. [[Applause]] and we ask to build more kindergartens. In Europe 33% of children attend a kindergarten. In Italy, only the North-East reaches this value, while the South and the islands are at a standstill of 12%. This is something that must be clearly healed. I still note that 40 billion of the funds allocated in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan are directed to digitisation and technological innovation, which means not only using more innovative technologies, but also reorganising processes to offer better services to citizens. [[Applause]] Then we present our new vision of enterprise with extraordinary and revolutionary measures such as ecobonus 110%. [[Applause]] And again the superbonus, which we want to extend to 2023, which has allowed many companies to restart after the stop related to the pandemic [[Applause]] and that has allowed many of our citizens to be able to renovate their homes, to transform them in an environmentally sustainable way. Finally, I would like to focus on education and research, two issues that are very close to our heart. School and study must be a right of all and not a privilege of a few. [[Applause]] That is why we are strengthening the right to study by raising the ISEE threshold below which tuition fees are not paid from EUR 13,000 to EUR 23,500. This means that we will allow all deserving students who come from families not particularly advantaged to be able to undertake courses of university studies, to realize their dream, to make use of their talents. [[Applause]] Finally, research. Today Italy is at 27th place in the OECD area for investment in research and development, with only 1.4% of GDP devoted to these sectors, of which only 0.5% comes from public investment. Yet we are in eighth place in terms of productivity. That means we have some excellences that we don't know how to value. Mr Franco, in announcing the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars to the motion for a majority resolution, I would like to reiterate that today we are laying the foundations of the future, of a Italy of the future that is more competitive, that conquers the centre of the European stage. It is necessary to start from the ecological transition to build Italy in 2050. St. Francis said to start from what is necessary, to do what is possible and then find himself to realize the impossible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u82	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u83	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Madam President, we who disagree have three minutes, while you, who all agree, have had hours to tell each other how good you are. In this disproportion there is the measure of your little democracy, but we at The Alternative there is in these three minutes we will be able to tell you what you are doing and what we should have done in the interest of the country. As for what you are doing, today you approve a report of ninety smoky pages that do not tell the government at all how to spend the money of the Plan, and in fact hand over a blank delegation to the Government of banks, elites and supranational interests. What instead should we have done in the interest of the country? In view of the scarcity of resources, Parliament should have taken responsibility and the courage of the choices; it should have graduated the priorities of the Government and said no to the great useless works, to the cathedrals in the desert like the bridge on the Strait of Messina; yes to the safety, the energy efficiency and the optimization of the existing infrastructures; yes to the strengthening of the public school and public health and not the private ones; yes to the aid to the small entrepreneurs, the traders and the craftsmen; no to the gifts to the large groups of companies; yes to the recruitment of young people in the public administration; no to the millionaire advice to external societies; yes to the entry of the State into strategic sectors of the economy such as steel or pharmaceutical and to the realization of a public bank for investments. But there is no trace of all this in your hollow and verbous report, and the little there is is watered down among hundreds of petitions of principle that have been placed in bulk and contrast with each other. On those grounds The alternative is, on whose recognition as a component you, Mr Casellati - who is speaking and is not listening to me - and you, members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, are doubly unfulfilled, will vote against the motion for a majority resolution and will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution No 2, which we have tabled and which, of course, this servile majority will reject, but which will give the country a signal as a beacon in the night, and will ensure that in this Parliament's simulacrum, faced with the rising tide of type approval, there is a core of opposition and resistance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u85	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u86	MAGORNO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, there are two aspects that have emerged from the comparison between the mayors who are members of the South recovery network on which I want to put the emphasis and which lead me to announce my abstention on their behalf too. The first concerns the answers to be given to citizens immediately. It is clear that the recovery funds, while representing a potential breakthrough, do not have immediate implications. That is why we call for concrete action that can give breath and confidence to the many citizens who have been standing still for too long because of the crisis. The second aspect is that the lines we are discussing are still too general. As already stated by the Chamber of Deputies, in the V Commission's report, recovery must be destined and used in order to achieve the social, economic and territorial cohesion of our country, even in accordance with Article 117 of the Constitution. The South recovery network has therefore called for the funds of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan to be redistributed according to the criteria on which they were allocated by Europe: population, GDP per capita, unemployment rate. According to these parameters, at least 60% of the resources of the recovery plan should go to the South. We appreciate the attention of Mr Carfagna, who has received and listened to a delegation of ours. We thank the Undersecretary Nesci who listened to us and we are happy to have had the availability of a meeting also by Minister Bonetti. The mayors of the South recovery network, however, to have confidence in the Government, await concrete measures and are ready to mobilize to ask for the South to be given what is due to the South. While waiting to assess the substance of the measures to be taken by the Commission, I reiterate my desire to abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u88	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u89	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, nature exults. Parliament, thanks to the Senate Environment Commission, has managed to ensure that a very important part of biodiversity and the sea is included in the majority motion for a resolution. And this is also and especially thanks to me, that I've been fighting for years. Environmental associations and the world of scientific research are talking to the Government and are calling for Parliament's commitments to be met and therefore for the Government to use the first pillar, that of green transition, including biodiversity, as the most important part, as Italy is the 'hotspot of biodiversity in the world. You have spoken of climate change and this issue is present in the majority motion for a resolution, but I personally will abstain from voting on it because I will wait for the Government's answers, which will have to be consistent with taxonomy and the principle of do no significant harm and therefore with the six environmental objectives. Italy deserves it, the transition must be sustainable and green, but it really must be. For this reason, I am waiting for the government to play its part and include the theme of the sea: if we talk about climate change, we have to talk about the sea and the blue economy. The government has rejected my motion for a resolution, but I would ask that it be voted on separately, disabling the part of the commitments from the premises, possibly recovering at least the part of the premise, which is in line with what Europe says and is contained in the recovery, because that is what we want. To vote against this part of the motion for a resolution means to say no to what Europe says. For now, therefore, I will abstain from voting and see if the Government will be able and able to bring a credible project to Europe as Europe demands.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u91	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u92	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, as I said in the course of the debate, the ecological transition cannot be a brand that must be put only in the premises and in the titles, as it must be assessed in the actions. Although he worked with Senator La Mura to include the issue of biodiversity, absent in the Government's assessment and also in the majority report of the Land Commission, the environment, environmental goods, in fact there was not the courage to take positions appropriate to the objectives. We all know that Europe's climate targets are ambitious. There was talk of 60 percent less CO2 emissions than in the past century. We have reached 55%, which is still a very ambitious target. We must keep ourselves under one and a half degrees for the strengthened commitments made in Paris. However, with the commitments that Parliament asks the Government to assume, we will never get there, because it was extremely cautious in defining the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan (PNIEC). It has not been made clear that we cannot make the energy transition with gas and reach 2030 with 65% hydrocarbons. It has not been said that we need a moratorium on capacity market. It has not been said at all that blue hydrogen has been rejected by Europe and has asked for investment in that sector which, incidentally, is established should not affect investment in green hydrogen. As Mr Cingolani rightly said, when you invest in one direction, you risk losing not only investment, but also time and causing erotic damage. And since CO2 capture investments have already been considered absolutely bankrupt by the European Court of Auditors, we could not ask the government to invest in that direction again. I would like to thank my colleagues in the European Union's budget and policy committees for their comments and... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u94	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u95	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, a fact is the most stubborn thing in the world, Bulgakov wrote, and since the language can hide the truth, but the eyes never, let us reveal your deception. The Brussels money has a double deception: the first of which is given by the stringent European conditionality, since we will have to follow a precise road map. The second deception is that all the money that comes to us will have to be returned, even those so-called lost funds. In short, as a mother, Europe has absolutely nothing, despite the recovery being attributed a catarctic and consoler function, a shampoo. The PNRR is a good thing, like the mom who strokes your head when you're sad and tired, a huge mom, a white mom. And then rinse, rinse; a rinsed green and environmentalist, in the name of the eco-sustainability aimed at a shift towards the electric and hydrogen. You say Alitalia's gonna get a lot of money to spend. Of course, money to be spent in debt to favor the economies of others: Germans and Chinese in the lead because they will be the ones to sell us the electric. Summary: to us the debts of the loans, to others the profits. But the ecological shampoo must go on and be pushed. Some people think it's best that without camphor, even if the best are the most expensive because they are anti dandruff. Foam is a sacred thing that cleanses the petty, crushed and oppressed person. In fact, cleaned up, we send it on scooters, which are the object that most impacts on CO2 emissions from production to disposal. We are buying Chinese objects that are very harmful to the environment, from very short life, in the name of ecological shampoo. What about green ports? Europe, with a letter from the usual Vestager, wants to privatise Italian ports, but does not see the environmental dumping of Holland. Perhaps you do not know how much they pollute the thousands of cargo ships that arrive in Rotterdam, even full of counterfeit goods from China. But I'm washing, I'm washing. By the way, in all this watering, is there anything left to lower the bills? If, in fact, clean energy consumption, then why do I have to pay the system charges? We have the most expensive bills in Europe, but what does it matter? Sciacquo, racquo and then... hair dryer! Gaber was right: "With all the freedoms you have, do you also want to have the freedom to think?" You'd better not, otherwise you'd find out the truth.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u98	LANNUTTI (Mixed). Mr President, the times of politics do not coincide with the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises, commercial activities, bars, hotels and restaurants and with the conditions worsened by the pandemic tragedy for families. We've had over 800,000 more unemployed. According to the Observatory on the balance sheets of accountants, out of 830,000 companies, which bill 2,700 billion euros, in the first half of 2021 we had a loss of about 280 billion euros. Public debt reached 2,603 billion euros in January, with an increase of 33.9 billion euros, while tax and contribution revenues decreased by 46 billion euros. Between March 2020 and January 2021, against financing to companies, assisted by public guarantees of about 140 billion euros, the flow of loans to enterprises was more than 420 billion euros and the net flow of almost 70 billion euros. GDP has suffered an annual loss of 8.3 percent. According to the Cerved Observatory, about one third of the small and medium-sized enterprises that represent the backbone of a country that is the second European manufacture, risk not reopening its doors, with the addition of the neoliberal recipe released from the G30, according to which to beat the pandemic it is necessary to apply Darwinism in economy, leaving to their destiny the zombie enterprises, especially the small ones, thus contributing to the desertification of the cities. In this disastrous situation for the public accounts, Easter prevents the movement between the Italian Regions, offering the possibility of going on holiday abroad, offering a glowing opportunity to increase tourism to our direct competitors, while our bathing establishments and hoteliers close their doors. To offer the possibility of survival to many economic activities, hotels and tourism requires a moratorium of fifteen or twenty years on loans contracted with banks, which cannot be honored with forced closures, being derisory contributions on the annual losses of the decree support, amounting to a maximum of 6 or 7 percent. In conclusion, Madam President, we are a country of ants: we need to think of irremissible bonds, perpetual non-redemptive bonds at the rate of 2%, and this would be a good opportunity for our country. That is why I shall abstain on the motions for resolutions before us.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u99	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. Senator La Mura, signatory to motion for a resolution No 1, requested that this resolution be voted on separately, first voting on the part of the premises and then on the part of the commitments to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u102	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, the proposal is to vote by separate parties first on the part of the premises and the recitals and then on the part of the commitments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u103	I confirm that, Senator La Mura. The proposal is to vote for separate parties the whole first part and then the commitments to the Government. I put to the vote the request for a split vote on motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator La Mura. It's not approved. I call on Senator La Mura and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, De Petris, Malpezzi, Pharaoh and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senators Ciriani and Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Calandrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senators Candiani, Bossi Simone, Stefano, Pesco, Casolati, Lorefice, Manca, Nannicini, Ginetti, Steger, Damiani, Dell'Olio, Giammanco and Errani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2, presented by Senators Ferrari, Santangelo, Ferrero, Malan, Errani, Sbrollini and Bressa. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The vote on the documents on the agenda shall be taken at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u106	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister for his relations with Parliament for his presence. If there is a common feature to the Count-I Government and the Count-II Government, it is the absolute indifference of Parliament's activity: hundreds of parliamentary questions await a response. We hope that this new government will establish a reversal of the trend. In the meantime, apart from the dozens of questions I have asked, I would like to ask for a reply to questions 4-04773 and 4-04565, which I would like to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u109	ANGRISANI (Mixed). Mr President, tomorrow, 2 April, we are celebrating the World Day of Autism Awareness, which represents a very important moment of meditation and reflection. The most recent legislation on autistic spectrum disorders has made considerable progress, together with an increasingly aware public opinion of the pitfalls and complexities associated with this type of disorder. The approval of Law No 134 of 2015, the establishment of specially dedicated state funds and the inclusion in the LEA of the public delivery of the performance of early diagnosis, treatment and treatment, with the use of methods and tools based on the most advanced scientific evidence, certainly constitute a good port point. However, since more than a year, the pandemic context has revolutionized the everyday life of those suffering from autistic spectrum disorders, often aggravating situations based on a very precarious balance. The emergency from Covid has deeply affected the status of every human being, but it has affected even more deeply the consciousness of the most fragile people and their families. The 2020 lockdown and containment measures taken to counter the Covid did not allow children with autistic spectrum disorders to find those moments of sociality and leisure that are indispensable for everyone. We therefore have a moral and social duty to help even more those who have experienced enormous difficulties in a historical moment that has brought the whole country to its knees. At this moment when we see a light at the end of the tunnel I also want to send a message of hope, because many civil society initiatives promote inclusion, especially in such a bad time. In the Province of Salerno, numerous projects based on increased and alternative communication are being developed, with the aim of helping those who have difficulties in using the most common oral and written communication channels. An association in particular, "Together you can Sarno" is promoting the use of the CAA menu, a tool of social inclusion thanks to which the menu of a restaurant or ice cream shop becomes accessible also to a boy or girl suffering from autistic spectrum disorders. It is a truly commendable initiative at this historic moment when those suffering from autistic disorders may have a greater impact on the stress caused by the application of measures against the pandemic. With the budget law for 2021, the resources of the autism fund have increased by 50 million euros, also defining the percentage breakdown for individual interventions. Without prejudice to what has been good done so far, I think it is most appropriate to increase the resources of the Fund further. Already from the exam... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u112	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the fourteenth World Day of Autism Awareness, established to draw attention to the rights of people with autistic spectrum syndrome and to the difficult problems of their families, that is, those who live and live with that reality every day, I want to give the example of those who try to face with daily commitment and with a deep spirit of solidarity all the profound aspects, even social ones, of this disability. In Arzano, a Neapolitan municipality, a reality was born for minors and autistic adults, a real oasis of solidarity and sharing for people in whom - as we know - the predominant aspect of their disability is represented by the closure towards the outside world. The structure was born thanks to the stubbornness and courage of Antonio, father of a child with autistic spectrum, who abandoned his entrepreneurial activity, converting his working structure into a multifunctional centre for disabled children, where he hosts the association "We can" ONLUS. In the center, children and boys learn to carry out various manual activities, such as making pizza, or games and sports activities with multiple engagements, in order to involve them fully, stimulate their participation, try to break that grey wall that isolate them and seem to separate them and distance them from others. It is the suffered and participated attempt of those who are at the forefront, of those who live in the first person all the difficulties and complex problems of the management of those children and touches with their hands every day the negative consequences of the bad organization - even more in these moments of pandemic health emergency - of the structures that should take charge of subjects who are difficult to communicate or to relate verbally, but do so with sounds and gestures. Well, in this reality where the game and the recovery activities continue every day in a delicate balance, Antonio's son and many other children have found the smile following and implementing a difficult rehabilitation program. It's about doing something for your child and also for the many kids like him, creating a real opportunity for them, sport and play as a means of social integration; stimulating all sensory activities, involving them in a rehabilitation path in which the spirit of solidarity and support of families often left alone offer opportunities with a deep human and social meaning. Autism is not contagious, ignorance is. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u115	COLTORTI (M5S). Mr President, peculate, concussion, corruption, abuse of office and misuse of public functions are some of the most frequently committed crimes in our country that cause serious malfunctions of the administrative apparatus. The economic costs of corruption are considerable, so much so as to result in a serious loss of competitiveness of the country and dangerous consequences on the state budget. Since January 2021, 164 people have been investigated for corruption, that is 2.5 per day, while the Mafia accused, who often intertwine his business with public bodies, are 503, almost eight per day, with a wealth of assets confiscated from the mafia equal to 973 million euros in total since the beginning of the year. The latest report published by Libera on the state of implementation of the law on property confiscated from the mafia unfortunately reveals that, out of 1,076 municipalities monitored recipients of seized real estate, as many as 670, equal to 62% of the total, do not publish the list on their website, as required by law. The negative record is due to the South, with 392 unfulfilled municipalities; it follows North Italy with 213 municipalities and the Centre with 65. At regional level the most virtuous are the Basilicata with 60 percent of the municipalities that publish the list; the Marches with 60 percent; Emilia-Romagna and Liguria with 50 percent; Lazio with 49 percent. Less transparent regions include Umbria, where only 14% of the municipalities publish the list; Trentino-Alto Adige with 25%; Abruzzo with 23%; Tuscany and Veneto with 31%; Lombardy and Campania with 34%. Taking into account that the publication of such lists would be mandatory by law and would allow citizens to submit a request for the re-use for social purposes of such a large amount of assets; also considering that the non-compliance by the local administrations responsible for the confiscated property assigned to them has the taste of omission, if not of connivance, we will ask the Minister what actions he intends to put in place in order to strengthen and make effective controls on the transparency of the work of the public administration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u118	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would also like to say to this House that the industrial settlements of Basilicata are not affected, but are protected. [[Applause]] Let me give you two examples that are current and fast. Tfa (former Firema) of Tito: 35 employees, committed in abundance in the maintenance of the engines and trains. Yet, the property would like to move workers and production into Caserta's. It is a hypothesis that does not exist for us, absolutely. We demand that the number of employees be brought to 70-80, to give stability to this very important factory. The other example is Stellantis of Melfi, already FCA, already Fiat: 7,172 direct employees, 4.505 of the induced. We learn, in these sad and difficult days, that, from April 2nd to 12th, there will be the integration fund. We learn that expenses have been drastically cut for services, canteen, heating, technical and civil cleaning and that already this cut has involved several layoffs. We learn that it would be the company's will to close a line, opened only two years ago, where Jeep Compass was produced. We learn, but we would like the company to speak, that it is silent and that it is not respecting the workers. So tell the workers what your intentions are, but above all make sure that you keep all the commitments you made a few years ago. Melfi's Stellantis has been and must remain a spearhead in the automotive industry. I'm sure Region and Government will play their part. The company and the property do the same to ensure stability to the factory, serenity to the workers and perspective to that important territory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u121	ORTIS (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to speak on the recent decree of the Director-General for Public Security and Chief of Police, which has ordered the abolition of the Campobasso railway police post. This abolition represents yet another act of impoverishment of a territory that, in recent years, has already paid duty, all too abundantly, in terms of cuts of services and garrisons, by all the governments that have succeeded in driving the country. This measure - as evidenced in recent months, also from the union parts - comes from a chronic lack of police personnel, to which should be answered with a contribution of new levers, even greater than what is being guaranteed today, and certainly not with a suppression of police offices, with relative prejudice of the safety of the citizens. The Polfer office, which is scheduled to be closed, has competence over almost all the railway network of the Molise region, including the Province of Isernia. Precisely the previous closure of the place Polfer of Isernia favored the birth of microcriminality, with episodes of theft, removal of copper, delinquency, drug dealing, prostitution, violence and degradation. And we are talking about Isernia, one of the quietest cities in Italy, which has changed the standard of living of its inhabitants. Obviously, it was not intended to take advantage of what happened in the province of Pentra and it was decided to condemn even the campobassani to the degradation of its city centre. The call, therefore, is to review this decision immediately, which, moreover, does not entail any economic savings for the state's coffers. In fact, the premises where the railway police station of Campobasso is located are owned by the State Railways, as well as what rotates within the structure used by the railway police. Economically, therefore, the cut is zero. The abolition of the railway garrison is yet another defeat to the detriment of a peripheral territory that is evidently considered, erroneously, less at risk than others. However, we cannot afford to endanger the safety of travellers and railway networks in general. Therefore, I strongly ask the Government, the Minister of the Interior and the new Chief of Police to return to the decision. Molise and Molise deserve respect and, as long as the Molise Region exists, the State cannot and must not abandon it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-01-LEG18-Senato-sed-310.ana.u123	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 6 April, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is adjourned (14 p.m.).
