ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I would like to address a heartfelt thought of closeness and condolence to the family, colleagues and friends of Mr Guglielmo Epifani. Unionist, political, man of the institutions, William Epifani was one of the most authoritative figures of the Democratic Left of our time. Intellectual and refined, he had graduated in philosophy with a thesis on Anna Kuliscioff, founder and among the main representatives of the Italian Socialist Party. An idea, the socialist one, to which Guglielmo Epifani has always remained faithful and which has inspired every important step of his life, beginning with the union commitment, always lived in the front line within the Italian General Confederation of Labour (CGIL). A tireless commitment, made of passionate dedication and sincere attention to the needs of the workers. Gifts that quickly led him to assume increasingly important roles in the Confederal Secretariat of the CGIL and to become its Secretary-General in 2002. For many years, Guglielmo Epifani, the leader of the first Italian union, has been a strong and courageous voice of workers' rights. A dialogue but combative trade unionist, kind but tenacious and determined. An innovator, also a supporter of radical reforms in the world of work and a strong promoter of the affirmation of women at the top of the trade union world. His was a thoughtful and reformist syndicalism, aimed at the stubborn search for a mediation that could unite, through constructive confrontation, the positions even more divergent and contrasting. Values that also characterized his parliamentary commitment, started in 2013 with the election to the Chamber of Deputies among the ranks of the Democratic Party, of which he was also regent secretary, and continued in this legislature, always in the Chamber, as a representative of the Parliamentary Group of Free and Equal. Politician of extraordinary ethical and human depth, William Epifani was able to interpret, with great professional rigour and autonomy of thought, the constitutional value of labour law. As President of the Commission, the Chamber's productive activities, trade and tourism in the last legislature gained the esteem and admiration of all for the impartiality, the firm respect of the institutions, great technical skills and constant attention to the demands of every political party. The news of his disappearance was a source of deep sorrow. With Guglielmo Epifani, Italian politics remains an orphan of an honest and loyal gentleman, of an intelligent protagonist of many battles at the tables of conciliation, in the squares and in the House of Parliament. An authentic and charismatic leader, who made democratic participation the distinctive feature of his social commitment alongside the workers. In memory of William Epifani, therefore, I invite the Senate Chamber to observe a minute of emotional silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u7	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have known William well. Many years ago we called him Comrade Ford. Not Henry Ford, though, but Harrison Ford. This is because he was intellectually very prepared. He looked more like Bruno Trentin than Di Vittorio, he was always the one in a tie and he was of a certain refinement. So, it represented a CGIL with which we were very in tune. He was an intransigent reformist. Intransigent because he has kept a thread in the course of his life and, although he has made different choices, he has always remained very loyal to his initial tradition. I am pleased that today a dear old friend Roberto Speranza, who shared with him the last part of his life, sits among the benches of the government. You, Mr President, have mentioned your degree thesis and your path within another community parallel to that of the parties. In fact, the CGIL and the other unions then represent, in the end, families from which one never departs. William belonged to this double family; it was a story of Italian reformist socialism. In the eighties Epifani serenely married the cause of the measure on the escalator, while living within an organization that was deeply divided on that choice. By maintaining a path of autonomy and great loyalty, he managed to reach a position that had no longer been reached by those who came from this culture since pre-war times, when the CGIL suffered, like all other free organizations, what happened after 1925-1926 because of the prevailing fascism. I like to remember that he is always chosen in particular moments, because he becomes the number one of the CGIL in the years in which the center-right, led by the Pole of Freedoms and Berlusconi, wins the elections very well. We then have the image of Italy as a country in the condition of turning the world and Europe upside down, therefore a kind of happy Italy. William also leads the final part of this path, which sees the crisis explode in the United States in 2007-2008 and the terrible earthquake of L'Aquila. He will leave, for the first time, the delivery in the largest Italian trade union organization (you have already mentioned this, Mr President, and I stress this) to a woman, Susanna Camusso, who comes from a tradition not far from hers. He is also called to commit himself to the political front and not because, as I have sometimes read, he was a man constantly seeking compromise. It is not so; he was a balanced man. When he is called to lead the Democratic Party, after the "defeated" (I use quotes, although defeated was) of Italy well Common in 2013, he accepts to try to sew up a mosaic that had gone completely to pieces and partly succeeded. Epifani then made another choice, founding a new movement. In conclusion, I always like to remember him by keeping at the centre two values that have marked his life: a special attention to those who remain behind and, as he demonstrated in his latest experience as a trade unionist, to safety in the world of work. This was an issue that he had intuitioned and that, unfortunately, he was right (I say unfortunately because accidents in the world of work in Italy have not decreased at all). A strong hug to William. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u10	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, I would like to express my sincere sympathy with your words of condolence and with the expression of esteem and affection for a certainly extraordinary figure in Italian politics, as Guglielmo Epifani has been. Classical studies and a degree in philosophy - you mentioned it just now - with a thesis on Anna Kuliscioff, founder of the Italian Workers' Party, then Italian Socialist Party. A woman of great culture, doctor and researcher, Anna Kuliscioff contributed to the discovery and study of the causes of puerperal fever and fought for universal suffrage, even if she did not succeed. I believe that Guglielmo Epifani, from these studies, has decided from a young age on which side to stand: on the side of workers and social justice. This was the figure of his commitment to a lifetime. Of course, many times we have not shared his ideas, his opinions, the part on which he has sided and for which he loyally, with great sincerity and great pragmatism, always fought. He was therefore for us an opponent to respect, whose ideas always deserved a confrontation, a deepening and a challenge for us who had a different vision from his. This is the nobility of politics that must always have as a point of reference the common good. Here, Guglielmo Epifani, as an opponent, contributed in the political dialectic to the common good, to the growth of our society and above all to the growth of the rights of the weakest and the workers, witnessing, often with choices that were not in line with its political part, its sincerity and its intellectual honesty. For these reasons, Mr President, colleagues, friends of this House, we sincerely and deeply associate ourselves with mourning because it is not only a political part that has lost one of its leaders, but it is politics as a whole and Italy as a whole that has lost an exponent that we would still need so much at these difficult times. Its competence in economic matters was certainly a useful competence and it, accompanied by its balance and pragmatism, could certainly still bear important fruit for the Italian people at this difficult time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u13	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, on the day that dear Guglielmo Epifani disappeared, I was at the seat of the party, there was the secretary of our party Enrico Letta and other members of the secretariat and of the unions. We were at the table with them and Maurizio Landini gave us the news. That moment was for us the image of everything that had represented the world of William Epifani; the union and politics in the seat of a party of which he had also been secretary in 2013, a very difficult time for the Democratic Party. The transition phase, at an extremely delicate time, had been entrusted to him also for his characteristics: great integrity, intellectual honesty and incredible ability to dialogue and listen. Epifani was able to hold together, in his firmness - because he was a firm person - he could unite and be strong without ever raising his voice. As you also recalled, President, Epifani had the great merit of supporting in fact the battles of women; he had elected after himself the first secretary general of the CGIL, Susanna Camusso. It has also always paid great attention to the subject of Europe, and it has never been isolated. As President Mattarella recalled in his message of mourning, Epifani had a reformist vision always attentive in all areas, from union to politics, with respect to the interests of the workers. It was also recalled at the time of the civil remembrance that one of his last public interventions was right alongside the workers of Whirlpool, asking the government to put heart and resources in it. For him, the words he had repeated several times were always valid: that sense of rights, responsibilities and values must be given back to work. He has always tried to do so in his history as a trade unionist and politician with a civil loyalty and passion that everyone, including his opponents, has always recognized. There is also a part of his youthful commitment that I like to remember, towards the most fragile children and poor families. For the first he did free repetitions, for the second assistance to the elderly; an empathy and generosity that tell so much about man and the reasons why many already miss him. He did not need to be noticed, to show his muscles; he wanted to be useful and wanted to achieve goals without breaking. I was very impressed by a phrase with which Sergio Soave commented on his story on "Il Foglio": Epifani wanted to convince, not win. So it was a win with, holding together right in the name of a unity, because, when you win together, you are stronger. "Everything depends on the health and safety of people: the state of the present, the possibility of planning the future, economic interests, their dignity, their freedom, their work, the system of relationships." Epifani said so on the occasion of the question time with Prime Minister Mario Draghi on May 12th; an intervention in which he asked the Premier to help us all win this cultural battle and this challenge of awareness, because it is one of the symptoms of civilization and democracy of the work of a country. I want to remember him with the words with which he remembered Massimo D'Antona. These are the ones that really come to mind to commemorate him in this House, to commemorate his greatness: It remains the memory, but, even more than memory, it must remain (...) the good example that it gave to our country, the institutions and the community. All our closeness to the family, brother and friends of LEU and also Article One. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u16	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, it is with difficulty and emotion that I take the floor to remind Guglielmo Epifani, a person who has been a friend to me; for the world of work, for the union and for the left an indispensable reference. Also from here I want to send a hug to the wife Giusi, to the brother and to all the family. From the many testimonies about him in these days have emerged the qualities that have distinguished him, from the opponents, colleagues and comrades. They rightly recognized his cultural, intellectual, political and moral depth. They are difficult to find together in a person and were those who made him a great trade union and political leader. Here, a leader, the right idea of the leader. Epifani's life was dedicated to the cause of work, until the end; his last political act was to be with the workers of Whirlpool. Needless to retrace his curriculum, which we all know: socialist, reformist, trade unionist, secretary of the CGIL, deputy and secretary of the PD, then the engagement in Article One and in the list of LEU, with which he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies. For William socialism has always been a fundamental point of reference, not an element delivered to the past, not an element delivered to a finite history, but a system of values and ideas deeply rooted in his way of thinking and acting. These are the words with which he recalled the centenary of the CGIL in 2006: We have not lived and spent this story to return to the inequalities of the time of the origins. (...) We will work to ensure that the future has the heart and strength of this history, which is the history of the country, renewing and reforming it, accepting the challenges, as we have always done. That is the central point. The world changes and changes the conditions of work, of production, but what remains fundamental is the fight against injustice, to assert rights, to affirm the value of work first of all as an idea of dignity. Guglielmo knew which side he was on and knew how to stay there even when he wasn't comfortable. This is the true meaning of the word "reformista", which is not a synonym of moderateism; indeed, to be reformist we must know how to be radical. Reformism is the ability to plunge into reality the ideas of emancipation of the excluded, to stand on the side of the marginalized, to see the world with their eyes. Epifani was a reformist because he knew which side he was on. [[Applause.]] The kindness and correctness that characterized him were united with a conviction in his own ideals, such as to make him always available to dialogue, but firm, determined in his own convictions; of that healthy firmness that unites the sense of measure and radicality. A firmness and a determination that allowed him never to be conservative. He was well aware of the great transformations of our society, starting from the fragmentation of the world of work, and he was aware that the left of government, in order to perform a function for the country, has the difficult task of interpreting change, finding the ability to represent, to look forward without ever giving up social justice. He was a man of the institutions who always believed, to the full, the value of democracy and respect for its places and its forms, understanding that, without these, democracy is an empty word. He was rational and passionate about merit, opponent of disintermediation, of the shortcuts of communication, of demagogy. Colleagues and colleagues, before concluding, I would like to stress your attention to inequalities: social, territorial and gender inequalities. He was not a man of the South, but his sensitivity and attention to the Mezzogiorno were the central element of his action. As has been recalled, for the succession he chooses to secretary of the CGIL Susanna Camusso, the first woman secretary general. To us today it remains - truly without rhetoric - in a country that often seems increasingly poorer from a human point of view, a great vacuum that we will never be able to fill. Parliament and the country lose a man of the institutions, a democrat, for the workers a leader, for the left, for the socialists, a comrade. The feeling is now of thanks to William for what he has done for the country, for the workers, for all the compañeras and compañeros in the struggle for a more just society. The commitment we have to make is to try to be up to it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u19	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the government, colleagues, those who met William Epifani, or simply listened to him, understood that he was above all a decent person. A man who, in whatever task he has tried, has demonstrated a great coherence of ideas and purposes, and consistency has always been supported by a great preparation. It never happened to hear Guglielmo Epifani talk about a subject he didn't know about. This is the memory that we parliamentarians have, but also that of the ordinary citizens who have known it through the news or television broadcasts. Another feature that characterized him was the ability to confront himself by listening to the ideas of others, without sterile contrasts, but always in a constructive way. Its origin from the trade union world and its political militancy in a purely left-wing union certainly made it one of the best men of that political part, which obviously dealt with the issues of the world of work with great competence, which we could not always share, but of which we understood the reasons well and appreciated the firm but calm way of defending them. His absence, therefore, weighs on politics and to his family goes the convinced condolences of all the senators of Forza Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u22	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in life you are lucky enough to meet and know people, or you learn to know them on TV or reading books; people who have a different vision from their own, with whom you do not even share ideas and programs, but the true, loyal, constructive confrontation helps to grow, especially if you have had a person like Guglielmo Epifani in front of you. Defects and differences, in fact, are only known thanks to those who are able, politely, to make them known. Thus we grow and Epifani, with his history and his battles, helped us to grow, understand and collaborate. Bringing nearly a million people to the square also demonstrates a strong and constructive charism. He was a man who, for the good of the community and without criticism, has always faced difficult choices and complex union moments. It is true: the union loses a man educated and determined. Epifani knew that his world represented not the entrepreneur, but the worker, but, as a correct man and not hypocritical, he worked not for the consent but for the good of his workers. Epifani will remain an uncancellable memory of a kind man and will also be missed by those who did not think like him. From the League a sincere mourning and closeness to the family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u25	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars Group, I join in the pain of Guglielmo Epifani's disappearance and express my condolences to the family and its closest affections. It is not easy to remember in a few minutes a man of high moral, social and political stature as Epifani was. But I want to start with some of his words dating back to fifteen years ago, when he was general secretary of the CGIL, but still profoundly current; words that Epifani used to claim the role and importance of his union in the social, political and historical context of the time and that I believe perfectly summarize the mission that he carried out throughout his career, first in Corso d'Italia and then in Parliament, as evidenced by the presence in Piazza Santi Apostoli, in Rome, alongside the workers of Whirlpool a few days ago, before his disappearance. "Redesigning the country" he wrote: "it is precisely this: knowing how to attack the core nodes of a productive and social model that has generated more inequalities, more poverty, more loneliness; and indicating the need to define a proposal and a project for its reconstruction, for its civil and moral rebirth, starting from (...) the centrality of the value of the social of work"; inequality, poverty and loneliness that he had touched with his hand when, as a teenager, after returning to Rome from Milan, he went to do repetitions to the children of the most disadvantaged families and to assist the elderly. Also for this reason, in the process of reconstruction that Italy is preparing to do to get out of the pandemic, the wisdom, coherence, the propensity to dialogue and confrontation, the balance and determination of William Epifani, whom I personally had the opportunity to appreciate, would have been a very valuable asset for all of us. Several times, in the year and a half in which I held the position of Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I had the opportunity and the good fortune to confront him both in public and in private. The need to ensure more decent work, especially for younger generations and women, to support work in low-productivity sectors, to pay close attention to business and employment crises, as well as the need to invest in research and training were recurring issues during our talks. Among the many objectives we shared, there was also the priority of ensuring greater safety in the workplace for all workers; this is because - to remember today was also Senator Malpezzi - as Epifani said in one of his last speeches in the Chamber, everything depends on the health and safety of people: the state of the present, the possibility of planning the future, the economic interests, their dignity, their freedom, their work, the system of relationship affections. He wrote Nietzsche: "Greatness means: giving direction. No river itself is large and rich: it is the fact of welcoming and conveying to itself many tributaries what makes it such. The greatness of Guglielmo Epifani, a educated, pragmatic and inclusive leader, was to never change the way by always meeting the workers and their rights. It is up to us to continue to follow her by honouring her memory daily. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u26	He asked the Minister of Health Hope to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add my words of condolence, on behalf of the Italian Government, as a result of this disappearance which leaves an uncompromising void. I listened carefully to all the speeches and their measure also gives the sense of the personality with which we are dealing, a clearly biased personality, with a clear and clear idea, but always ready to dialogue with everyone and interpreter of the constitutional mandate. Our Constitution requires us to assume and carry out our functions with discipline and honor and I believe that the figure of William Epifani has been able to represent with high head and with absolute quality exactly these functions. William was a great intellectual, but at the same time a pragmatic and popular man. William was at the same time a firm person on the principles, very strict on the big issues, but always attentive to the opinions of others, always aware, polite, curious to understand and understand also the opinion of those who thought differently. And then there are the work and the defense of the right to work as an essential matrix of his life. I think it was not a coincidence, but perhaps a will of God, to see him for the last time just a few days after his disappearance in a square, alongside the workers of Whirlpool. He has been for the entire existence alongside those who fight to defend the work as an essential trait of the identity and life of each. She was socialist, as she has often been called back in recent weeks. I like to say that his idea of socialism was imbued with humanism: a socialism intended as a daily attempt to build a different reality, in which each one could be offered an opportunity, in which no one was left behind and in which everywhere, in every corner of the world, one could fight to widen the rights, to give more rights to all. In conclusion, I want to thank you for the words you wanted to use, without differences of colors, in the memory of this personality. I clearly add the condolences of the government and the commitment to keep that lesson alive: a lesson of a constitutional nature, which I believe must involve us all in the next difficult and complicated challenges that the country will face. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u28	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2271, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general discussion and examination of the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the Decree-Law took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u31	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr. Representative of the Government, Senators and Senators, the decree-law that we are about to convert is in direct succession, but in clear and profound discontinuity, with a series of measures that preceded it and imposed restrictive measures to contain the outbreak from Covid-19. This decree is the last piece of the normative mosaic that has characterized the life of the country in the last year. We cannot fail to express a satisfaction, clearly mitigated by the negative effects of Covid, that there are still - we would miss it - because the virus has not disappeared and still produces suffering and death. It is clear, however, that in recent months we have experienced a decided change of pace with the Government Dragons, through clear and clear choices, as we can see in the light of a finally vigorous vaccination campaign: over 42 million doses, 2,700 vaccine points - other than "the Primules," of which we talked a lot, from 8.5 million euros, on which we will then have to clarify in the next weeks - 14 million citizens vaccinated with two doses, with a radical overall improvement of the pandemic and epidemiological situation. The conversion of this measure takes place in a phase of restart already in place, awaited by all the activities that have suffered the most heavy consequences of the pandemic. The system has been defended in the last few months with necessary and certainly inadequate rest periods, but there was no alternative to the restrictions imposed, because public safety care in terms of health had to prevail, as well as safety at the workplace. The House of Deputies has been introduced, because it is possible, some changes that have accompanied the change of pace relating to emergency management. We must thank all those who have worked to reach this virtuous path. Four months ago it seemed impossible to speculate or trace such a situation. As a political force we have been decisive supporters of a change of pace, at that time opposed, considered in some way the wreckage of the situation, while today in reality the results testify that there really was a need for a change, a new government initiative and what the current government is doing goes in the direction we want. It is also a step change from the point of view of working methods: the phase of emergency management has gone down through the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and it has moved to a management that provides for a greater involvement of Parliament through decree-laws, which allow us today to be able to treat the measures - as the Senate is doing and as has been done in the House in previous weeks - introduce changes and restore momentum to parliamentary participation as a crucial and nerve point of the life of our democracy. Considering the positive evolution of the epidemiological framework, the decree-law provides for a series of measures that we now know and which are common heritage of our citizens, which have seen a progressive reopening of activities, an improvement of mobility possibilities: on June 7 the curfew was moved to 24 hours, and from next June 21 will cease; with the passage of twelve regions in white colour, in their territory a total freedom of movement is restored. The schools have been reopened and there has been the reopening of the restaurants, first outdoors and now also indoors: activities that have suffered heavily, but that now see some light at the end of the tunnel. The decree-law in question also provides for the progressive opening of museums, gyms, swimming pools and all places of culture and sociality. From July 1 will reopen also the spas, theme parks and are already back to be organized ceremonies, weddings and events: a sector of society and economy that has often not been properly considered; the wedding has lost a lot and there has been suffering of many entrepreneurs in that sector, maybe not under the spotlight like other activities, who have paid a hard price but now they also see a new light at the bottom of the tunnel. Another important aspect is the green vaccine pass. The Italian Government anticipated the European design of the green pass, providing for its validity from the fifteen days following the administration of the first dose and for the next nine months. In short, the Draghi Government has demonstrated timing and Parliament has demonstrated the ability to transpose the Government's indications. That there are some steps forward also testifies to the recent data of the observatorio of the public accounts of Cottarelli, that they have evidenced that the relaxation of the restrictions, that the decree of 22 April has determined, has led to an improvement of the mobility. Indeed, data for car and public transport travel are above the level of 13 January 2020, in pre-Covid period. This means that the country feels in a determined way a climate of restart, and this is what we must try to accompany, certainly not giving up completely, because economic and social activities and citizens must respect the protocols and fundamental rules that have characterized this year of life (the distance, the use of masks). There must still be attention, but it is part of the culture of Italians, because this year will not be easily forgotten. We believe that this is a measure built in the wake of the calculated risk, which a few months ago caused someone's nose to twist, but it actually contained a clear indication that the government wanted to give: to leave with small steps. But if that restart was possible and the small steps are now becoming bigger, we owe it to the attention of the Government and the President of the Council, who we support with conviction not only in the light of what he is doing in the field of the fight against the pandemic, given the results before everyone: we support him with conviction in a phase of relocation in our country to the level he deserves. We have also seen the success of the recent G7; it has little to do with the pandemic, but certainly the recovery of the countries after the pandemic was the basis of that meeting in Cornwall where our Premier represented Italy in the best way and has relocated our country in the clarity of the alliances that historically characterized it (Atlanticism, Europeanism), something that is fundamental to us and must be for this Parliament. It is regrettable that, while our President was engaged in that diplomatic and political effort, someone preferred to meet the ambassador of China, a country that we deeply respect because we have fundamental trade relations and certainly represents a world excellence in economic and political relations, but which certainly is not part of our way of understanding, especially as regards human rights, political relations and the everyday life of life. Let us welcome the commitment of our President, who we continue to support with conviction. Parliament has the duty - as it has already done for this decree - to work alongside the Government, guaranteeing the conversion of the decree-laws and the improvement of the same, giving the country the momentum to emerge from a difficult crisis that in the coming months will still show the sign. With these measures and with such determination, however, the country will be allowed to review the light. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u34	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few points to make. The Conte Government in 2020 issued 35 decrees and placed 10 times the trust. The Dragon Government in a few weeks issued 10 decrees and placed three trusts. Colleagues, made the necessary proportions, the Government Dragons is worse than the Government Count because, with such a huge majority, putting the question of trust is an institutionally inconceivable and incomprehensible fact. Mr President, in addition, this umpteenth position of confidence in the first part of the parliamentary evaluation of the conversion of the decree, i.e. to the House, also renews a sort of self-form of the institutions, which has seen us guiltyly prone to cancel a branch of Parliament by reasoning and approving measures only in a Chamber and leaving to the second one their ratification and their passage without hurting, because they are blocked or armored by the position of the question of trust. With this measure we have innovated further and we have thought, even though we have a majority hypertrophy available, to put the question trust from the first institutional step. And we do not do it on a measure of normal scope, on a sort of due act that must reasonably and quickly integrate a regulatory vacuum: we do it on the most important act that the Italians have been waiting for for over a year, that is for over fifteen months, which provides how, when and why to reopen activities, individual freedoms and freedoms of enterprise. We've been talking about the dream of all Italians for over a year now. Mr President, this type of act we see it treated in such a way and we are paid spectators of the government's activity acting in total disregard of the necessary confrontation at institutional levels constitutionally responsible for the analysis and evaluation of the measures and their deliberation. Obviously the result of all this is a largely incomplete, not exhaustive and largely apodiptic measure. It continues the practice of absolutely incomprehensible decisions, which do not find a logical response and which people do not understand. Mr President, I am not just talking about reopening rules. Let me give an example to make it clear to my colleagues: yesterday in the Health Commission we held the hearing of Asso Entertainment: an absolutely important sector that concerns the world - as it were - of night, of dance halls, of discos, of places where we are entertained - lively God - in great freedom. We are approaching the tourist season and I remind everyone that a quarter of the Italian gross domestic product (GDP) refers to the enlarged tourism sector, between direct and indirect: it is therefore an important part of our GDP; the entertainment sector is within the large tourism industry and we all know what has suffered under the blows of the government's measures that, on the side of the health containment of the pandemic, has been forced to act on the side of the limitation of individual freedoms and enterprise. This world today doesn't understand what it has to do. The decree-law in question does not contain the necessary clarifications; the municipalities act in total freedom of judgment and the mayors inevitably have to fill the gaps of the government's provisions that do not speak clearly and equate a disco or dance room with 50-60 employees to a bar with two employees or a restaurant with three or four employees. Even after fifteen months, and therefore even after having had all the time necessary to think, reason, evaluate, prepare and confront the operators on the necessary measures, we today have a restart to say the least, a non-start. Today we are faced with yet another measure not shared by much of the operators of our country. In addition, given the presence of my colleague, Mr Sileri, I would like to focus on the health aspect of this historic moment which we define as a restart. The Minister Speranza has thought well to depart, because obviously the provision that pertains to the restart is not his stuff; he leaves the Ministry worthyly represented by my colleague Sileri and I would say that we do not feel the lack of Minister Speranza, if not at institutional level. Coming to the Chamber correctly and rightly to tell us about his grief at the loss of the late Guglielmo Epifani, he could at least have the courtesy to stay for a coffee with us, to deal with a measure that Italy has been waiting for for over a year. Anyway, it is. The measure gives us further concern about tracking. Link Sileri, we lost track when the pandemic passed us, when the numbers exceeded reality; now that the numbers are lower the tracking has to be recovered, because the variants have to be tracked and sequenced. If, even with the current numbers, we can't restore the tracking, we're fucked and I apologize to the presidency for using a strong term, but I guess it's... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Maybe it was better to find a synonym. Mr Zaffini (FdI). I apologise to the Presidency. Pretend I didn't say it. I make amends. However, the subject remains, Mr Sileri. Even with these numbers, do we think we're not tracking? I'll say more. We think of hooking the green pass, with all the doubts expressed, even authoritatively, by the Guarantor, to the Immuni app, which is an app by anonymous definition, built to be anonymous. And we attack you with a document that, by definition, must be personal, individual; it must be a certificate, which, incredibly, gives us the opportunity - in the hope of someone, which I think is unnormal - to enter the restaurant, to go to the theater, to play a football game. We are really at a stage of incomprehensible activity of this Government and the Ministry. Go on alone, keep going alone. And I'd like to say that the results are under everyone's eyes. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u37	VALENT (PD). Mr President, as many have already said, speaking in the debate yesterday and in an explanation of vote today, what we are now voting on is a measure that finally marks a reversal of trend and finally lets us see a light at the end of the tunnel; of course, a light not yet definitive, but a light. We were waiting for him and certainly the Italians, many families, many workers, many young people who have finally waited for a change of pace. With this measure we outline the last hairpins of a climb that, however, is not yet concluded and that, therefore, must be addressed, still in the coming weeks and months, with prudence and rigour, precisely at this stage more necessary than ever. This is an act which is part of a very complex and complex intervention, which has helped us to cope with the emergency in recent months and which, from the point of view of a legal framework, has essentially been defined by measures, also very articulated and different from one another, which, however, we all know well in this House and on which it is useless to return. In this context it is perhaps more useful to remember that, at some point, with a conscious choice, over which the Democratic Party was decided, we decided to abandon the DPCM tool. We considered it a qualifying choice in the name of Parliament's involvement at a time when - as we all remember - despite choices made, however, it took very fast time in the decisions. This decree recognizes the state of emergency at 31 July and defines, at the same time, a path of reopening activities, so as to reconcile the attention to the evolution of the virus with the need to resume economic, social and cultural activities that have been interrupted during this year and a half. In all these months the Democratic Party, in the parliamentary classrooms but also and above all in its action as a government, has tried to keep the principle, for us indispensable, yesterday as today, of precaution and prudence, always firm. He has always defended the idea that the solution of the health emergency could only come from science and tools, obviously starting from the vaccine and the extraordinary skills of doctors and researchers to whom it was necessary to pay attention. [[Applause]] I want to say this forcefully: it was yesterday, it is today and it will be tomorrow, even outside the emergency. We did so in the knowledge that such a pandemic required that politics take not a step back, but at least a step side by side, finding a way to dialogue rigorously, prudently and decisively with the whole scientific community. And so we did. It has not always been easy, but perhaps today, at last, albeit subtlely, looking at past choices, we can say that it was right to do all this: make every effort not to oppose rights, always trying to find a delicate balance, certainly difficult and tiring, but necessary, between the universal right to health and the protection of all other personal freedoms. This is also to reiterate, once again, that the state of emergency has never been a blank delegation to the Government, as well as someone has tried to say. It was, on the other hand, an instrument that gave us the opportunity to act, but it never allowed any automatism. Proof of this is the fact that today, precisely by extending the emergency, the decree confirms, instead, a different tendency: to extend reopenings and new beginning. It has therefore allowed a gradual opening, which today makes us witness the constant slowing down of the contagions, primarily due to the success of the vaccination campaign, but also to the rules that we have put in place to define the timetable of the progressive easing of restrictions and restrictions on movement. I would therefore like to mention, in particular, the rule governing the Green Pass Institute, introduced by the measure under consideration and recently also adopted by the European Parliament. It has been said that this document will attest to the carrying out of the vaccination anti-Covid; it will be fundamental and will allow the temporary exit from some residential structures and the assistance in the waiting room also for the companions of patients suffering from Covid. These rules, in addition to justifying the legislative form of the decree-law, demonstrate effective parliamentary work and represent a considerable step forward in the effort that our country, government and Parliament have made and are still making to face the emergency health. It is a terrible crisis in which everyone has lost something, starting obviously from those who - unfortunately - have lost the most dear people. They have lost so much the kids, our teenagers and the little ones in terms of precious opportunities for sharing, growth and friendship. There are those who have suffered serious losses in their activities or even their jobs. Of course, I want to mention women and young people who - as we know - are paying the highest price of the crisis. For all this, the commitment that we have put on the field in the past months and above all in some moments, also because of the difficulties of a physical presence in parliamentary activity, has been strong. This commitment must continue with equal force in the months ahead, which we hope will be better from a health point of view, but which may be more difficult for the social and economic emergency that awaits us. We have entered this pandemic with strong inequalities between levels of inclusion, we have crossed it with differences between those who have been most guaranteed and those who have been less and today we come out with those gaps that unfortunately have expanded and deepened. It is therefore essential - as the President of the Council often tells us - to work towards the inclusion of all and all, in order to create the best conditions for the development of the country. Territorial health, school, work and welfare: this is the strategy for the future that is not limited to the coming years, but projects courageously the coming decades and believes that those sectors are no longer a cost, but a serious and indispensable investment, with the aim of overcoming existing disparities and inequalities. We want to remember strongly that disparities and inequalities are not only unfair things, but are today a serious and heavy obstacle to growth (both gender, generation, territory and economic and social sectors). Our party participates with conviction in this Government and supports its ambitious agenda, also collaborating with heterogeneous political forces, because it knows how important it is today to share and restore to Italy the strength to build, even on new bases, its future. The Italians, women and young people who have endured so many sacrifices that we have a duty not to waste. The path that has begun to return to normality is a clearer demonstration of how much we all want to defend individual and collective freedoms that only a democracy achieved, even in the most difficult stages, can live together. And it is now clear to everyone that, if we had not temporarily renounced a portion of our individual freedoms in recent months, we would have tragically undermined other principles and rights that the Constitution protects in the same way and force. Keeping health and freedom together was therefore a right choice, which allowed us today to arrive here and to outline with prudence and optimism a gradual return to such a long-awaited normality. Let me make one last joke. We hope and work to ensure that this is not the same normality, but better than before, because it will have to strive to overcome old and new limits and twists, trying to avoid (even with a large investment not temporary, but decided and lasting in science, research and international cooperation) that the twists that we have seen and that the pandemic has delivered us do not repeat. He announced that, with these wishes, the PD would vote strongly in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u40	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 52 of 22 April 2021, which we are preparing to approve definitively, is certainly a quite significant event. I would like to recall that the aforementioned decree-law also contains decree-law 30 April 2021, n. 56, and decree-law 18 May 2021, n. 65, inserted in the passage to the House. The measure actually represents the sign of the reopening of the country and puts a firm point on the path of the last year and this difficult period. In the context of a health situation in positive evolution, thanks to the slowing down of the infection and the acceleration of the vaccination campaign, the decree-law, with the measures directed to the relaxation of all limitations, marks the phase of restart. It is therefore a very important moment for the country. The measure also contains a number of rules that help us to deal with the reopening phase, which certainly marks a new and important start. Since some Members, in their explanations of vote, wanted to mark a kind of discontinuity, I would like to remind you here that this is not the case. I say this because it is good that this should be handed over to the records and reports of this House. The measure is in fact placed exactly in succession and, therefore, in continuity, with the cornerstones, the decree-law 25 March 2020, n. 19, and the decree-law 16 May 2020, n. 33. Capitals in the sense that the procedure of decree-laws was adopted and on that it continued to work. This was, of course, also a major step forward from the point of view of the relationship with Parliament. It is also in continuity because decree-law by decree-law, all these measures - and there have been so many - have accompanied the great and difficult phase of emergency and have all been marked (the results of today are due to this), an approach that has always been aimed - I would like to claim it - to put at the centre not only the health of the citizens, but the precautionary principle. This was the element that guided and inspired the decree-laws that sometimes appeared very complicated and difficult, because at the same time they seemed to compress a series of freedoms. The precautionary principle, at the basis of all existing policies, has led to a balance between the right to health and constitutionally protected rights (I am thinking of freedom of movement). It is precisely the guidelines that have informed the actions of the last year and a half, in my opinion, have allowed us to achieve these results. All the discussion about curfew, which has seen us divided, as if it were an ideological question, between those who wanted to remove curfew and those who wanted to keep it, and all the elements of prudence that have been carried forward today allow us to finally have a country with the great majority of the Regions in the white zone, to extend the possibility of movements until midnight, eliminating curfew afterwards. The decisive element was to be able to assess and balance the risk always with the urgency, which certainly exists, of the resumption of economic activity and of the possibility for citizens to move. I repeat that this decree-law, which we all have been waiting for for a long time and which marks the reopening, is exactly the result of the work and the previous settings. We are now at a different stage, but I think that we must never undermine the principles I was talking about earlier, namely the principles of precaution and prudence. The behaviours and also the messages that are sent by this House, by those who have institutional responsibilities, must always reiterate that we do not yet live free from the virus, which, as we know, continues to circulate, even if in very small forms (but we also have the problem of variants). Therefore, all the more so, the reopenings, the possibility of a return to social life and the resumption of productive activities must always be the sign - I repeat, let us never forget this - of the precautionary principle and of prudence, because we must avoid going back to difficult times and new closures, as unfortunately happened after last summer. Of course, we are at a different stage and today it is clearly also necessary to take different decisions. The colleague of Brothers of Italy referred, for example, to the question of tracing. I think this is an issue that we should deal with very seriously today, because the number of infections is greatly reduced. We have a problem and a danger that can come from the variants; we think precisely of the Indian variant, that currently in our country seems to circle only for one percent. But, all the more so now that the numbers are much smaller, it is possible in my opinion to start a phase that allows us, through tracking, to have a greater control. All of these elements, which are obviously part of the debate and the indications that we must give from this House to the Government, must not make us neglect another element. In this difficult period of pandemic crisis and therefore of emergency (then we will see if it will be extended beyond 31 July, these are issues that we will face as soon as possible), it is urgent to try to really, seriously and thoroughly address the problems that the pandemic has left us. It has done nothing but sharpen the major structural problems already present in our country. The inequalities have been further widened, and we can never forget that. We must put in place even more policies and instruments (the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is not enough) that allow us not to go back to the way we were before or even to be worse than before. These are social emergencies. We must also not forget that we must invest in the public health service; this is the other element that gives us the experience of this pandemic. It will not suffice the resources, which are considerable though, put within the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but I believe that it will be necessary to tackle to the full, in this House and in the relevant fora... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u41	Senator De Petris, if you wish, you may decide to hand over the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u42	[[Senator De Petris' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u45	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this should be mentioned as an important moment, and that is because it marks the boundary between the transition from an emerging situation to a situation that wants to be normalized. We welcome him with great satisfaction. I believe I do not reveal any secrets if I say that, within the Council of Ministers, the parties of the centre-right were those who, first and most persistently, asked President Draghi and the entire government to widen the strings of restrictions in order to allow a gradual return to normality. This attitude, this activity that has led to a close confrontation, many times even rough - but in my opinion necessary for the purposes it was intended - has given its results, and we can only be satisfied, even if we cannot tell ourselves completely out of the pandemic crisis. The attitude that the right-wing parties have taken at these stages was not irresponsible, but they wanted to give the citizens that sense of responsibility, that credit they certainly have the right to boast. On the other hand, it was not possible to wait for the final exit from the pandemic to reopen business, business and work activities, which have seen in recent years mortgage, out of necessity, the future of our children and grandchildren with continuous budget deviations that have served not to compensate, but to alleviate as much as possible the damage and suffering of the economic sector. We read daily of commercial activities and catering, of bars that close, therefore, probably, according to our point of view, we should have started first to loosen this situation of rigidity in movements and in the exercise of commercial activities. However, we are satisfied that this has happened in the end. We also take note of a change, of a reversal of the trend: we went from the DCCM - which practically put Parliament, but also the Head of State, in the position of unarmed spectators of the initiatives of the President of the Council - to the phase of the decree-laws, which are certainly the result of an emerging moment, but which make Parliament participate in the process of legislative conversion and, as in this case, give the possibility to introduce additional elements, from our point of view also improving. We must continue on this path. The emergency time will end on 31 July; I was reading this morning of the possibility of extending it until 31 December. I believe that this must be a preventive attitude and, that is, in the hope that there is no need for it, we still give the Government - until that date - the opportunity to intervene in a timely manner on possible resistances. The pandemic is not completely defeated; certainly the percentages tell us that the vaccination campaign and the education to respect the minimum security measures by citizens have contributed greatly to reducing the number of infections daily and have practically led to normal situations of our hospitals that, for a time, have been at the limit of collapse. This must make us reflect on the fact that we cannot and must no longer be in this situation. We hope that the sums allocated to the Recovery and Resilience Plan will be properly invested, in order to make it possible to repay the sacrifices that we have asked future generations for with investments for the restarting of the engines of the economy, which can allow everyone to have an adequate working perspective. Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will certainly vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law, but I would like to raise a question of method, which has been mentioned by some of the opposition colleagues and which I believe is right to be reiterated by the representatives of the majority. This is an institutional majority, made in the interest of the country; Every party that supports this government has made a field choice: it preferred the reasons of the country rather than the interests of its own party, not looking at the polls and not talking to the belly of the citizens, who at a time of difficulty clearly have the right to protest. However, Mr President, it is not possible for a branch of Parliament - in this case, the Senate of the Republic - to have a function solely of ratifying the work carried out by the House of Deputies. This isn't possible. I say this because, while we are about to convert this decree-law, the House of Deputies is in question with the decree-law support- bis, the decree-law on simplifications, the decree-law on the Agency for cybersecurity: practically we will be forced, for the time necessary to deepen these measures in that forum, to come to the Senate Chamber to give only a tribute to the signing of an activity that others carry out, without coordination between the various branches of Parliament, without the senators being able to participate and intervene in this process of conversion of decree-laws. I therefore hope that for the future there will be an adequate balance and respect for the legislative prerogatives of the Senate of the Republic, which cannot be merely a spectator, nor can it only be called upon to ratify. Ours is still a parliamentary republic based on perfect bicameralism, so I believe that the Senate has the same prerogatives and the same rights to face and intervene in legislative processes. We, for example, would have modified this measure; we like it, we will vote on it, it is already a great achievement for us, having long requested a loosening of restrictive measures, but we would have included other elements. We had proposed amendments, which we then withdrew, which aimed to predict that the beginning of the school year was certainly in presence and given the possibility to those who had the competence to organize themselves in time, never again to return to what we have lived on the skin of our young people, our children, who have practically lost two years of teaching activity in presence, to whom they were entitled. [[Applause]] But we have not been able to insist on these amendments, which - I repeat - we have withdrawn out of a sense of responsibility. All this to say, Mr President, that we expect equal dignity for the future vis-à-vis the House of Deputies. We do not understand why a branch of Parliament should be charged in such a clear and pressing way, leaving the other branch to deal with the ordinary administration and to ratify the measures transmitted by the House of Deputies. I hope that for the future your lordship will also take into account this voice, which comes not only from the opposition parties, but also from the majority parties, who call for equal dignity to the Senate of the Republic. It is with these wishes and with these considerations, that we consider absolutely positive, that I announce the vote in favour of the conversion into law of this decree-law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u48	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Decree-Law No 52 of 2021 that we are about to convert is basically the synthesis of two previous decrees which, in continuity with other measures adopted by the current Government, but also by the previous Government, are aimed at managing the situation created after the pandemic. They intervene in chronological continuity, but in substantial discontinuity, because finally the paradigm has changed: we move from restrictions, from closures, from limitations to reopenings. This, of course, has been possible thanks to the effectiveness that the vaccination campaign has acquired with the passing of the days, effectiveness that has gradually grown, which will presumably allow us to arrive at immunity of flock by next September, a clearly indispensable condition for a return to full normality. For this I extend my praise to General Son and to the governors of the Regions who have been found ready for the necessities to which they have been recalled. [[Applause]] However, it is also due to the Italians, who with stoicism, with a sense of responsibility, with that sharing of the objective that has characterized many of us, have adapted to the measures planned and this has meant that the numbers of positives to the contagion have reduced to that residual share that we all know and that has become a constant of the last days. Now the goal is to restart the country. My professional experience shows me a risk in front of us, a ravine in which we risk falling. I know, for doing this job for so many years, that we are close to the end of an economic cycle. The economy proceeds by cycles, so at favorable times inevitably result in movements of less favor and in my opinion the decline of the markets of 2020, having been determined by a pathological cause, does not represent the end of the cycle, but in reality does not allow us to say that we have come out of a positive economic cycle that lasts for more than 10 years, one of the longest of all times. This allows me to get to the point I said earlier: in my opinion, at the moment, we run the risk that the end of a positive economic cycle will leave us unprepared in the event that it should come to the adoption of contrast measures and this is always necessary. If I were to ask each one of us what was the most serious economic crisis of all time, everyone would answer that it was 1929 and they would be right, not because in its fundamental terms it was actually so serious, but because it became so when, in accordance with the principle of non-interference of the Federal Reserve, it was decided not to go to disturb the normal course of the markets, it was allowed to start a domino effect that then, by cascade, brought the consequences on the markets that we all know, therefore to the most serious economic crisis of all time. The crises can be tackled, even in very effective terms, with two main measures. The first is that of placing liquidity on the markets: in times of need, central banks place liquidity to support the markets in difficulty. The other weapon available is the reduction of rates, but at the moment all the countries of the world are putting on the markets a quantity of liquidity that had never been previously foreseen as support for the economy. We often talk about the Marshall plan, but that plan was limited in its territorial effectiveness, as it concerned an entire continent, but it did not affect the whole world as it is now, because all the countries of the world have taken measures to counter the crisis with an unprecedented amount of liquidity. It is essential, therefore, that in order to avoid the negative consequence of the end of an economic cycle these measures become effective, so it is okay that support measures have been envisaged in the recovery plan, but we have a responsibility to make them effective both in substantive terms and in time, because if we were not timely we would risk arriving late and that would obviously be a responsibility for all of us. Reforms and simplifications are needed to make the measures effective. Since, in order to deepen this aspect now, I should like to go into a speech that, due to lack of time, would be impossible for me to even begin with, I shall confine myself to this mention. The other element is the reduction of rates. Apart from the Federal Reserve, which has a minimum margin in this respect, in almost all developed countries the rates are at historical lows, the interbank rates are even negative, so that liquidity has become a cost and some banks have come to close the current accounts with very high stocks, so obviously this is not a possibility in our availability. That is why the decree under consideration, in my opinion, is very important because, although it is not perfect, as some colleagues have also pointed out, it is still a step in the right direction, so it is essential that we adopt it, which allows the restart of our economy. However, this is not the only positive aspect contained in it, because another essential element is the restarting of sociality, with the reduction of the limits and the progressive overcoming of the same in terms of mobility and transfers, as well as the reduction and then, as requested by us, the abolition of the limits to the times, the limitation and then the abolition of the limits to conviviality, with the elimination of the restrictions that currently concern the catering sector. All this will allow, not only a full recovery of the sociality of people, but will also give substantial help to our economy, as I said before. In these situations, it is clear that there is no room for reasoning by compartmentalization, so inevitably what has consequences in one sector also has consequences in all the others. The restriction of restrictions will therefore also be a substantial aid to our economy: let us not forget that reopenings will be the best refreshment. It is clear that we could not but support those who did not have economic self-sufficiency, but let us never forget that the best refreshment will be the reopenings, the restarting [[Applause]] , restart that is necessary because the Nation is exhausted. When a country like ours is so in trouble, it becomes the moment of responsibility. The current one is not the moment of controversy, it cannot be the moment of sterile criticism. Criticism is welcome when it comes to improving government action towards those responsible for it at that time, but sterile criticism never serves anything and, at a time of great difficulty like the present, it is likely to do damage. As I said, this is the moment of political responsibility that we have as administrators, but also personal responsibility, because in my opinion each of us should do everything in our power to help others. At the time of difficulty you stretch your hand, you try to help how and when you can. In this regard, I want to report a personal episode that happened to me three weeks ago. I accidentally read on Facebook a series of insults addressed to all politicians. I could turn to the other side and go further, but I did not do so because, instead of being addressed to a specific political side, as is usually the case, they were generic, aimed at all of us. I decided to go further, making sure that those insults were determined by the fact that that person hadn't cashed in the integration fund for four months: four months without any kind of livelihood. By means offered by social media contact privately this person, who explains the situation to me. On the same evening I involve the Undersecretary Nisini; the week after that person and all his colleagues have cashed in the Integration Fund, because at the moment of difficulty the League is there. [[Applause]] That is where we must show that we are present and we will also demonstrate it in the next three months, collecting the signatures for the referendum, an occasion during which there will be a direct confrontation between all of us and the Italians. Since the time at my disposal is unfortunately almost over, I conclude by saying that we know that this provision is not perfect, but we also know that the best is the enemy of good and that the will to improve by force of good ideas has often ruined and rendered ineffective. So, thinking that the positive content of this decree... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u51	PISANI Giuseppe (M5S). Mr President, Mr Senator, Senator and Senator colleagues, millions of Italians have been living in the white zone for a few days now and can benefit from the easing of many of the restrictions imposed so far by the fight against coronavirus. This is certainly due to the behaviour of all Italians, but above all it is the consequence of the measures taken and the effect of the strict line maintained by the governments that have faced this pandemic, which have never run after the repeated proclamations of those who have tried, often unreasonablely, to anticipate the times. Times that, on the other hand, are dictated by the results that are gradually achieved with the right measures, as evidenced by the decrease of the contagions, the reduction of the admissions in intensive care and the decrease of the deaths of these last weeks. The reopenings will have to take place in compliance with obligations that remain firm (physical allocation, wearing masks, washing hands frequently), because the fight against the virus has not yet ended, and unfortunately reminds us of what is happening in Great Britain, where, due to the rapid spread of the Delta variant, the Indian one, which has become dominant in the country, Prime Minister Johnson was forced to postpone the long-awaited day of reopenings. A study published a few days ago on "The Lancet" - a prestigious medical scientific journal - has shown that Delta variant moderately reduces the effectiveness of vaccines. In particular, Biontech Pfizer provides protection against this variant by 79 percent, compared to 92 percent; Astrazeneca allows protection of 60 percent compared to 73 percent of the English variant. Therefore, the continuation of the vaccination campaign is crucial for restarting. The effect of vaccinations has allowed a large proportion of the population over seventy to be protected. This has meant that since May the circulation of the virus has become more widespread in younger age groups. The challenge now is not only to vaccinate these younger people, but also to convince that part of the population that, in every age group, is still undecided. The role of the general medical doctor, the first primary care actor, who knows his patients with whom he has established a close trust, is crucial in this challenge. The medical alliance of general and patient medicine is as decisive as ever. The medicine of the near future, the one designed by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, will also pass from the implementation of the medicine of the territory and primary care. Another pact that must be maintained is the one between public health and citizens: public health offers vaccination free of charge indicating the objectives to be achieved so that the citizen can decide to accept the offer of vaccination having clear the benefit to be drawn and the risk related, because the decision to undergo health treatment takes place with informed consent and well-formed. In this regard, I would like to say that fair and correct information should be associated with the renunciation of protagonism, especially by those who are not involved in the work. [[Applause]] , in particular in relation to specific subjects of health and medicine, subjects for which opinions must be formed on the basis of documented scientific evidence. It is therefore right that there are few voices to speak: in these cases, those of the authorities responsible for regulation and pharmacovigilance, with good peace of the various commentators who every day experiment on newspapers and media to say their own. Infodimia, that is, the epidemic of information, risks generating only confusion and alarm in the population, and it is acceptable to those who say that deciding whether to accept the vaccine offer or not does not mean the right to choose the type of vaccine by the patient. I take inspiration from the words of Filippo Anelli, president of the National Federation of Medical Order, when he recalls that vaccines are not toys. Like all medicines, vaccines also have side effects, which is why a doctor's prescription is expected and, therefore, the latter's responsibility is assumed both in civil and criminal matters. The reasoning about which vaccine should be given is the responsibility of the doctor, even if the citizen may decide whether or not to accept the choice of the doctor. Today is not the time to encamp merits, to claim birthright. As has been said several times in this House, it is more than ever the time to work together to get out of the crisis and lay a solid foundation for a prompt restart, committing itself to being able to carry out mass vaccination campaigns even in the countries that are less financially large. As rightly said, the vaccine is a common good and, as such, beyond the proper recognition for the commitment to research, it must be free and not subject to market logic. For these reasons we can be confident in the gradual resumption of economic and social activities and for this reason the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote in favour of the measure under discussion today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u53	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u54	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, the pass that you propose to us, among other things, in this decree is politically questionable, arbitrary, discriminatory and, perhaps, unconstitutional, but above all it is full of contradictions and counter-sensors. I mean, he looks like you. In summary, a non-mandatory vaccine is one of the prerequisites for a pass. I repeat: the vaccine is not mandatory. That would be enough to close the debate, but let us move on. The vaccine is not mandatory and is also free of charge, but if it is free of charge why do you have to pay for the other two options of the pass itself (tampons and tests)? I understand that the operator should not be disturbed and that vaccines are your mantra, but this is discriminatory. Act on the economic availability of families. Those who do not make the non-compulsory vaccine free of charge must pay for swabs and tests in order to get the pass, so as to push them to get the vaccine. You are pushing people to be guinea pigs and to be flocked, rather than flock immunity. The vaccine, however, does not always make you sleep peacefully. Apart from the people who die after making the vaccines, there are also those who made the vaccine, they made the call, go to the gym and, convinced that they are good, they infect because there are variants. There are also those who make the vaccine and do not develop antibodies. You give them the pass, but following your logical criterion you are giving the license of patented anointers and anointers according to law and, in fact, you are forced to talk about the third dose. It is not known on what scientific basis, but that is the case. There are guys who are ruining themselves just because you put them in the head that without vaccine they are not free and you do it through information even remotely controlled: RAI from public TV has become state TV. The other night Vespa did a shameful trial at Gianni Rivera, guilty of saying that she does not vaccinate and, since the vaccine is not mandatory, she can say so, as she can. On the other hand, Bruno Vespa cannot do TV bullying. So, I say no to your pass. To be free we have the Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u55	Before I move to the vote, allow me to express my personal congratulations to Senator Faith and to the entire Assembly for the election as President of the Human Rights Commission. [[Applause]] I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I am suspending the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.26 a.m. and resumed at 15.51 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u56	I call the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Pesco, to report on the Commission's work on draft law No 2207.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u57	Mr President, the work in the Commission is continuing, but unfortunately, it is not yet finished. A further period of time is needed to be able to close the work. I therefore turn to the decisions of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u60	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, with reference to what Mr Pesco has said, we want to denounce the immobilism of the majority, which is in confusion and is paralysing Parliament. On this measure I must say that we are at the final comedies. After much easier approval of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which was worth almost 200 billion euros, in these weeks we have completely stuck on a decree-law that is not worth little, because it is worth almost 31 billion euros. In the budget committee, we want to denounce the fact that we are unable to examine this measure, and indeed the work, Mr President, has not even begun: we are firm. I would like to remind everyone that we have only 166 amendments to consider and not, as has happened in the recent past on economic measures, a few thousand. President Pesco is simply calling and deceiving the Commission, clearly because of a strong clash within the majority. Since last night we have been going on with referrals: at least three meetings of the Commission have not exactly taken place. So nothing is being discussed about the substance of a decree-law that, as I repeat, is worth a budget law (almost 31 billion euros). The Commission's meetings have been cancelled because the majority forces do not agree with this measure and that is not acceptable to us. [[Applause]] Mr President, we ask you to be able to define the matter as soon as possible, because we still do not know if there will be a vote of confidence. The President informed us a short while ago that work will resume at 6 p.m., but I do not know whether we will be in a position to discuss tomorrow in this House, because clearly we in the Commission will ask for further consideration of the 166 amendments, in order to work on a whole series of measures that are of fundamental importance to the Brothers of Italy. We just want to reiterate, Mr President, that, as we have always said, this varied majority is not going anywhere, it is producing nothing constructive and, if it still serves, we have yet another confirmation today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u61	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2129. The rapporteur, Senator Garruti, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u62	Mr President, the text of the measure before us is the result of an agreement reached in the Commission by a large majority. The article only intervenes in administrative procedures, providing for the use of telematics in cases where this is possible. Articles 1 to 5 introduce simplification measures on the filing of electoral marks, on the authentication of signatures of electoral rollers, on the application of the certificate of registration on electoral lists, on the request and publication of certificates of the criminal record and on the appointment of list representatives. Article 1 intervenes both on the single text of the laws governing the election of the Chamber of Deputies and on the single text of the laws for the composition and election of the organs of the municipal administrations in the matter of the deposit of the electoral mark, providing that the same can be deposited short manu or on digital support or in three copies in paper form. Article 2 deals with Article 14 of Law No 53 of 21 March 1990 on subjects competent to authenticate the signatures of electoral list presenters. Compared to the list provided by the current legislation, the provincial councillors, the metropolitan councillors and the municipal councilors are inserted regardless of the communication of their availability. With regard to lawyers who have communicated their availability to the order of belonging, it is expected, with a view to transparency, that their names will be published promptly on the institutional site of the order. Article 3 provides that the certificate of registration on the electoral lists bearing the personal data and the registration number on the electoral lists of the voter, necessary for the subscription in support of lists of candidates for the political, European and administrative elections, proposals for referendums and for popular legislative initiatives, may be requested in digital form, by certified e-mail, by the secretary, president or legal representative of the party, the political movement or by one of the promoters through a special request to the electoral office, accompanied by a photocopy of the applicant's identity document. In case of a request via JEP, for subscriptions collected for lists of candidates, it is expected that the electoral office should issue in digital format, by certified e-mail, the required certificates within 24 hours of the request. Where the request by certified e-mail of certificates relates to popular referendums, the electoral office shall issue the required certificates in digital format by certified e-mail within 48 hours of the application. The certificates, issued as described above, shall constitute for every legal effect copies conforming to the original. The compliance with the original of any analogue copies of the certificates received in digital form shall be attested by the person who requested it or by his/her delegate with an authentic autograph declaration made at the bottom of the analogue copy of the certificates. Article 4 deals with publication requirements for political parties and movements. Legal representatives of political parties or movements or persons delegated by them are expected to be able to request, including by certified e-mail, the certificates of the candidates' criminal record, including the mayor's candidate, subject to prior consent and by delegation of the person concerned. Article 5 stabilises the simplified procedures for the designation of list representatives already provided for in Article 1-a of Decree-Law No 25 of 5 March 2021 for the elections held for 2021. It is expected, in essence, both for national parliamentary elections and for local elections, that the act of designating list representatives at the electoral offices may also take place by certified e-mail before Thursday before the vote. Moreover, it is expected that the authentication provided for in the current legislation will not be necessary if the documents are signed digitally by the delegates and the documents are transmitted by certified e-mail. Article 6 provides for the entry into force of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u63	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u64	Mr President, before commenting on the substance of the measure, allow me to say a few words about the working method. If we are here with this measure, it is because in our Commission we have given ourselves a way of working innovatively, if we want, with a precise and precise organisation of the work that is transformed into efficiency and timeliness. I should therefore like - and I am pleased to do so - to thank and congratulate President Parrini because he is leading us in the first Commission in this activity which he has already seen in previous weeks to conclude a measure which is always connected with this matter, and today he brings to the Chamber the Act of the Senate 2129. Other measures are in the pipeline and, using the same method, we will be able to get there quickly and in a very productive way. This is a road that we trace and that we believe should be followed because it also allows to smooth the edges that may be present. On the merits, the measure consists of five articles, all linked to the desire to simplify a very technical and very particular subject such as that of the pre-election procedures, in order to simplify and take advantage of the potential that the new technologies offer us, modernising our electoral and pre-election system. The measure does not enter into the substance of the electoral process and has nothing to do with the electoral law and anything else, which is certainly a subject that deserves a wider interest and debate, but we intervene on some small niches of bureaucracy that create impediment. With Article 1 we offer, as an alternative to the traditional delivery of symbols, signs on cardboard, in glossy paper, to an extent of ten centimeters and three centimeters, a simple delivery of a digital file on support (whether a USB stick or a CD-ROM, even if the latter are now almost exceeded), which represents an act of modernity that we give to the system of presentation of symbols. Article 2 makes it possible to simplify the authenticity of signatures in the event of elections and referendums by removing the prediction that the city councilman, who already plays an official role, must nevertheless communicate his willingness to the mayor to authenticate the signatures. We take it for granted: the city councilman authenticates the signatures because this is part of his mandate, he has full title and it is also his duty to carry out this service to the community. On the other hand, we maintain the obligation to notify lawyers to the order, but with the obligation of the order to publish promptly on the website the list of lawyers made available, in order to allow interested parties to have full access to the list of names of those who carry out this important and delicate task. Article 3 deals with the simplification of the request for election certificates. When it comes to collecting signatures - we know that there are numerous signatures for political elections, regional elections or even referendums - the signatures of subscribers must be accompanied by an electoral certificate. Unlike an administrative election where the electoral office of reference is only one, several different entities are involved in this case. Therefore, the possibility of sending the request and receiving the certificate by certified e-mail (PEC) allows you to streamline the procedure and save time and paper and this is significant to allow easier access to democratic procedures. Article 4, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, seeks to remedy the inconsistencies in an existing law which, in view of the lack of presentation by candidates of the criminal record certificate, imposes a sanction on the reference party, without this being possible to remedy this lack. Therefore, we consent to the parties directly requesting the certificate, instead of and by delegation of the candidates, in order to complete the process of submission of the candidatures, as required by law. The last article is on list representatives. The norm is almost nineteenth century. For each electoral section of each Commonly called to vote, list delegates should deliver by 12 a.m. on Friday a declaration with double authenticated signature of the list representatives designated in that individual electoral section. Again, let's simplify: everything can be done with a single sending via PEC by midnight on Thursday, allowing also the offices to carry out all the necessary administrative operations. This, in Article 5, is the fifth bureaucratic simplification and simplification act we are putting in place. Mr President, I conclude by thinking that I have examined our measure quite thoroughly. Allow me to thank all the Commissioners who have contributed to the work and to the completion of its examination in the Commission, all the more so the members of the restricted committee and, even more so, the rapporteur, Mr Garruti, who has done a synthesis work in this area. [[Applause]] I join the applause, objectively deserved. I thank, of course, last but not least, the representative of the Government, who has assisted and guided us in the difficult pitfalls of ministerial opinions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u66	Mr President, this is yet another measure which, in my opinion, gives a further demonstration of the good performance and good practice that has been born and which continues, in my opinion, optimally in the Italian Parliament as a result of this new majority, which has found itself around a project of national unity that sees Draghi as President of the Council. This is a measure of parliamentary initiative, and this is in itself a good thing. It is a positive fact in itself in the context of the so complex electoral matter, especially for those who, as a working party, are accustomed to all the related procedures, even very complex and have become more and more so, in view of the increasingly evident desire to make them transparent, to the point that, perhaps, it will be difficult to find candidates available to get the TAC done before applying even only to the scranno of a Municipality of a few inhabitants. Well, in this case, however, I must say that the simplifying will is absolutely necessary in order to try to facilitate not only the candidates, but also and above all the political parties, which have been appropriately identified by our constituent Fathers and by our Constitution as an element of synthesis between the citizen and the institutions, therefore with an established role. Their hand is stretched out, in a beginning of legislative will which, however, wishes to improve the previous situation. I must say that even in the first Commission this new majority has proved itself. There has been a loyal collaboration, although starting from different positions, and I also congratulate the rapporteur, Senator Garruti, on the good practices put in place together with all colleagues, no one excluded, including you, Mr Calderoli, who, as always, with his experience and ability to sum up, has made a clear contribution to finding a solution that does not interest everyone, but in any case some of us. Among the novelties introduced by the legislative measure of parliamentary initiative under consideration, I would like to mention first of all the one concerning the famous criminal certificate, that is, the one to be extracted from the criminal record and that was expected to require only the person directly concerned, that is, the candidate for elections; now it is expected that it can also be requested by the political party. This is important, because, according to the previous legislation, the candidate should have requested it and deposited it in the proceedings, but the paradox was that, if he had not done so, the sanctions would have been imposed on the party and not on the person concerned, that is, on the candidate. It was a paradox and with the measure under discussion we try to fill a gap or, better to say, a real error of approach, which determined for all political parties (it is clear, from those of center-left to those of center-right, to the Movimento 5 Stars) a particularly difficult procedure, which certainly stimulated error and also caused damage to parties that - let us be frank - already have, all, problems of an economic and organizational nature and did not need a further burden. The second question concerns list representatives and was the main reason why the legislative procedure under discussion had been initiated. For these subjects it is now possible to simplify on the basis of the most modern technologies, with the possibility of indicating the list representatives by certified e-mail (PEC), a practice that has now become common use, especially for the freelancers or for those in charge of public administration, and it was obvious that it should also be introduced for a procedure that could no longer be based on archaic formalities, decidedly outdated by the times and that today should also be addressed to technology. Therefore, that list representatives can be mentioned via JEP seems to me to be a positive novelty. The last issue that I would like to highlight is that of electoral marks, which can now be deposited not only by hand, but also - via JEP - in digital form. This is another aspect, however, linked to ancient procedures, which have now passed since the times and which this legislation tends to meet. I conclude my general speech to say that we legislators should always have an approach aimed at simplifying procedures. Our life is particularly complex. All this in the last twenty or thirty years, especially the first Tangentopolis of the nineties, has provoked a kind of questioning of the goodness of anyone who wants to engage in political activity in a party or in a political movement. Since then everything has been complicated: the so-called anti-politics has been born and, at its side, a series of impediments, burdens and procedures have been born that tend to suppose that those who make politics have to do it with a second purpose, perhaps illegal. I hope that all this slowly begins to be part of the past and of a wrong culture, which tends not to approach the citizen, but to push him away more and more and to generate suspicion and the idea that anyone who wants to get closer to politics does it for personal interests, perhaps not even legal, and not that it does it instead to try to meet the needs of their community and their country, in order to improve the quality of life of each of us. But here is the true nobility that should concern anyone who approaches politics. This measure is only a small gesture, but it has its own political value. I was able to see in person - and even the Undersecretary was surprised (and I would also like to hear his voice) - how much, for the first time in such an important Assembly as that of the Senate, there is, on the part of political formations also so different and with political initiatives that are equally, a common will to find solutions that affect everyone, particularly the Italian citizens. Thanks to those who contributed to this result. I would particularly like to thank my dear friend Luigi Vitali, who has been so committed to the restricted committee and to whom my personal applause goes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u68	Mr President, the European elections were also held in Italy in June 2014. Stefano Patuanelli, in his capacity - then - as an effective delegate for the north-eastern circuit, appointed me sub-delegated throughout the province of Modena, enabling me to appoint list representatives, an assignment that I had already assumed in the administrative offices of 2009 and, subsequently, in all the electoral rounds that covered the Movimento 5 Stars in the nine Provinces of Emilia Romagna Region. Following these red tape that precedes the days dedicated to the vote has made me gain experience. I want to remember with gratitude the head of demographic services of the Municipality of Sassuolo, Dr. Giancarla Visconti, for the help and operational councils I still treasure. We often discussed: she was always right, but I learned; I couldn't believe that, to transmit the nominations of list representatives, a JEP couldn't be used. Today, with the measure under consideration, we are also dealing with this lack. The digital signature also avoids the entire procedure of authentication of the subscription of the appointed person. It is a pleasure to note that on a subject as important as technical we have been able to achieve convergence in a very short time. A few weeks have passed since the day I deposited the bill containing a limited text, which, during the first reading examination in the Senate, has been greatly enriched by the contribution of many colleagues who have expanded its objective scope. [[Applause]] We have done well, and we expect our colleagues in the House of Deputies to do so without delay as far as they are concerned. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Vincenzo Garruti, President Roberto Calderoli, Senator Luigi Augussori, Senator Luigi Vitali, Senator Nazario Pagano and all the parliamentary groups who have decided to share the spirit and content of this legislative initiative. I also thank Senator Dario Parrini, who in his time, in the face of my complaints because in another measure the modification that today is perfected in a structural way had a deadline, told me to present a dedicated bill and that he would sign it. I took it seriously, and today we're ready and determined. Administrative simplification, digitisation and cutting the unnecessary bureaucracy cannot and must not have political colors. The incredible technological progress of recent decades allows us and today requires us to exploit all its potential, at the service of the citizens and our institutions. As mentioned above, this draft law, from an amendment concerning the simplification of pre-election procedures concerning the appointment of list representatives by delegates, has seen a considerable extension of its objective scope of application, to include also important simplifications regarding the filing of electoral marks, which can now be done by means of digital format, in non-modifiable vector format or in three copies in paper form. The measure also introduces the possibility for provincial, municipal and metropolitan councillors to carry out the authentications of the signatures of the electoral list presenters without having to communicate their availability. It is also possible to present in digital format the certificate of registration to the electoral lists and the certificates issued by the judicial records. Unanimous was the desire to arrive at the rapid adoption of this draft law, also with a view to the supplementary administrative elections next autumn, for which, moreover, some simplifications had already been envisaged, thanks to the adoption of my amendment to the last decree on the postponement of the electoral round planned for this spring, as I mentioned earlier. Today's result is not obvious. Until the last we fought to overcome some opposition expressed by the Ministry, finding in the end a good point of fall. As representatives of the people who have the honour of sitting in the ranks of this very high assembly, we have a duty to listen to requests from local administrators. By virtue of the principle of subsidiarity of which the territorial authorities are an expression, their demands are those of the citizens and, therefore, of the communities they represent. Therefore, it is our duty to examine them in order to give you, where possible, practical implementation. It is one of our highest commitments, which, like Movimento 5 Stars, we are carrying on without hesitation. This morning Senator Vincenzo Santangelo filed a bill, which I decided to sign with conviction, to intervene on the criminal responsibility that rests on the mayors for the improper omissive crimes. Another instance that I intend to bring to this House soon concerns the possibility of overcoming the rigid limits contained in the single text of the laws on the local authorities' law on the assignment of positions to managers placed on leave. Another battle also concerns the recognition of social security contributions to local administrators who were not registered in any form of social security at the time of their appointment. Moreover, how can we not mention the great commitment made by Deputy Minister Laura Castelli and undersecretary Carlo Sibilia, present in the Chamber at this time, always in the area of territorial authorities? I conclude, Mr President, with a historical reference: it was 1979 and, in his report to the Chambers, one of the major European lawyers of the 20th century, Massimo Severo Giannini, wrote that the State is not a safe and authoritative friend, but an ambiguous, unreasonable and distant creature. Today, more than forty years later, much has changed and with the important regulatory intervention that we are preparing to vote we take a further step towards reducing this distance and making the State a safe and authoritative friend for citizens, but also for our territorial authorities. In conclusion, the model of the Movimento 5 Stars has been schooled and the parties can ask for criminal certificates before the nominations; we will see the facts, there are no more excuses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u69	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u70	The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to thank, in turn, all the senators and those who have participated directly in the drafting of the text. The Lanzi text enabled the senators of all the political forces of the 1st Commission to participate in the restricted committee. It is a text that, in my opinion, has a very high value, because the extreme synthesis is to make it easier for the citizen to participate in the democratic and political life of our country. Even if it is six articles, which may seem like something reductive and simple, they are not at all; they are a great democratic exercise, from which I personally learn, and I believe they can be a working method that teaches the way to bring home concrete results. Many things divide political forces, but in this case there is the intention of all political parties to try in every way to have in their ranks people who can attest to having as their sole interest in democratic participation that of representing citizens. This is also done with the certification of judicial certificates; in this case, we can therefore add documentation without slowing down the timing of the procedure, inserting small technological tools that allow to today to speed up the process of presentation of lists, which we know to be cumbersome and complex. In addition, some aspects are being updated and, above all, thanks to the certified e-mail tool, we are able to speed up the process, which is treated as another, as laid down in Article 5 approved by the Commission, which gives equal dignity to the technological process compared to the physical process, which is represented. The possibility of being a list representative by these two methods, being able to transmit the information to the public administration in this way, opens a very important road, which from here can, in my opinion, have much wider openings. I thank Senator Lanzi, presenter of the measure, the rapporteur, Mr Garruti, with whom there have been continuous exchanges to arrive at today's solution, and all the political forces that have really made themselves available. Believe me: as Senator Pagano pointed out, it is a very good signal when in a few weeks - let us be honest - one of the two branches of Parliament succeeds in such a speedy acceptance of a legislative process. I hope that this will be taken as an example by the House. The government, when it sees this kind of political unity in these issues, clearly can only feel strong about this unity and clearly succeed in getting the better of the political side in interlocutions with the offices and the bureaucratic machine of our country. So I really want to thank you and I hope that the same speed of the Senate can be replicated equally to the House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u72	At this point, as a deadline for tabling amendments, we are setting an hour from now, so by 5.30 p.m. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u75	ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a moment's attention, because this is a matter for us all. Unfortunately, a horrifying fact has happened today in my opinion: on some sites a video was published about the tragedy of the Mottarone cable car, which made me think a lot, a lot, because with it you incur a nightmare that families will continue to live again. You can see when the cab of the cable car arrives at the station: in that while, the cable breaks. You can see, among other things, the faces of little Eitan, of the father and two ladies; then it was corrected on some sites, because I took it from the Telegram application and anyway it was already in wide circulation (it was broadcast on some TVs at national level, where the faces were obscured with bubbles). My question is this: how far does the right of news go? Is this a rule, when often, even on measures related to parliamentary acts, we talk about privacy? There have been many criticisms and many problems with regard to video surveillance in schools and nursing homes; this is a measure wanted by the League, which has been criticized because the privacy of employees is not protected that may sometimes be tainted by criminal events. [[Applause]] With this video there is no respect for the living and the dead. I would ask the Presidency's attention, in order to urge the committees and the agencies in charge, to check how a video that violates privacy could be released on such a matter with images and equipment seized. I wouldn't want to be in the shoes of those family members who will live a nightmare life for years watching this video. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u78	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, next week, on 24 and 25 June, there will be a meeting at the Ministry of Health to address the issue of mental health. It will be an opportunity to discuss a problem that cannot be affected and affected with due seriousness for many years. The last episode of the chronicle, which occurred in Ardea, is before everyone's eyes: it involves a person who perhaps had not even received a completely accurate diagnosis, but it was certainly known his psychological discomfort, to the extent that he had done a mandatory health treatment. However, it is not possible to understand the diagnosis and therefore not even what treatment he had received. What is certain is that he was a person who needed access to the famous services (let's call them mental health or the way we want them) of those centres of taking charge of social distress whose repercussions we know can be very serious, because the price that many people find themselves paying, in these cases, is life. We are faced with a situation in which the psychological discomfort intercepts behaviors that, at this point, can be criminal and which, however, have profound implications from the criminal point of view. At this moment, in Italy we have no tools that hold these two components together: the psychic discomfort and a course that goes beyond what is considered acceptable in the social dimension. We have dismantled all the structures that could have taken care of over time, because they have proved progressively inadequate or lacking in those skills and support linked to actual personnel able to support, support and support these people. I wonder how far we have to let mental health become a point of reference and when, instead, we will be able to remember that it is one of the main objectives of the greatest vision of the National Health System. In fact, everyone knows that internal investment in mental health is absolutely scarce. We know how deep the suffering and discomfort have been, even in time of lockdown, without there being a direct relationship between the Covid and the discomfort, but in fact it has been so; yet, we cannot understand and see, even in terms of investment, a possible solution that looks at the discomfort of people, not only to denounce it, but to take charge of it and, as far as possible, to try to resolve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u81	ANGRISANI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reflect briefly on one of the most dramatic and subtle aspects of this pandemic, at a time when all the media and public attention is focused on vaccinations, often forgetting the despair that so many young people are experiencing. The World Health Organization issued a very strong warning a short time ago and the data was also recently confirmed by Istat: suicide is the second cause of death in children aged 19 to 24. Last week there was a further desperate gesture, that of an eighteen - year - old boy who ingested poison while he was remotely connected with his friends, who encouraged him to make the crazy gesture. In the calculation of risks and benefits, in which children such as Matthew, Paul, Fabio or Said - to name a few - have chosen to put an end to their own existence, the anxiety and loneliness generated by the epidemiological emergency, precluded the possibility of living some moments of carefreeness, have taken over, annihilating all hope of life. They are teenagers or isolated children, victims of abuse or bullying, deprived for a long time of confrontation with other people or a simple date with friends, without recreation and without distractions; therefore, psychological pressure has increased. The isolation and marginalization caused by the pandemic has had a decisive impact on the gradual and unstoppable worsening of the psychiatric conditions in which many young people live. That's why many young people have chosen to end it, coming to prefer death rather than struggle daily against their anxieties and fears. The pediatric doctors have been warning for some time, declaring that there has been an increase in suicide among young people, in the last period, by 30 percent. You are locked in your home, in your room, living the usefulness of every relationship; you are alienated in the world of tablets and smartphones and someone, unfortunately, did not make it. After the emergency, however, it will be even more difficult for some to return to normal; therefore, it is necessary to be careful and vigilant, giving the right attention to even the smallest signal. Many young people will certainly not want to leave the house anyway, because, outside the domestic context, they will no longer feel safe, while we are here to reason on the great powers and on issues that, compared with the dramatic increase in suicides, are of much less importance, marking even more the difference between institutions and real country, between politics and citizenship. It is necessary to ensure adequate protection for households, with the establishment of a socio-economic model that allows more time to be spent with their children. It will be essential to invest in pedagogical and psychological care centres in schools, where free public support for boys and girls with greater difficulty will be provided. Only in this way will we be able to stem a trend in continuous growth and make us find ourselves more prepared to face the challenges and unknowns generated by this pandemic context. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u84	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, today Patrick Zaki is thirty years old in an Egyptian prison where he has been unjustly and illegitimately imprisoned for four hundred and ninety-five days; a huge time, in the absence of trial, in the absence of guilt and evidence of guilt. Arbitrary detention which lasts, like a stylicide, from hearing to hearing; at the last, neither Italian diplomats nor European diplomats were allowed to attend. A detention that is, in fact, a violation of human rights, for Zaki as well as for other hundreds of "prisoners of conscience." Zaki is forced to sleep on the ground, under inhuman conditions, aggravated by the pandemic; a detention that is already a form of torture, a way to annihilate a life, a thought, freedom of ideals and beliefs. A detention to turn off the light on Zaki, to bring down the silence. On the contrary, instead, we must speak out loud, as we return to do today, if we want to save Zaki and if we want to save, with his life, the values of freedom and democracy in which we believe, for which we have fought our constituent Fathers and on which our Republic rests. It is not true that stopping talking about it helps Zaki, because silence can become indifference and indifference is complicit. Our Senate has shown great proof of political strength and moral strength, asking the Government to act urgently for the bestowal of Italian citizenship in Zaki. It is our mobilization, we keep it alive, Ilaria Cucchi wrote today, and she is right. Zaki's name must be taken to every table, in every international confrontation, until it is released. It is a symbolic battle for the credibility of our country. Mr President, looking at Zaki's face, you see the face of Giulio Regeni, because they both represent the same generation of citizens of the world, in love with Italy, with Europe and with Egypt; in love with rights, with the freedom to fight for their own convictions. Talking about Zaki is talking about Giulio. Asking for justice for Zaki means asking for truth and justice for Giulio Regeni, tortured and killed a few kilometers from where Zaki is imprisoned. Mr President, at the last meeting they had, Zaki left his fiancée a heart inlaid with soap, his mother a church inlaid with wood and then a letter to Senator Segre, to thank her for her support; she, reclused in the extermination camps, next to Zaki, who has been in the dark for a year and a half. The wish we make today is that as soon as possible Zaki can meet Liliana and all of us here in the Senate, deliver his letter in person, embrace and embrace, in Bologna, his fellow students and return to being a citizen in a free world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u87	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that the Brothers of Italy Group has deposited an act of direction in order to draw attention to the situation of vaccination against children. Everything that is happening at this moment in our country is mentioned in an atmosphere of uncertainty, indefinability and not reassuring information about parents and those who have to be vaccinated: think only of the obvious perplexities that raises the AstraZeneca vaccine. Faced with this climate, thinking about open days for vaccination of minors is obviously a regrettable thing. The Brothers of Italy Group has deposited an act of direction, which we hope can be shared by the entire Assembly, which submits the matter to the ethics committee of the Higher Institute of Health. In fact, on the dubious ethics of a mass vaccination of minors to protect adults, I believe that at least in doubt we all agree. A second commitment is to stop vaccination to minors at least until the scientific community has collected the case studies and information that will allow the large and small nodes linked to the numerous adverse events of the vaccination campaign to be dissolved. That is what we want to bring to your attention, ladies and gentlemen, and to the attention of the institutions with this act of direction. In the coming days we hope to be able to schedule it and submit it to the debate of this House. We hope that it can become a unitary act, even by making changes - we would miss it - but not by twisting it in substance, to suspend this mass vaccination, which I consider a real hazard on the skin of our young people and our boys under 18. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u88	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-337.ana.u89	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 17 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.48 p.m.
