ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u4	On 15 December 2021, the First Deputy President of the Council of State sent the following letter: Mr President, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 2 of Law No 87 of 11 March 1953, I have the honour to inform you that today the College provided for in Article 2 (b) of the Constitutional Court has elected the President of the Council of State Filippo Patroni Griffi. F.to Franco Frattini. We wish the new Member of the Court good work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u7	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to recall Marco, Roberto and Filippo, the three people who lost their lives under a crane in Turin. Just a few months ago we remembered Luana, impressed by that picture of youth who died for work. My note sheet is white, because I can't find the words today to remember the umpteenth deaths at work. It is white as we call these deaths, the white dead, which are the highest form of human injustice. Philip, Mark and Robert were our brothers, our brothers and sisters, our parents, our children: one of them was only twenty years old. We must stop the country when this happens, but not to commemorate, but to question our consciences every day and do something daily to avoid and avert deaths at work. We have three people a day leaving the house to work and they don't come back. We have to stop the country for this. We have to do a lot, a lot more. As far as controls are concerned, we have increased the inspectors at work. We are discussing the superbonus: we check whether the regulations on the registration of companies in the Chamber of Commerce are correct, we do everything we can. This morning, a big hug and an immense closeness to the families of Marco, Roberto and Filippo for their pain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u8	Senator Parente, thank you. Of course, the Presidency joins in the mourning and remembrance that you have made.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u9	The next item is the joint debate on documents VIII. 7 (Accounting Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2020) and 8 (Projecting Senate internal budget for the financial year 2021). The rapporteur, Senator Pesco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u10	Mr President, like every year the Senate Assembly is examining the acts relating to the internal budget of the institution. This time it is the report of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2020 and the draft budget for the year 2021 that the Presidency Council decided at its meeting on 14 December. Limiting myself to an essential examination of these two accounting documents and starting from the statement for the last financial year, I observe first of all how the total effective expenditure (net of the savings to be paid to the State) has been equal, in 2020, to 483,718,048,80 euros, in decrease of 2,624,178,37 euros regarding the final figure of the financial year 2019. It should also be borne in mind that this reduction in expenditure, being expressed in nominal terms, does not take account of inflation and would therefore be even more marked if it were expressed in real terms. Moreover, Senate revenue shows that the financial envelope has remained unchanged since 2012 to the extent of around 505 million euros. As a result, compared to the budget requested in 2011, of EUR 526,960,500, there is an annual reduction of EUR 21,6 million. The constant reduction in expenditure in recent years has therefore been accompanied by a substantial stability of the main entrance of the Senate, but with the latter settling at a significantly lower level than in the years before the crisis of 2011. With regard to the composition of expenditure, operating expenditure was 54.59 per cent of total expenditure in 2020, compared with 45.41 of social security expenditure, while these two elements remained broadly constant over the years. With regard to the 2021 forecast budget, in addition to the figure already shown of the lower budget required also for the current year, there is a slight adjustment for social security expenditure for the current year compared to the previous year (down 0.09 per cent). However, it should be noted that this amount also includes the amounts set aside as a result of the reductions introduced both for senators' vitality and for employee pension treatment. In particular, it is noted that the savings due to the application of the reform of the calculation of the vitalities approved during the year 2018 were left in a special fund established Prudently until the end of the ongoing process in the internal justice bodies. Also with regard to the application of paragraph 261 of Law No 145 of 2018, which provides for the reduction of pension treatment in excess of certain gross annual amounts, the savings fund on pensions of high amount was established, as established by the same law in paragraph 265. It should also be pointed out that in the past financial year compulsory current expenditure represented as much as 91.20 percent of all Senate expenditure. This aggregate has been decreasing for years and includes savings and costs for senators and former senators, staff in positions of office, in quiescence or outside the administration, as well as all related charges, such as tax and social security charges. There is also a slight decrease over the three-year period 2018-2020 also in relation to current operating expenditure in the strict sense. This aggregate consists of all expenses incurred for the provision of services and support supplies to the functioning of the Senate, such as professional services for the administration, expenses for the activities of the Commissions, costs for IT services, communication, insurance, catering, transport, rental, cleaning and others. Capital expenditure between 2018 and 2020 is also decreasing, from around €2,465,013.75 to €2,777,204.10. Capital expenditure, which is the least significant aggregate in absolute terms among those mentioned above, includes expenditure on the purchase of movable listed property, extraordinary maintenance costs, as well as expenditure on the purchase and conservation of the library's assets and historical archives. In the face of such a marked reduction, expenses such as that recorded since 2012, the challenge has been and still is to make compatible the financial results achieved, which testify the participation of the Senate in the effort to stabilize public finance made in recent years, with the maintenance of a high quality standard of the services provided, all the more in a context that has seen, at least until the end of 2020, a constant reduction of the staff of role of the Administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked Senator Commissioner De Poli to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Pesco for his illustration. Ladies and gentlemen, this year we are preparing to approve the revenue and expenditure accounts for 2020 and the Senate's internal budget for 2021. I would like to thank my colleagues Paolo Arrigoni and Laura Bottici, together with whom we have worked during the last two years in a time of great difficulty due to the Covid, which unfortunately has affected more people even in the Senate Assembly. However, we have worked in an important way to secure both the House and all the environments of the Senate, and we have done so with the prevention offices and with all our offices. In this regard, I would like first of all to thank Dr. Marini, with whom we have tried to give greater security to the senators, but also to all our internal staff and to all the collaborators, with a series of screenings and attentions. [[Applause]] I understand that many times we have had the duty to be a little heavy compared to some colleagues and all people, but we have tried to work for the common good and to make sure our Senate of the Republic and I believe we have succeeded. We intervened by giving the same prescriptions that all Italians had: no privileges, nothing different; I believe that this is another important signal that the Senate wanted to give to all our citizens. To enter immediately into the examination of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2020, the total expenditure of the Senate is 483.718.048,80 euros, down 2.6 million compared to 2020. The trend is always decreasing. There is an important reduction in the Senate's actual nominal expenditure of 7.09 percent over the period 2012 to 2020. This is a trend of attention to public spending that we are following over the years. The expenditure of the Senate is in fact equal to 0.045 of that of the State. On the revenue side, there was a total result in 2020 of EUR 542,905.117.10. This is another important aspect. As can be seen from the documents under consideration, with the decision to approve the statement, it is also ensured to establish a surplus for the financial year 2020 of 59,187,068,30 euros. We have devoted equal attention to supplementary health care (ASIS), paid directly by the senators, who for the financial year 2020 recorded a surplus (this is, therefore, a positive aspect) of 2.5 million euros. As can be seen from the accounts, the action to limit expenditure covers all areas of the administrative machinery and I believe that this is another fundamental aspect. The ratio of operating expenses to social security expenditure remains constant, the first being about 55% and the second being 45%. The aggregate of compulsory current expenditure now accounts for 91.20 per cent of total expenditure and I believe that this is another aspect to be taken into account. I will stop here with regard to the Report and the forecast budget 2021 which, as you know, with respect to the provisional budget approved in December by the President of the Senate presents no change whatsoever. In fact, the technical and financial validity and the numbers are definitely the same as the current ones. The reductions in expenditure of 2021 for the operation of the administrative machinery have an estimated amount of EUR 12 million. The financial weight of the Senate on public finance decreased from 2013 to 2021 by an amount of €322.5 million. This has been made possible by a lower endowment of Palazzo Madama (we have asked for smaller resources of the State, that clearly in the years have accumulated, equal, for every year from 2012 to today, to 21,6 million) and by the savings made every year from 2013 to today (also this year it is 12 million euros), for a total total of 128 million euros. How were these savings achieved? I'm thinking about functional integrations between the House and Senate administrations. We are doing a number of public procedures and competitions together and this creates a fundamental collaboration between the two branches of Parliament and also synergy and cost reduction, having a greater mass than what is being defined. As for the salaries of employees, there is a reduction, from 2012 to today, of 22.45 percent. With regard to social security costs, we have a small negative deviation of 0.09% (they have remained virtually unchanged). As for parliamentary allowances and ancillary competences, there are a number of economies that are estimated to be around EUR 77 million. Again, year after year we are increasing these economies. In 2001, they had a Senate budget of 19%, while today the figure is practically halved as 10%. With my colleagues Arrigoni and Bottici, I would like to point out that we pay invoices to suppliers within 30 days. We stand among the very first, if not the first, for the timeliness of payments in the context of public administration at European level. I believe that at a time of difficulties such as those of these years it is a very positive and important fact. As far as the chapter on human resources is concerned, you know that we are in serious difficulty. Very personal went into quiescence and we no longer had competitions. At last the contests are resumed with the year 2021-2022, both as regards the parliamentary coadjutors, and for the parliamentary assistants. It is necessary to have staff who follow the work of the Commissions and the Assembly, as well as the administrative part. This year several speeches were made in the Chamber, in the Commissions and in the Palaces of the Senate; in particular, there were the modernizations of the audio-video systems of the classrooms of all the Commissions with video conferencing systems. The voting procedure for the vote of confidence has finally been computerized, as you have seen recently. In the spring the 4th Commission's audio-video system will be modernised, which is the last missing one in this process. We have intervened - under the direct supervision of my colleague Mr Arrigoni - to overcome the architectural barriers: the barrier of the 14th has been removed. Commission and now we are working on the 6th and 11th to give access to people with disabilities as well. We have paid particular attention to improving air parts in both the House we are in and the Commission's classrooms. We still have to intervene on some of them in an important way, but we are preparing projects and interventions in such a way as to make the places where we work safer and healthier. We have done a series of interventions on the green politics of the Senate: 90% of the lamps are low consumption, photovoltaic panels have been installed, etc. On the computer infrastructure front, we have intervened with virtualization technologies and cloud technologies, which allow us to work at a distance. The renewal of these infrastructures, which also take into account the green aspects of consumption, has given us the possibility of a savings of 15 million euros from 2016 to today. I believe that this is another aspect in order to have an increasingly 4.0 Parliament, with a whole range of applications, such as the Tabulas app, which allows senators to access parliamentary documents, the 'Senato Media' app and a number of other interventions we are making, including the digital presentation of parliamentary acts, on which Mrs Bottici is further committed to simplifying procedural aspects. Finally, we worked on the implementation of the Senate's web TV, with seven channels simultaneously. Another aspect on which Mrs Bottici is making an important effort is the issue of equal opportunities, to which we intend to pay more and more attention. That is why, in 2022 (even if we are talking about the 2021 budget we are already planning for next year) we are planning an initiative for the protection of women, in particular with a project (which is following Mr Bottici directly) which aims at the inclusion of Afghan women in their life context. If you want to sum up this budget, you can say: save more money to spend better. In fact, on the one hand, we have spared money and, on the other, we have carried out a series of interventions on various sectors to give us all a better chance. I would like to end by thanking my colleagues, Senators Quarries Bottici and Arrigoni, for their collaboration, which sees us every day together to govern the Senate's policies as best they can. I would like to thank the President of the Senate, Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati, for the conduct of the Assembly and for being the figure who follows all aspects. [[Applause]] Thanks again to President Calderoli, who is here with us today, and to all our colleagues. Then I would really like to wish you all a Merry Christmas and a Merry 2022, to each one of you: to your families and to your loved ones [[Applause]] ; to all the staff of the Senate, who in this last year was in turn attentive, along with us, to make life better possible, starting clearly from the secretary general, Dr. Elisabetta Serafin, whom I thank warmly; to the deputy secretaries general, Dr. Federico Toniato and Dr. Alfonso Sandomenico; to all the directors of the services and clearly to the staff everything, really heartily; to the women and men of the State Police, the Arm of the Carabinieri and the firemen, who are here and who guarantee security for all of us [[Applause]] ; and clearly also to those who work in the Finance Guard within the Commissions, so to all the Body that is here with us; finally, certainly not least in importance, to our parliamentary assistants, who guarantee in this House the safety and within the Senate all the procedures that we all know. [[Applause]] So thank you to all of you and good wishes again to you and families. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u12	I declare the joint debate open. Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ordinary expenses of the Library and the Historical Archives of the Senate have been confirmed: this is obviously a source of satisfaction. The most peculiar of the competences of the Commission for the Library and the Historical Archives, which I presided over, however, is to draw up the editorial plan of the Senate. We presented it in June 2019, but the body concerned with its approval, the Presidency Council, has not yet examined it. We enter the last year of the legislature and the press of parliamentary speeches such as those of Banfi, Cossiga, Alma Capiello has not yet been able to take place, because of this failure. I Quaestors have been explicit, since the last legislature (XXI Collegio, 19 June 2014), on the necessity of the contest for the identification of the publisher with which to establish the relationship of co-edition having as object the publication of the volumes of the series of the Historical Archive. It follows that, without the possibility of extending the old publishers and with a ban still to be approved, the editorial activity of the Historical Archives proceeds to excruciate, as for the reprints that meritoriously the President requested for Angelina Merlin or that we have arranged for Emilio Lussu or Herald of Crollalanza, using external necklaces. Another method of supplementary intervention is the co-edition with external subjects, who, participating in the cultural project of valorization of documents of our Archive, declare themselves willing to choose and pay the publisher. We proposed the convention with the State Railways Foundation, but the discussion at the College of Quaestors was postponed. I hope that it will be resumed as soon as possible, in order to allow this important edition. We will propose it again for the volume on the Senators of the Jewish Kingdom, having acquired the consent of the President of the Union of Italian Jewish Communities (UCEI), but we would like guarantees not to find ourselves again in front of a denial of fact. Another consequence of the blockage of the editorial plan was that of course one of the human resources devoted, with great appreciation, to the work of drafting parliamentary speeches was diverted and sent elsewhere, adding to the many secretaries who, hired as historical archivists, carry out tasks in other areas of the administration. This is while the progressive opening to desecration, which took place in July 2020 with the decree of the President of the Senate, involves the management, in the new database of the Archive, of more than a million scanned images only for the Commission massacres. Hence my request that the next series of competitions also include the archival professionalism or, in any case, a way to reconstruct the initial number of units of the period of the presidency Pera. However, it is not all up to us; even if we were able to hesitate in rapid times the request for 130,000 pages to be desecrated from Mr Casson, the ordinary mode of activation of the hairs appears conspicuously inadequate. That is why we are waiting for the Council Presidency to respond to the proposal for a new and easier way of examining applications for declassification. In the meantime, we have given instructions to implement in the Senate the agenda approved in the 7th Commission on 23 November last on archival secrecy. I would also remind you that the budgetary constraints have led to remuneration only with honorary title of advisors those who, dedicating time and energy, help those who pay private funds to inventory them and then make them consultable according to the system of archival management present in the Senate. This method, totally free of charge, delays the transfer of private funds to users; it should therefore be restored by the College of Quaestors the greater availability that was dedicated to this purpose in the past legislation to the conclusion of contracts of acquisition for consideration. To conclude, I want to say a word about the plaque on the courtyard of honour; if the monarchy made Italy, the Republic has completed the pactum societatis with the promise of greater social justice. I have asked repeatedly and I ask here for an iconographic completion of that front of the courtyard with references to the Republic and the Constitution. I expect the Quaestors to be sensitive to this proposal and to give a cultural breakthrough to their action in the last year of their term of office. On my behalf, the Commission will, by the means at its disposal, make the most of its archival funds and those which, in synergy with other cultural institutions, are helping to make known. This is the case of Matteotti's processes, whose restoration by the State Archives of Rome will be the subject of an exhibition that we will be performing in the Senate in the first half of next year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Trentacoste. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u15	Mr President, the G3 agenda, which I wanted to bring to the attention of this House, aims to regulate the working relationship between Members of Parliament and their respective collaborators in order to put an end to the long-standing issue of the contractual framework of the latter. Despite the fact that the Chambers make available to each Member of Parliament sums intended for the reimbursement of expenditure for the exercise of his mandate, it is noted in Parliament that some of the staff have no regular contract and that the management of such employment relationships is not always clear. This is not conceivable, both because of the dignity of the worker and because of the lack of transparency, which is demanded of the political world and the institutions by the public. There is no specific contractual framework and in fact parliamentary collaborators are treated as employees of professional studies. It is necessary to protect the professional figure of the parliamentary collaborator, even more after the cut of the parliamentarians, which will result in an increase in the workload for individuals, through clear and transparent regulation that determines the essential content of contracts concluded both from the economic and the regulatory point of view. I'm inviting senators. He was asked to submit to the Senate Presidency a proposal to reach the full recognition of the figure of the parliamentary collaborator, taking as a model the solutions adopted by many European countries and the European Parliament, in compliance with the following principles: the administrative and financial management of the positions of parliamentary collaborators is brought back to the administration of the Senate, without prejudice to the trust nature of the employment relationship and the duration of the collaboration contract, linked as a maximum term to the duration of the parliamentary term and the parliamentary mandate; the establishment of an item in the budget of the Senate of the Republic bound and intended exclusively for the remuneration of parliamentary collaborators by contract; the identification of specific contractual typologies and relative remuneration bands, mutual as for the collaborators of the senators who are part of the Presidency Council or the Presidents of the Commission, as well as the discipline of the offices of direct collaboration of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Ministries. Colleagues, today authoritative national newspapers call into question Parliament, Members of Parliament and this institution, which is debating such an important passage. With regard to parliamentary collaborators, I think it is time to clarify this point, ensuring that no form of potential illegality is found in the parliamentary institutions. I therefore call on the quaestors, in whom I put my utmost trust, to ensure that action is taken to resolve this long-standing problem. I hope that there will also be a path shared with the House of Deputies, which will finally give full dignity and recognition to those who accompany us every day in our work and parliamentary action. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u16	The joint debate is closed. I call on the Commissioner to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have spoken. In particular, I address Senator Marilotti, with regard to a whole series of situations within the Library, on which in 2022, before the end of the legislature, we will see how to intervene to give answers. With regard to Senator Trentacoste, who has presented an agenda, as well as Mr De Falco and Mr Paragon, as you know, we are working closely with our colleagues in the House to give a single intervention solution in relation to parliamentary collaborators. As you said, Senator Trentacoste, since 2023, as a result of the new reform, the cut of the collaborators will take place. On this point, we are studying together to give a regulatory aspect that provides that the employment relationship continues to exist directly between senator and collaborators and is characterized by a trust nature - clearly, because it must be - but that all the burdens on the employer are assumed by the institution of the Senate, which would carry out this type of activity. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the proposal in question has long been the subject of careful analysis by the College, which is sensitive to this problem and is convinced that a solution must be found in the next parliamentary term, obviously within the limits of the current budgetary availability, since it cannot be exceeded. As I said before, this issue is also being discussed in the other branch of Parliament, where similar agendas have also been presented. The intention of the College is to seek a more appropriate solution, in agreement with colleagues from the Chamber of Deputies and its Bureau, in such a way as to make intervention in this area even if necessary. As far as the agendas for the G5 and G6 are concerned, there is a whole series of premises, but I leave them to the documents, so that they can be annexed to the Report, and I will not dwell on them. At this point, we will ask colleagues to withdraw their agendas. Leaving aside the premises, which are clearly diversified, we call for the regulatory part to be reworded as we have already indicated. If we did not accept the rewording, the opinion would remain opposed, we would vote and decide the sovereign assembly. Senator Trentacoste should have the text proposed, as well as the Presidency, so we can read it: this is our indication of the rewording of the agendas which, in principle, are all the same, i.e. they represent the problem of our parliamentary collaborators.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u18	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u19	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u20	I ask Senator Trentacoste if he will accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by Senators Quaestors.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u21	Yes, Mr President, I accept the proposal for a reformulation, and I strongly urge the quaestors to see this in the light of the end of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u22	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agendas of the G1, G2, G4, G5 and G6 will not be put to the vote. As the G3 agenda has been adopted (text 2) it will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u25	Coal (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very briefly and will do so in order to declare the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour of the two measures: the report of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2020 and the Senate's internal budget for the financial year 2021. First of all I would like to thank both the President of the Senate Alberti Casellati and the College of Senators Quaestors for the excellent work done with dedication and sense of the institutions. I would also like to take account of the process and the road that has been taken for some years now to rationalise the expenditure of the Senate, but above all the quality of the Senate, in accordance with the principle of economic efficiency, but also efficiency. Ours is an institution that needs to work best for the competences that are assigned to us. This is particularly relevant in terms of rationalising administrative activity in order to achieve the objectives identified in the policy framework. I would like to stress this result even more with regard to the ratio to the quality of expenditure. I would like to focus here on two aspects in particular: a first aspect concerns the significant reduction, as happened in the previous period 2012-2019, of the Senate budget. The reduction since the beginning of the last parliamentary term is over €190 million. This modus operandi assumes, in my opinion, an important significance: it means that the containment of expenditure does not happen sporadicly, only for this year, but is taking on a structural and systematic character. This aspect is of no small importance, given that it invests the entire institution as a whole and reverberates its effects also outside it. Closely related to this specific profile, as my colleague Mr De Poli pointed out in his report, is the progressive reduction in the financial weight of the Senate on public finance, the result of worthy choices, which have been constantly developed over these years. This is a weight on public finance which has been significantly reduced (for more than EUR 300 million): this reduction, as has already been pointed out, is precisely the result of a series of savings that have been made during the period in question. The reduction of expenditure also covered parliamentary allowances and ancillary competences, with a decrease of 77 million euros compared to trend dynamics. The percentage of expenditure on senators' allowances in relation to the Senate budget has almost halved, from 2001 to 2021, from 19 to 10 percent. Finally, two notes on the reserve funds, the one mandatory, that of Law No 145 of 2018 for the reduction of pension treatment in excess of certain amounts, which therefore goes to constitute a specific savings fund, and the other concerning social security costs, in application of the reform of 2018 for the reduction of the vitalities, established in a prudential and precautionary manner pending that the procedure within the courts ends; this also seems to me an intelligent choice in financial management. I would just like to say a few words on the subject of the individual items. It is noted that the main deviations from the 2020 forecast are the result of an increase in the allocation made necessary for the establishment of new Committees of Inquiry, for which, as we know, the rules of establishment have provided for the corresponding allocation of expenditure to the Senate of the Republic. I would like to stress this important aspect, because the justification for the deviation, in this case, lies precisely in the reasons of public interest expressly mentioned by the constitutional dictation, in Article 82. Allow me to make one final comment. The unblocking of the turnover, which we had longed for last year, has indeed occurred, despite the difficulties that have characterized the competitive procedures in these months of pandemics. I would therefore like to hope for an acceleration of new recruitments, so that the staff of our offices will be supported as soon as possible in an adequate and sufficient way to guarantee a linear activity for the exercise of the functions that are assigned to us, therefore to give the utmost authority to the tasks that the Senate is called to carry out. I would like to end by thanking President Casellati, the College of Senators Quaestors. I would like to thank Dr. Serafin, who carries out his work as Secretary General with passion and dedication, without ever sparing himself, as well as the Vice Secretary General of the Senate. I would also like to thank Dr Sassoli for his valuable and always attentive contribution to the work of this House. Thanks also go to the directors of the Services, to the officials of the Commission and above all, in this particular period, to Dr Marini, who supported us with his professionalism in the very difficult months of pandemics. A thank you also goes to the Vice Presidents who always assist us with patience. Finally, a warm thanks to all the employees and employees of the Senate for the high level of professionalism with which they support us daily and, I say, "support us" in our activities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u28	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, we are here every year for an organisational and functional review of the work we do in the Senate. We come from a reflection that started last year, when we started to deal with the first steps necessary to face the pandemic, adopting those behaviors with which we tried to continue to give our contribution to the country, doing what we had to do. I believe that we have succeeded in a very satisfactory way, thanks to the commitment of the College of Senators Quaestors, in addition to that of the staff of Dr. Marini, who together have arranged to identify the procedures that have allowed us to attend safely the Senate. Often, when we talk about the pandemic, we repeat the phrase: "Nothing will be the same as before." Then I wonder how the Senate and our work in the Senate will change after the pandemic. In fact, I believe that we must not only reason in organizational terms, but, after this experience, also to evaluate the quality of our work. The pandemic did not only force us to enter the closed places with the green pass, to make us measure the temperature, to disinfect our hands and to keep the mask, but it has led us to live a period of institutional commitment very different and extraordinary, because the Senate - like the whole country - has been subjected to an activity of decree of urgency by the Government that has substantially modified the working times of our institution and those of the senators and groups. I do not know if I understand: it is not only a matter of organization and how we are in the Senate, but also of the quality of the work that we carry out here. After the experience of the Covid-19, we must look at our work within the Senate with different criteria and understand the conditions that allow us to do quality institutional, parliamentary and political work in this institution. On the one hand, there is the issue of modernisation, re-functionalisation and digitisation, that is, of all those new garrisons and the devices that we must put in place to address the new challenges of participation and representation within the institutions; on the other hand, there is a need to think about the conditions that we need to ensure in order to give quality to our work. The criterion of savings may have reached the bottom of its uncritical declination and I would say almost dogmatic. Today we have to measure costs according to the quality of work. I believe that the resources to be allocated to the Groups in the next parliamentary term cannot be less; I know that a table has already been opened for comparison with the Quaestors, because we have human resources and competences. A logic of cost reduction and the number of Members cannot lead to a loss of quality and the ability to give quality to our work. I stress these aspects, because the work that has been done over the years has been very important and decisive in order to give credibility, in the time we have lived, to the institution in which we are. Therefore, I would like to thank the College of Quaestors, President Alberti Casellati, the Presidency Council, Secretary General Serafin, Vice-Secretarys Toniato and Sandomenico and all the employees of the Senate, for without their cooperation this path, if not shared, could hardly have reached the end. Instead, the work carried out has made it possible to value the sharing of objectives, which have been achieved together. But now we have to make a qualitative leap: get off the track of the cost reduction criterion and move on to that of the quality of the work that must be done by the Senate, even under difficult conditions. This year we lived rhythmically from the exit of the decree-laws, we had lower times and often could not develop a normal parliamentary activity, linked to bicameralism (which I remind you will exist also in the next legislature). Therefore, we have worked, as often resonates in this House, with the formula of alternating mono-chamberism. I believe we must give ourselves the resources and the organization to work in a better way, also respecting the constitutional dictation in the dynamics of the relationship between the two chambers. I don't know how long Covid's gonna last, but I hope little. I hope that the responsibility which we have assumed here as parliamentarians, but which the Italian citizens are also taking over these months to cope with and stem the pandemic, will continue and give us final and decisive results in a short time. Today, however, we are experiencing a situation that does not give us certainties for the future and, therefore, we will probably have to continue to act against measures that will force us to keep pace. I believe that these are all elements that must make us, the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors reflect in order to imagine a future in which, with fewer numbers and the reorganization that is being discussed in the Commission, the situation is being tackled in a positive and effective way. We must be able to imagine a better way of working than this year. I welcome the work done and the progress made so far, but in my opinion today we must change the criteria and make a different reasoning. I thank everyone for the work done and of course the contribution of the Democratic Party Group will always be positive, constructive and available to develop such reasoning. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u31	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. We spent all night in the Budget Committee. We have been called on to vote on the Senate budget, but now President Pesco tells us that we are back in the Commission to vote. I would like to understand how we can split up and vote here on the Senate budget and on the state budget in the Commission. I would also ask my colleagues in the majority to put some order, because the vote on the Senate budget could also have been postponed. We have decided to interrupt the work of the Commission and we are now here. Mr President, it is not possible to split up. We try to do everything; we accept the absolutely unprecedented timing of a majority voting all night on the state budget in the Commission, but we must allow ourselves to vote on the Senate budget without being absent from the Commission. President, I'm relying on you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u32	Let us check the progress of work in the budget committee to see whether or not we are voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u35	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, in expressing our strong vote in favour as LEU-Ecosolidali, I would like to thank the Senators Quaestors and all those in the Administration (the officials, the employees and the Secretariat-General) who have taken care of the budget for the result achieved this year. It is never easy to cut the costs of such a complex company without having a negative impact on the life and quality of the work of employees, whether administrative staff or senators. The numbers speak for themselves. And the right reflections of my colleague Collina impose more and more on us, taking note of the necessity and obligation to live with this stone feast, with the pandemic, to walk together new paths. I used to say numbers. The Senate has saved more than 330 million euros in the last two legislatures. Of these, 194 million came from the lower budget by the State and 128 million from other savings for its operation. Over the last fourteen years, the trend in the relationship between the actual expenditure of the Senate and State spending has always been decreasing, from 0.083 percent to 0.045 percent. The reduction of expenditure concerns, in particular, senators' allowances and other ancillary competences (less than €77 million) and their relationship with the Senate budget, which is more than halved in the last 20 years. There is also to be considered the reduction of staff expenditure, which has led to a saving of more than 22%; numbers resulting from the work of constant rationalization of administrative activity with a view to quality, always distinguishing between operating costs, whose containment of expenditure took place in a cross-cutting way, and strictly social security charges, which remain almost unchanged. Additional savings could come, for about 12 million euros for 2021, from the integrations of the Administrations of Chamber and Senate, which allowed the birth of the pole of parliamentary documentation and of the parliamentary computer center, as well as the strengthening of the library center. This year too, the zeroing of reserve funds confirms the issue of transparency, with all the detailed expenditures item by item, planned, verified, reported. The deviations from the 2020 forecast have, in fact, concerned expenditure aimed at making Parliament's work even more efficient and, above all, more in-depth. These are the expenditures for the activities of the Commissions of inquiry, which have increased in number, and the necessary adaptation of the structures of the computer systems. To this is added the lease of the spaces necessary for the performance of the contests previewed for 2021. There's still work to be done. Let us think only of the opportunities for ecological savings and efficiency resulting from the use of technologies. In short, the hope is that future savings can also be combined with quality standards that must necessarily maintain such a high institution. That is why, on behalf of the Misto-Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidali component, I express our strong vote in favour. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the House a merry Christmas. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u36	Senator Ciriani, found that his request did not lead to unanimity on the other hand, the Presidency asked the 5th Commission to suspend the vote. I call on colleagues who still have to speak in an explanation of vote to do so as soon as possible, so that we can continue our work in the 5th Commission as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u39	Toffanin (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank the College of Quaestors for their rigorous and quality work since the beginning of the legislature; the President of the Senate, Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati; the Secretary-General, Dr Serafin; the Deputy Secretary-General, Dr Toniato, and through them all the Administration, the Presidency Council and all the staff, who work daily with commitment to ensure the best functioning of the Senate system. [[Applause]] A figure emerges from the report of the commissioner De Poli: from 2013 to today the Senate has managed to realize total spending savings of 322.5 million euros, proof of the great balance, rationality and common sense with which the Upper House was administered. [[Applause]] It should be remembered that the work carried out by the College of Quaestors has two great objectives: to ensure the best functioning of the legislative machine, while at the same time making our institution, the Senate, a transparent glass house for citizens. As we have heard, the numbers speak for themselves: 194.4 million less budgeted by the State since 2013 to date, to which are added additional savings of more than 128 million, of which an estimate of 12 million savings only with reference to 2021. They demonstrate how this administrative machine is carried out with competence and rigour, even at a time that has been and continues to be of great difficulty for the whole country because of the emergency health from Covid-19. [[Applause]] Speaking of health care, our thoughts go to Dr. Federico Marini, whom we thank for the constant availability and valuable competence. [[Applause]] The Senate, in fact, even in the heart of the pandemic, during last year's lockdown, has never stopped working. Senators Quaestors have been able to implement all the necessary measures to ensure - on the one hand - the continuity of legislative activity and, on the other hand, health and health protection, to which they have contributed by Parliament, by staff and by those who operate the institution on a daily basis in accordance with the rules. The Senate has shown that it is able to adapt to the emergency situation with timeliness, strategic choices and with investments also technological. The management of the Senate has proved to be virtuous, even in the most difficult emerging phase in which it has been more complicated to be able to balance the necessary savings with the proper functioning of the legislative machine. There is always the risk, in fact, that, pursuing the objective of cutting costs, we leave the quality of work behind, even more so in the moments of crisis that have involved and are unfortunately still involving the management of our institution. The data that have been recalled by Senator Questore elder shows, instead, that we are in the presence of an action of careful monitoring of the flows of expenditure, decreasing over time. I would like to point out that the reduction in expenditure has covered all areas of administrative life and I would remind you that, since the beginning of the last parliamentary term, only in terms of parliamentary allowances and ancillary competences, the estimate of expenditure savings stands at EUR 77 million, a significant figure. As I have already pointed out, however, citizens are interested not only in the savings but also in the efficiency of our institutions. This is why it is important to improve and improve the performance of internal organisational processes. I am thinking, for example, of the time limits for payment of invoices to suppliers, which takes place within 30 days in accordance with Community provisions. I am thinking of the fact that reducing spending economies means doing so intelligently and rationally, not giving up investment, with a view to looking to the future. For these reasons - as Senator Commissioner De Poli has well illustrated - we believe that it was important and important to invest on key factors such as digital and technological innovation: the renewal of IT infrastructure has led to a saving of 15 million euros, without forgetting the fundamental aspects such as green policies - we have heard it - attention to the environment, the contrast to architectural barriers; therefore all the interventions made to allow access not only to Palazzo Madama, but also to others, to everyone. Finally, but certainly not for importance, attention should be paid to policies for equal opportunities and the world of culture, which saw our institution open to events and monthly meetings promoted by our President Alberti Casellati. We expect radical changes in the near future, starting with a reduction in the number of Members and, consequently, the number of Commissions and responsibilities of the Rules of Procedure. We will move towards a new arrangement for the Mixed Group, with greater correspondence between lists of elected members and parliamentary groups. The internal budget of the Senate will have to take account of all this, so that savings will continue to correspond to the efficiency and effectiveness of legislative action, as well as to the representation and even more dynamic link between the two chambers. It is a challenging path in which our Quaestors are already involved in this last part of the legislature. We thank them again for their work and for what they will continue to do in this very delicate and complex passage. De Poli senior commissioner, Bottici commissioners, Arrigoni commissioners, thank you for the work and the willingness to solve the small and great problems of the life of all of us in the institution. [[Applause]] The Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC will vote strongly in favour of the 2020 report and the draft internal budget of the Senate 2021. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u42	I would once again like to call for a summary because, until we vote, the Budget Committee cannot meet and proceed with the examination of the state budget. BORGHESI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. We are aware that also for 2021, as for last year, the activity of the Senate has been characterized and influenced by the emergency health Covid-19, which has led to change the organization of the work, to accelerate on innovation and digitalization and to move many attentions and energies from ordinary activities towards extraordinary and unexpected ones. I recall the introduction of the green pass to access the Senate offices from October 15th and the super green pass from December 6th, for participation in institutional and cultural initiatives, conferences and press conferences. We certainly appreciate the positive figures contained in the budget documents. Less than 322.5 million were spent on the operation of the Senate from 2013 to this year. The actual expenditure of this branch of Parliament is constantly decreasing over the total state expenditure, reaching 0.045 per cent (as can be seen from the 2020 report). There is a progressive reduction in expenditure on the parliamentary allowance of us senators, which, compared to the budget of the institution to which we have the honour of belonging, has risen from 19% in 2001 to 10% in 2021, almost by half. It is also appreciated the fact that having to face the emergency Covid has not caused any overtaking of the expenditure items of the budget, which - especially in these two difficult years past - is a positive and necessary signal towards the economic system of our country in difficulty, but with great desire to restart despite the pitfalls of dear energy. Of course, coming to the end of the year, at the end of the year, to vote in the Senate Chamber, the 2021 budget is excessive, although I know that the College of Quaestors had fired him for a long time. I trust that next year - for which we all hope that the problems and consequences of the Covid-19 for our country can really be mitigated - we can proceed to the approval of the budget in the first months. We must do this because of a matter of seriousness of the institution we represent, since we administer public money and above all for the respect we owe to the citizens. I conclude by announcing the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, but not before thanking the College of Quaestors and especially the staff of the Senate administration, starting with the Secretary General, Dr. Elisabetta Serafin; the two Deputy Secretaries General, Dr. Toniato and Dr. Sandomenico; the Service Managers and all the staff. I would like to say a special thank you to Dr Marini who, together with the Quaestors De Poli, Arrigoni and Bottici, since the beginning of the emergency Covid, has put in place many measures to combat the virus, guaranteeing - on the one hand - health security to prevent and control the contagion of us senators and of the President of the Senate and - on the other hand - the legislative continuity of the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u45	FENU (M5S). Mr President, what we are about to vote on is a draft internal budget which - as emerged from the Quaestor Senators' report - is in line with the process of rationalising the expenditure of this institution, which has been going on for several years and which aims to make it more efficient and less expensive; a rationalization of expenditure which, for the second consecutive year, has had to take into account the pandemic situation and the resulting rules of conduct and conduct of work, both for the House and for the Commissions. With this in mind, the increase in expenditure on so-called IT services, which is necessary to make our infrastructure safer and consequently our work, is fully part of the mission of making this institution more efficient, as well as more modern. Having guaranteed the right compromise between activities in presence and remotely allowed us not to lose contact, indispensable and irreplaceable, with the real country, allowing us to continue to hear associations, committees and representatives, thus making decisions with greater awareness. For what has just been said, I would like to thank all the staff of the Senate, as well as the College of Senators Quaestors, for their unceasing work in organizing our activities and carrying out them safely. A personal thank you to Dr. Marini, who in recent years, but especially in the last year, has shown great willingness and sensitivity to everyone, regardless. [[Applause]] Looking into the immediate future, there are many organisational and regulatory challenges that we must continue to face. With the end of this legislature, ordinary or anticipated, the new Senate will be composed of fewer members, but the demands for development, growth and resolution of the problems that will come from the country and that are the basis of our daily work will remain unchanged. A smaller number of senators, therefore, will have to bear a workload equal to or greater than what we all share today. With this in mind, 2022 is the last useful year in which we can intervene, both in the regulatory and budgetary fields, to ensure that future senators, offices and parliamentary assistants are able to successfully face the very delicate challenge. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Movimento 5 Star Group is in favour and thanking once again the entire staff of the Senate for the work they do every day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u48	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, thank you for the time you have given me the floor. Brothers of Italy also appreciate the development of these years of reducing the spending of the Senate. I remember that if the dynamics of general government spending had followed that of the Senate, now we would have problems of overabundance and knowing where to allocate the extra money we have saved, instead of increasing the public debt. We know that the dynamics are very different - for goodness' sake - but surely the Senate has set a good example, particularly in the last two years, in which the emergency from Covid-19 required a further effort, without this having a negative impact on the balance of the budget. What matters most, despite the emergency, is that the Senate could continue to work. We always remember that, although someone had written differently, the Senate is one of the institutions that continued to work even in the period of stronger closures, when most of the other activities were firm, as it was right that it did, precisely because there was an emergency. But this has required a special effort and must be proudly vindicated, knowing that it has done our duty. All this was possible thanks, of course, to the great work of the Senate staff, for which thanks go to the entire staff, in particular to the Secretary General, Dr. Serafin, and to the Deputy Secretaries General Toniato and Sandomenico. Of course, thanks go to Senators Quaestors De Poli, Bottici and Arrigoni - I quote them in order of seniority - to the Presidency of the Senate, represented here by Vice-President Calderoli, and to the Presidency Council. I believe that the important thing in all this is that the Senate can do its work, very important and fundamental, entrusted to it by the Constitution, with sobriety but with efficiency. This is our first task and we focus on it. And, thanks to the support that the structures give us, we can carry it forward effectively. Last but not least, I would like to thank Dr. Federico Marini, senior doctor of the Senate, who, although particularly under pressure during the pandemic period, has always been a great resource for this institution. [[Applause]] Therefore, Brothers of Italy will of course vote in favour of the report and the draft internal budget. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u49	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2020 (Doc. VIII, No 7). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2021 (Doc. VIII, No 8). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u52	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, I have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u53	We will indicate in the report that he intended to vote in favour, as announced by Senator Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u54	I would ask Senator Pesco, President of the Budget Committee, to report on the progress of work on draft law No 2448.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u55	Mr President, we will soon finish our work in the Commission. So, in the afternoon, we should be ready to start the general discussion. I would ask the rapporteurs for confirmation. I think 3:30 is a proper time.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u56	If there are no comments, I shall suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10:52 a.m. and resumed at 16:02 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u57	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2448.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u60	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to make a proposal to the House. Of course, everyone knows that the marathon in the Budget Committee has ended - fortunately - and that we are therefore about to start the general discussion with the rapporteurs. My proposal would provide - if this is possible and of course the agreement of all the Leaders - for us to continue the general debate today, but not to close it, because many would like to intervene, but, having done the marathon, perhaps they would like to do it a little more clearly. I therefore call for this possibility to be given, namely that the general debate should go on and then, at some point, that it may be interrupted, so that it can continue on tomorrow's day. In the meantime, should the Commission conclude the examination of Decree-Law 152 of 2021 (on the PNRR) and bring it to the attention of the Assembly, pending the maxi mum amendment to the maneuver, which will probably arrive on Thursday, I propose to examine it before the maneuver itself. This would allow us to buy time, not to have those long waiting times that usually occur when you expect the maxi amendment (this I say from personal experience), so as to finish examining the important measures that are currently being examined by the Senate. Of course, this needs two options (preferably at least two authorisations): firstly, that we can start the general discussion and then interrupt it and move on to another subject, which would be the examination of Decree-Law 152 of 2021; secondly, it is clear that all the Leaders agree. I leave this intervention to the record. After that, the group leaders will speak with the Presidency to see how to proceed and whether this proposal can be interesting, so as to arrive at conclusions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u61	Mr Romeo, it seems to me very reasonable that you should consider whether, on the contrary, you should conclude the whole general debate and then go to tomorrow. In any case, since not all the Group presidents are here now, I would like to begin the general discussion, asking them to carry out a consultation on the short lines involving all the groups and, above all, the opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u64	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I have listened to Mr Romeo's proposal and you have now added a few elements. There is no doubt that there is a need for a passage, if not at the Conference of the Leaders, between the Presidents of the Groups. I want to anticipate - I say this calmly, but also firmly - that the Brothers of Italy Group does not agree with the proposal made. In fact, we agree with the proposal for a general discussion involving and reasoned on the draft budget law (i.e. between today and tomorrow) to bring contributions, but not - in the meantime - to fill the void by examining the decree on the PNRR. I do not want to open a polemic wound on how we have come here and therefore I will say nothing, but we believe that the PNRR deserves attention and not haste, with adequate time for discussion and discussion. In the economy of the available time, given the rough path, known to all, that has brought us so far, we therefore believe that the theme is worthy of being addressed after Christmas. This is our position which we will then reiterate in the seats of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice to the position expressed by Senator Rauti, I would like to give time to all the Groups to consult briefly and then, at the appropriate time, to resume the debate. In the meantime, let's proceed with our work. The rapporteurs, Senators Pesco, Rivolta and Errani asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. [[Comments.]] I did not miss the absence of the representative of the Government in this House, but we prefer to start by knowing that, having already urged him, he is on his way. I am also saying this in order to take account of the very hard work done in the Commission by all the senators. If the representative of the Government does not arrive promptly, as he has been urged to do, we will interrupt the work. I call the rapporteur, Senator Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must say that I am very pleased with the good work done in the Commission together with my colleagues, which ended a few minutes ago. Thanks to the help of all, starting from the offices, we were able to complete the work in a sufficiently short time to meet the commitments imposed by public accounts. So we are now in the Chamber to discuss the draft budget law and allow me once again to thank everyone very much, starting with my colleagues and offices. I am very happy for the experience I have gained with my fellow rapporteurs, which has been truly innovative. Every time you learn something and I will treasure it for the rest of my professional experience here in the Senate. Coming to the merits of the draft State budget bill for the financial year 2022, I bore you with some numbers. The draft law is divided into two sections, as we know well, according to the law of accounting and public finance: the first sets out the financial framework annually and provides for the annual regulation of the quantities provided for by the legislation in force, in order to adapt its financial effects to the objectives. It contains, for each year of the three-year reference period, the quantitative measures necessary to achieve the policy objectives of public finance, defined at macroeconomic level by the Update Note to the Document on Economics and Finance (NADEF), i.e. the enclosure within which we must stand. The second section highlights, for each programme, the financial effects arising from the provisions contained in the first section, the budget under existing legislation and changes not determined by regulatory innovations. These include financing, refinancing and reprogramming of revenue and expenditure. The public finance maneuver for the three-year period 2022-2024, arranged with the draft budget law, consists of the changes and regulatory innovations of the first section of the draft budget law and of the financing, refinancing and reprogramming contained in the second section. The maneuver also includes the effects of Decree-Law No 146 of 2021, the so-called tax decree-law. The draft budget law is consistent with the public finance policy objectives set out in NADEF 2021 and approved by the Chambers with appropriate parliamentary resolutions. The Note sets a programmatic level of net debt in relation to GDP of 5.6% in 2022, 3.9 in 2023 and 3.3 in 2024; it is therefore a little higher in 2022 and gradually drops to 3.3, bringing us back to pre-crisis values. The corresponding level of the net balance to be financed from the State budget will increase to €203 billion in 2022, to €180.5 billion in 2023 and to €116.8 billion in 2024. The net balance to be financed from cash will be able to increase to 280 billion in 2022, to 245.5 billion in 2023 and to 174 billion in 2024. I am in favour of the area of competence. As a result of the measures adopted, revenue is expected to increase by approximately €2.2 billion in 2022, by around 0.5 billion in 2023 and a reduction by about €2 billion in 2024. Expenditure - and this is a substantial figure of budgetary manoeuvre - increased by around 47.8 billion euros in 2022, 53 billion euros in 2023 and 38.1 billion euros in 2024. The final expenditure for 2022 amounts to approximately EUR 829.9 billion. Current expenditure amounts to 605.6 billion, while capital expenditure amounts to 147.9 billion. Overall, the measures included in the draft budget are related to the following areas of action: reduction of tax and contributory pressure, growth of investment for work and family, reordering of legislation on social shock absorbers, health care, school and many others. I am thinking above all of the first two, namely the reduction of the tax burden and the growth of investment. Article 2 is very interesting because it brings the famous EUR 8 billion to reduce the tax burden. Then, thanks to proposals from the Government approved in the Commission, the innovations on tax rates for the levy have been defined, which have reduced the tax burden for most Italian citizens; this is the famous reduction in rates, followed by a reduction in the contributory burden for many citizens in the lower income groups. Article 3 postpones the effectiveness of the so-called plastic tax and the so-called sugar tax established by the Budget Act until 1 January 2023. Article 4 reduces VAT on women's hygiene products. Article 5 changes the governance of revenue collection: it is very important in order to improve the relationship between citizens and those managing collection. Article 6 is very important because it provides for the exemption of stamp duty and secretarial rights for personal certificates issued online. Article 9 extends the superbonus measure. When the draft budget law was adopted in the Council of Ministers, some of us, including many of us, were puzzled at the fact that the superbonus was being reduced somewhat, but thanks to the intervention we have been able to do in the Commission, we have brought it back to an appropriate level, especially with regard to its duration. It has been extended, throughout 2023, also to single-family houses, has been removed the roof of the ISEE, has been removed the bond of the first house for single-family houses, has been removed the bond of CILA, which was to be presented last year. In short, we have managed to make many innovations, which will allow many citizens who have a single home to do the work. The only a little tight constraint - we must remember - is to be able to do at least 30% of the work by June 2022. We know that companies are already full of work and that there are few scaffolding; but let's say that, if a person is smart and relies on competent technicians, he will probably be able to start work and make his house energy efficient through the superbonus 110 percent. The ultimate objective of this measure is to actually be able to pollute less, burning less fuel to heat your home; it is a goal compatible with all international and European targets of reducing gaseous emissions into the atmosphere to combat climate change. This is a very important thing. Let us turn to Article 10, which regulates the tax credit for investment in research and development; it is very important for the ecological transition, for technological innovation 4.0 and for other innovative activities. Article 11, which is also very important, provides for the authorisation of expenditure relating to the granting of state aid granted under the concessionary measure called Nuova Sabatini, which is very important for those who have a company, because it allows them to innovate by downloading some of the financing charges on the public, in the sense that part of the interest is paid for the financing, which is very important. Article 12, which is also very important, provides for the following measures: the provision of a revolving fund for Italian companies operating on foreign markets, while the provision of the integrated promotion fund is increased by 150 million euros. This is very important, because our companies need above all to structure themselves, to better present themselves on foreign markets and to offer their products and services in an appropriate way, especially as regards competition with foreign companies. I'd stop here. I made a small excursus about economic and financial measures to the benefit of families, as far as ecobonus is concerned, and businesses. There is much more in the draft budget law. There are three of us, so each of us will talk about a few different measures. We are here to listen to what you have to propose and, above all, what you have been able to propose and to get the Commission to approve. Thanks again to everyone and I'm staying here. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u67	Before continuing with the speeches of the other rapporteurs, I would like to inform the House that tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., the Conference of the Leaders is convened to decide on the continuation of the work, on the understanding that, on the proposal whether to conclude the general discussion in the evening ahead or if to continue tomorrow morning, I am always waiting for the Leaders to hear and send us a shared proposal. On the continuation of the work, the Presidency would point out that a Conference of the Leaders will be convened tomorrow. Now, I had given the floor to the rapporteurs, because the government representative was imminent and so I had privileged the continuation of the work. As we are still waiting for the government, I suspend the session for a few minutes, so as to allow the representative of the government to be present. I apologize, Senator Rivolta, but obviously I did not want to interrupt President Pesco. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 16.19 a.m. and resumed at 16.32 a.m.) I call the rapporteur, Senator Rivolta.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u68	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we are presenting ourselves, as we may not all know, a bit'smart', because, perhaps more than in other years, the budgetary session has been frantic, given the timing of the work that the House and the Senate have been facing. Therefore, the contemporaneity of the decree-law on the implementation of the PNRR in the House and the departure of the budget maneuver here from us created a traffic jam at the MEF. This has partially slowed down normal rhythms. I must say, however, that, together with the rapporteurs, Mr Pesco and the expert Senator Errani, we have tried to organize an orderly work which, precisely for the composition of the majority of this House, has seen a continuous contact with all the Groups precisely to try to achieve common results on important issues. That of energy bills was the important theme; the whole aspect of the superbonus 110 percent was another very important element; the earthquake in any budget law always remains a knot to loosen, an argument on which to work a lot, but also aspects related to the health of the person, to violence, to the needs that this pandemic has highlighted: the suffering of people, adults but also of children and children, with all the various facets that we see in reality, with the weakness and fragility of many people. These are some of the most important issues that we have dealt with, to which work has also been added. There have been continuous tables, sometimes even a bit exhausting, because being in a meeting for whole days is quite tiring, but this has allowed us to get to speak with the Government with a lot of determination. The most important thing was the help to families for energy bills, especially to the weakest families and I must say that the Premier and the Government all showed attention. Sometimes it is said that it is never enough, because unfortunately the costs are always very high, but it has been clear the choice to help the families, especially the weakest ones, not to succumb overwhelmed by the weight of the fixed costs of home. We have also dealt with another aspect with the colleagues of the various Groups, on which we have gathered and managed to make a summary, that is, the one related to TOSAP and COSAP, giving the possibility, especially to traders and all those who use external spaces, to be helped because, even if defended from vaccines and even if much more experienced in correct behavior (hygiene, distancement, mask), the ways of life have changed and we have learned to live the sociality outside even in winter. The exhibitors must therefore be helped, just as the municipalities must be helped. It was therefore chosen to cover the Tosap for at least three months: then there are those who say that in the South there is a temperature and in the North it is much more difficult, but this was a choice that we made practically unanimously. As I said, so much attention has been given to people and families. Nice to read about young people: we would have liked to have many more resources to be able to help in our turn also significantly young people, increasing the deduction or raising the age compared to rents and the search for autonomy, but it was really difficult to intervene with funds however limited, but above all limited by the common choices that had been made. In any case, we moved on and we worked this way. In my opinion it is important to see how a family idea is born and how it is clear to everyone that we must try to help people to be a family, to help themselves, to create realities of security and common growth. In this direction there is the forecast, contained in the draft budget law, of aid for the age group from zero to six years, with the construction of kindergartens even in areas where there is a much lower population density. There has also been special attention from the Government, which has been confirmed also by the amendative choices of the senators, in aiming to help fragile and disabled people, so that they are increasingly involved and can live in a more inclusive context. For example, funds have been given to municipalities to cover the costs of school transport for disabled people, but special attention has also been given, in the idea of tourism, to the accessibility of tourist places by disabled people. This has a double value: it is a particular audience, but it is a audience that deserves to live happy moments in beautiful places, maybe even doing sports. This means looking for a better way to live, to be together, and it is important that we all realize it. As Mr Garavaglia says - and I quote always - tourism is our biggest industry. We must not do so much, because we already have an extraordinarily different and beautiful country as a base, but we must learn to make it known, to make it want and to make it easily usable in all senses, despite the orographic difficulties, roads and cities built badly. We need to focus on improving the heritage that we have and the measureability is given precisely by how much we want to involve people with disabilities. A great deal of attention has been paid, including by colleagues, to many associations and to the world of disability, because that is right, but attention has also been paid to the world of work. We managed, in fact, with the Social Bee at 32, to think of those workers who, doing a very usurping job, need to finish the work phase and live a well-deserved period of rest and healthier activities. All these predictions are very important, but the other significant part was the house and the superbonus to allow to improve the conditions of many homes from an energy point of view, but also from a more general point of view. It has been done even more and we have allowed it with all our proposals: we have also introduced the RSA and the ONLUS into the superbonus categories. It is therefore an absolutely important rule. A great deal of attention has also been paid to a reality that is unfortunately in great growth: I am referring to the phenomenon of autism. I think that all the groups, in the last major measures, have devoted attention to this issue: it was also done this time, because being able to involve these people, make them as autonomous as possible, means allowing them to think about a more serene life project, to have a work and family project. This means that our community is progressing, but we must not forget, unfortunately, the 3 million poor people in Italy. It is incredibly heartbreaking to think that there are so many children under the age of six who live in poverty. We will be more civil when we manage to improve the lives of these weak and all too often wretched groups not only for lack of goods and money but also for values that are in a situation of great fragility. We have dealt with so many of these issues and I think we have done a good job together. I will be happy to listen, together with my fellow rapporteurs, to the contributions that our colleagues and our colleagues will want to make to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u69	I call the rapporteur, Senator Errani.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a fact of truth: it has been a very difficult job for many reasons, starting with the fact that the draft budget law has arrived with more than one month late, for the government to choose to put heavy amendments within the budget law and because the majority is getting closer and closer to the presidential deadline. These are all elements that put us in front of a perhaps more challenging picture than usual. We have succeeded in achieving a goal, certainly not without limits or difficulties. We have tried to set our work on fairness and dialogue, which has developed between the speakers, the government and the different groups, including the opposition groups, that for their willingness to build this dialogue I think it is right to thank. We have tried to improve an already expansive maneuver. the president Pesco has explained the broader data of macroeconomy: the bill of budget is placed in a delicate phase of increase that - we must never forget - is unexpected also for us and not only for the analysts, that often do not make correct forecasts. For us too, however, it was quite unexpected news. The recovery, however, still reckons with a pandemic and, in my opinion, with a progressive social and psychological discomfort of which we are not always able to grasp the depth. Not rarely are we self-referential and we think that the flag on this or that issue can represent part of a response to the country. I believe, instead, that we are faced with the need to make a qualitative leap in capacity - and in this the PNRR is very important - not simply to do the works, not simply to invest the extraordinary resources contained in the PNRR, but to define a new profile of this country. We are faced with unprecedented changes that change the anthropology of this country. The Covid-19, for me, has certainly changed the anthropology of this country and we must face unprecedented challenges in terms of breadth and depth, such as the ecological transition, the climate crisis, the technological revolution that always produces new forms of illiteracy, separation and crushing of society. On these points of reflection, not analysis, if we ask ourselves to give answers to the draft budget law, I believe that two choices have been made: first in the Government's proposal, but then, with modesty and sensitivity we can stress this, also thanks to the work we have done in the Commission, choosing some issues. The first choice is to continue to think that the superbonus is not simply an intervention to help families, for restructuring and for energy redevelopment, but is a tool to interpret that challenge. That is why we have made some important choices, such as, for example, the indispensable choice of photovoltaics, without losing sight of the fact that the ONLUS or RSA were entitled to enter this process. The most significant choice that we have made with regard to Parliament's willingness was to say that the ecological transition is not a reversible choice and that, on the contrary, we must build much more so that it is not reversible. We have also made important choices on social matters, because there is no ecological transition without an industrial revolution, in the sense of the industry that becomes the protagonist of a new enterprise: we talk little about it, too little about it. We talk too much about incentives and too little about this country's new industrial project. Perhaps this is a limit of this draft budget law, which either meets the strategies of the PNRR, which look and go in this direction, or would have too short a breath on this. The government has also dealt with the tax problem. We did not intervene substantially on this. In this regard, I would like to express a strictly personal opinion which does not in any way concern the other rapporteurs, whom I thank for the very important work they have done. I have to say that the intervention is significant, it is 8 billion; the so-called mini maxi amendment speaks altogether of 12 billion, but it takes much more courage to interpret tax reform in this country. We remain a country that pays a high price, Banca d'Italia speaks of 109 billion tax evasion, but it is difficult to find an evador, not because it is not, but because nobody thinks it is: the vast majority think they are harassed by taxes. In my view, there is a very significant cultural problem here. I know this debate is difficult, but politics is also destined to chart a future, to give an address to the country, to explain why we are not always on the same side, because there is one side and why there is another, in relation to strategy, vision, where we want to bring this country and its citizens, neither above nor against them, but not even in search of an ephemeral consensus, played on tickling all forms of selfishness. We must therefore reflect on this, because inequalities in this country grow and do not decrease. So I wonder how we interpret redistribution in modern forms, within a new dynamic of wealth accumulation. I believe that not even in distant times the accumulation of wealth was as significant as today, but these themes are also part of the political dialectic. In all this, with different positions, we have managed to build a synthesis and this is the thing I'm most satisfied with. This is a summary in which everyone paid prices. After all, politics is the ability to understand even how far you can push yourself and what you are willing to give up. I believe that this is the political synthesis. If you don't know who you are and if you don't know where you want to go, it's hard to mediate, even the most trivial. We, with a sometimes harsh debate - I do not want to make a geographical description of our debate - and not without controversy, but this summary has managed to do so and we make it available to the Assembly, to the Groups or better to the citizens, because after all - and I am beginning to conclude - this is once again the only reading of the draft budget law. I don't want to give up on this problem. There is something wrong, there is something that gradually, becoming pathological, proposes a significant problem of function not only of the Assembly, not only of the Groups, not only of the Senate and the House, but of politics and not because there is Draghi, a technician, as President of the Council. No, this has happened because we cannot develop as we should. It is beginning to be a problem to confront and relate to the dialectic between times, time and possibility of engraving, indeed to say one's own. This is a big problem. One cannot, the last month before Christmas, have to examine the draft budget law, the decree on the PNRR, the law delegation on disability, the tax decree and other provisions. This problem weighs heavily on and above all weakens politics, not because it is not possible to approve the amendment, but because in this way politics loses its sense. Perhaps in this difficult and at times even quite tiring work that we have all done together, with the involvement of all the Groups, a small contribution we have managed to make. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u71	The minority rapporteur, Senator Calandrini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u72	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Calandrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u73	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the President of the Budget Commission and the rapporteurs, Senator Errani and Senator Rivolta. In particular, I was very pleased that Senator Errani's intervention revealed his understanding of the sensitivity of the opposition at such a delicate stage as that of the approval of this financial manoeuvre. I thank him because he understood the responsibility that the only opposition party and parliamentary group has shown in the conduct of this particular moment of the country's life, with reference to a maneuver that is the last that we will approve in this House of Parliament (the next one will be approved in the other branch). However, I would like to make it clear that there is a great deal of disappointment about the Commission's work, which has been carried out very quickly and in a very short time. There have been dozens and dozens of sessions (which we have always said we should not do), and then we have a river sitting last night and we have 18 hours in the Commission to approve the manoeuvre and give the rapporteurs a mandate to come to this House today. Before arriving in the Chamber, the maneuver contained quite undefined speeches, which should have accentuated its supposed expansion. The government has filled its mouth (pass me the term) with this expansion of the maneuver, which I have assessed only for one aspect in particular. The maneuver is basically expansive for two reasons and not for the government's merits: we have a National Recovery and Resilience Plan, as colleagues have said (which is worth 200 billion euros, plus 30 billion of a supplementary fund), but the most important thing is the safeguard clause, namely the suspension of the Stability Pact. So these are the reasons why we are talking today about the expansiveness of the maneuver. As I said, the Commission's work, both for the short time and for the strong divisions of this majority, as Mr Errani also pointed out, perhaps because we are at the end of a path, has not served, as far as we are concerned, to make significant improvements to the text. This is because, as has been read and said often - and I have no doubt to confirm - this maneuver is worth EUR 37 billion, against which there are resources covered by EUR 13.7 billion, resulting in an increase in the deficit of EUR 23.3 billion. Compared to what I said about expansion, it should be stressed that compared to 2020, when Italy was heavily impacted by the pandemic and by disastrous restrictive measures, the situation has certainly improved, but for the objective facts that I mentioned earlier: on the one hand the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and, on the other hand, the maintenance of the safeguard clause, with the consequent suspension of the Stability Pact. This maneuver brings in dowry savings, which in part have been assessed by the only force of opposition, that is, by the Brothers of Italy. Firstly, there is our historic battle against cashback, which, thanks to its suspension from 2022, will bring in dowry to this majority, to this Government and to this Parliament one and a half billion euros. I would also like to remind you of one of our amendments - which we had to work on with the Deputy Minister in order to make him understand their importance - tabled by the only political opposition force, which saves EUR 130 million in the cross financing sector. For a round of VAT-related rounds, with this amendment, approved thanks to our sensitivity, there will be a savings of 130 million euros. With regard to the content, I was pleased to hear what Senator Vasco Errani said earlier about reducing the tax burden, namely that more courage was needed. True, it took more courage to do this tax reform. There has been a cut of EUR 8 billion, a third of the total funds, compared to the maneuver, but it is just over 1% of the state's total tax revenues, which amount - I would like to remind you - to more than EUR 500 billion. Therefore, on tax reform, let's say that it is always good when taxes are reduced, but this reduction will be worth, as some national newspapers said, some coffee not a day, but a week. We would have expected, instead, from this resource so important in the amount, a multiplier effect, which will obviously not be possible with a reduction that, when it goes well, will be worth 200-300 euros a year, considering that we have included also the 100 euros of Renzi. We will then take a few hundred euros a year and lose 1,200 euros. There will unfortunately be no multiplier effects with this tax reduction. In addition, I would like to address another thorny chapter, that of citizenship income, on which we have waged a battle. We thought that it might somehow not say upset, but at least changed; unfortunately this did not happen. The income of citizenship, as you know, in our opinion, should have been a measure of reintegration to work, but it did not work, because we know that only one third of the recipients of citizenship income are employable. That is not what we say, but the Court of Auditors, which states that only 25% of the recipients have found work, mostly with fixed-term contracts, and only 15% are still occupied today. If we want to get to the bottom of this issue, as regards other issues that colleagues have addressed, such as building bonuses, compared to the initial text there is actually an improvement. In this particular case, Parliament's work has succeeded in improving what was initially planned for the superbonus, eliminating the stakes that the Council of Ministers had put in the budget scheme, which limited to the whole 2022 the extension of the bonus for work on single-family houses carried out by natural persons. In fact, a whole series of points are being removed today with the amendments, which created considerable uncertainty about this measure. However, despite this, there is a tendency to curb investment. I am referring to the habit of changing the cards on the table. The superbonus, since its entry into force to the present day, has already undergone numerous corrective measures, which have in part discouraged families and businesses in exploiting it for the uncertainty of its validity, also linked to the deadlines provided for by a series of measures. Compared to other issues contained in the law we believe that we are in the presence of a maneuver that does not give answers neither to companies, limiting itself to extending interventions already adopted in the past years, nor to taxpayers, who continue to be persecuted by the Revenue Agency. I would like to recall, one for all, the debitory records, i.e. the instalments of the dismantling-b of the balance and deletion, that on 14 December they expired; no one had the courage to intervene at least to postpone, at a delicate time, this particular measure. Precisely for this reason the government of the best had to expect a very different budget law; we certainly should not have bothered President Draghi. As far as we are concerned, this is a manoeuvre without a political vision, there being such a heterogeneous majority, that it postpones the fundamental choices and that totally forgets growth. An accelerated and at the same time restrained process by continuous delays and constant tensions between the majority forces has obviously prevented this manoeuvre from being affected and improved. With this brief report - and I will clearly give an explanation of vote to make a purely political statement - I wanted to explain why I voted against the text approved by the Commission. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u74	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u75	Madam President, I should first like to point out some aspects that have characterized the debate on this maneuver. In stressing certain aspects of the method, I would also like to refer to what Senator Rauti has just said, which very elegantly has postponed to another moment any kind of reasoning on the way in which we have come to discuss this budgetary manoeuvre today. I was pleased - as my colleague Mr Balboni has just pointed out - with the recognition that Senator Errani has received from us on the responsible role that Brothers of Italy has been able to play within this context. But the fact that we have been granted this dignity of responsible opposition does not exempt us from exercising our responsibility to our constituents. This means strongly denouncing the method adopted: I am referring to the continuous referrals that have characterized the budgetary debate. Last week the Commission was summoned three times and three times daily it was uncalled for. We have arrived at the first and only meeting of the Budget Commission, the one that took place this night, which concluded the work and finally allowed us to arrive in this House. This means yet another mortification against Parliament. [[Applause]] , yet another mortification against the only opposition present in Parliament, yet another mortification against the expectations that many Italians had placed in the amendments that Brothers of Italy presented in the Budget Committee. The fact that we have been recognized this dignity of responsible opposition is not only a pleasure to us, but we also claim it in the way in which the Group had organised itself, a way that I at least personally shared and that I believe, indeed I am sure, have appreciated all my fellow Members, because we have all been involved, regardless of the members of the Budget Committee belonging to the Brothers of Italy Group. Let me therefore express my sincere thanks to the Ciriani group leader, the group leader in the Budget Committee, Senator Calandrini, but also and above all to the Members who participated with attention, rigour and competence in all the preliminary discussions that took place within our Group, but who did not have the opportunity to express themselves. Thanks also to the work of the legislative group and the entire secretariat of the parliamentary group, we have put in place a real team that has expressed or better could have expressed in terms of competence, serious and thorough work. This was not allowed, because the many subsequent referrals did not allow us to explain the amendments and explain the ratio of each individual amendment proposal tabled. This is true with regard to the method, but of course there are also some aspects of merit that characterize our disappointment. I am referring in particular to a sector that has not only not been observed in the right ways and terms, but has even been vexed by a measure in particular, which has involved within the world of associationism a series of negative measures that will strongly characterize this world. I would remind you that it represents about 20 million Italians, with an important percentage of GDP both in the social sector and in sport, and that it has not been given due attention in this manoeuvre. In particular, there is a provision that cries out revenge, which has been partially corrected, leaving unsolved the problems it will create. I am referring to the measure introduced in the tax decree, which will change the scope of VAT with regard to the world of associations. A very heavy measure, which has been corrected only partially, using in my opinion a way of doing pirates. The budget Commission, in fact, having approved the amendment, has moved the problem forward for a couple of years. It comes from saying that, all in all, the problem has been temporarily solved. No, not only has it been delayed, but it has even aggravated the situation in the whole sector. These are things that I am not saying alone, not only Brothers of Italy is telling you, but the forum of the third sector, the only social part recognized by the Italian State, which has violently and heavily criticized this maneuver. The referral measure has not produced and will not produce effective results. In fact, the world of associations, which must still try to understand whether to transform its legal nature from a simple association to an association of social promotion, going to modify its statute, with this sword of Damocles remaining on its head, will not take much into consideration the hypothesis of becoming social promotion associations. This is an important aspect that has not only not been resolved, but has even been weighed down; the postponement is absolutely not the panacea for the solution of the problem and I hope that in the future we can arrive at a definition, the most peremptory possible, that radically resolves the issue introduced with the approval of the tax decree. There is another aspect that I think needs to be addressed. We are still in the field of associationism. This time we are faced with the problems of the world of sport that has always, at least in Italy, presents an endemic problem related to its departure from below. I am referring to the presence of sport within schools. We have always said that there can be no homogeneous growth of sport in our country without its balanced growth within our schools. Well, we had greeted with attention, curiosity and also with respect the introduction within the draft budget law of a rule that provided for the insertion of motor activity in the primary school: an epochal fact, really important, with respect to which - I repeat - we had undertaken to follow carefully the process of this part of the maneuver. Unfortunately, this aspect linked to the possibility of finally growing the world of sport within the school institution has been revolutionized, emptied of meanings and investments, and has been reduced to a mere measure of facade that will go for the umpteenth time to postpone the problem. There are also other aspects that concern the world of sport, a sector that has been left to the problems created by the pandemic and the structural ones that concern the whole sports system, but that is not what I want to talk about now; there will be a way and a chance to talk about it. As far as the draft budget law is concerned, sport is blatantly absent. I'm gonna finish. I mention only quickly the amendments that Brothers of Italy tabled, which were not even worthy of a discussion and which concerned the possibility that the expenses resulting from the pandemic crisis could be addressed with resources from the State to mitigate losses, which amount to about 50% of the usual average income of sport activity. We asked for the inclusion of a wellness bonus, an intervention for the payment of utilities, the postponement for the payment of loans and leases, but all this was not recognized and we were not even allowed to explain it. I want to strongly denounce him in this House and I want to conclude my speech by also denouncing the lack of sensitivity on the part of the Government, but also on the part of Parliament, in relation to this important social matter. As of now I have already pointed out and emphasized the negative vote of the Brothers of Italy on the whole maneuver. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u76	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a day and a night spent comparing the search for a synthesis between senators, between groups and with the government, we are here to hold a general discussion within a path of approval of the important work done in the Commission. A bill of budget that was already originally very expansive: over 30 billion, of which 4 billion went to health expenditure, 3 billion to the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, 3 billion to social shock absorbers, 2 and a half billion of social interventions, 2 billion to contain the costs of energy, 1.5 billion for local authorities, 8 billion tax reduction, 2 billion public investments, 1.5 billion direct to companies. These are absolutely important numbers of an imposing maneuver, which had and has the task of injecting into the entire economic system of this country an important and very strong shock. In agriculture, which I have been dealing with for many years now, even on the occasion of this draft budget law, we are faced with a maneuver of very high numbers, probably the most impressive in recent years. I would like to mention the Irpef exemption, which is worth almost 250 million; the decontribution for the under 40, which is worth over 50 million in three years; the VAT intervention for meat husbandry, which is worth almost 75 million; the risk management, which is worth almost 700 million in six years; the insurance intervention, which amounts to 250 million; the Ismea intervention to support the activities of agricultural enterprises (almost 80 million euros). 17.25 (Taricco follow-up). Moreover, forestry intervention: 30 million for the years 2022-2023 and 40 from 2024; the theme of the production chains, with 160 million allocated to the supply chains; the food districts (120 million); fisheries interventions; the fund itself on the mountain: 100 million for many rural areas with a more complicated development environment and a lower population density. All this alongside the extraordinary interventions that have started and are starting for the PNRR, that it will inject almost 7 billion investments for logistics, mechanics, supply chains, irrigation system and energetic interventions. We said that it was an important job, almost two days no stop work in the Commission where, as has already been said by the rapporteurs, very important challenges were addressed: interventions aimed at school, culture, the environment, sport, research, infrastructure and the maritime sector. We have dealt with sensitive and very complicated issues, such as the issue of VAT for the third sector, which was the result of a risk of Community infringement; the redefinition of the energy bonus; the very sensitive issue of relocations; issues related to the free profession. Moreover, the issue of tax reduction and social security measures. Also in the agricultural field important interventions have been carried out in favour of white meat, with a fund that will support this sector that is going through objectively a season of great general difficulty linked, in some ways, also to the Covid events that have hit this market; interventions destined to the organic sector, to the nuts, to the smaller supply chains, to the bee sector, to the beer, to the food and wine sector. In this draft budget law there are measures aimed at strengthening the Agricultural Research Council (Crea), the National Computer System (SIN), the central inspectorate for the protection of quality and repression fraud of agri-food products (Icqrf), one of the prides of our country, which next year will also be called to deal with the fight and prevention of unfair commercial practices. Then there is a very specific measure on the prevalence, important especially in a vintage like the one we have behind, with the frost that has hit many companies. This is the calculation mechanism, according to which farms must have a prevalence of their specific activity, so if they are fruit, fruit and vegetables or other they must have the prevalence of that sector over all ancillary sectors. At a time when this sector is heavily affected by frost, there is a risk of losing the identity of farms themselves, so a regulatory clarification was important and we were able to incorporate it into the draft budget law. It is certainly a very significant manoeuvre in an extraordinary season both for the challenges and agriculture, but a little 'all society is called to face in a moment of great change, and for the measures put in place. As I said before, there are many interventions on agriculture; a season that sees on the horizon the new CAP and the implementation of the PNRR with all the resources and investments that will be put in place. An extraordinary season also for the reforms that will have to accompany the PNRR and that in agriculture will touch many vital aspects: from digitalization to a whole series of system organisational reforms; but also for the change of perception that revolves around agriculture. The European Union, interpreting the sensitivity of European citizens, has recently approved guidelines - from the Farm to Fork strategy to the protection of biodiversity - which tend to rethink in a strategy of conversion agriculture and the relationship with the territory with a view to environmental and social sustainability, of overall sustainability that looks to the future of these productions. Certainly, as I said before, agriculture will be called to face a series of very impressive challenges (the digital transition, energy, environmental), which will require a change of organizational paradigm in some ways, but also of strategic rethinking of its own purposes and operating modalities. The ongoing reform of SIN SpA and Agea (Agenzia per le Spesi in Agricoltura) tends to rethink in a perspective of simplification, in the context of a transition of great complexity, to get to have a more digital system, more computerized, simpler and more accessible. As for the issue of risk management, I believe that this budget law will be remembered in the coming decades as the one that has changed the system of protection in the face of the catastrophal risks (freeze, drought and floods) for agriculture, with a universal mutual fund that will support the farms throughout the country compared to all these risks, in a system, the insurance one, that at this moment, in the light of the great damage that agriculture has suffered, objectively risks to jump. Then there are many other issues. I believe that agriculture is called upon in the coming years and months to face very important challenges. I think I can say that with this budget law we have accompanied ourselves with a sort of toolbox that will allow all the institutions working in contact with agriculture to have more tools to draw on to face the challenges we face. I believe that we have taken an important step in this budget law. We certainly expect big commitments in the coming months, but I believe that what we have put in place with this law can help us to fully grasp the challenges we face both in agriculture and for the country everything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u78	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u79	Mr President, he spoke of almost two days of debate in the Commission. With all due respect to my colleague, who has already said this, it is a bit of a laugh, because it is the budget law; in any case, that is not the case. We discussed the budget law for 2022 a whole morning, in addition to a few handful of hours in the night sitting, because the Senate Budget Committee opened the doors at 2.25 a.m. with the first vote and at 3.30 p.m. we were already here in the Chamber and I am talking about the 15.30 of the same day. We must make an act of truth, as the rapporteur has said, and for this reason we must say that we have two important issues on the table. The first is the question of the democratic emergency, which is visible. We are in a free fall: in nine years in the Senate, after two legislatures and the succession of six governments, I have never seen such a thing. Some of my colleagues from an older parliamentary point of view told me that you didn't either; a colleague in the corridors told me that, with the much disputed Berlusconi Government, you were in the presence of gentlemen. I believe that since 1994, we can date a free fall in this Parliamentary institution. They told me that to change the Constitution there is a very complicated process and there is an article in the Constitution to defend which the political and parliamentary group I was part of climbed on the roofs, because there is an iter that wants to keep the parliamentary rules. Parliament, in addition to being a legislator, even if it hasn't been for a long time, is also a controller of the government, but that is not anymore either. Then what is it? Of course, with the cut in the number of Members, with an electoral law that will not be changed, because there will be no time, and if it is changed it will be done with a roof that is shown to be 5%, this institution will not be worth anything. The new rules on the "change of office," as they have been called, do not estimate, for example, that leaving a Parliamentary Group at 33% to join a Parliamentary Group at 2.7% may not indicate a personal interest and, perhaps, if the party changes politics, the parliamentarians are authorized, for their electoral mandate, to leave. But let's talk about something else. First of all, I disagree - and it is rare that it is not - with Mr Errani. I do not agree that this is an expansive manoeuvre, because we do have a tax reduction, but first of all not in a fair and not in a distributive way; we are working on this expansion - as has been said by the right - thanks to the suspension of the safeguard clause, which will expire in 2023. So, we're working on money we don't have. In fact, 23.3 billion out of 37 are in deficit and we will soon have to account for all these movements in debt. In this budget law it would have been necessary to do many things and to do them well. We have been discussing for a long time the need to present a decree-law that resolves the question of relocations. Well, the mountain has given birth to a mouse; indeed, to listen to those who are well aware of the consequences of this amendment of the Government, it seems that the size is worse than the hole, because placing the issue only in terms of payment, prebende and a greater fine, we are creating the track and giving the possibility to those who want to delocalize it according to norms and reduce everything to the institutional bon ton, going to literally "scold" those companies that communicate the layoffs with a text message. Yet, one of the most important things to do is to review precisely the company's discipline, according to Articles 41 and 42 of the Constitution, because we must not forget that Article 41, paragraph 1, certainly provides that the entrepreneur is right and can be guaranteed in his ius utendi, but paragraph 2, where he prohibits an act of enterprise in contrast with social utility or in order to harm safety, freedom and human dignity, denies the ius abutendi. The consequence is that undertakings which intend to decommit themselves definitively from a production site for reasons not determined by a financial, economic or asset imbalance may sell it but do not close it. Yet none of these procedures are provided for in this amendment. None of the sub-amendments to the Government's amendment, which provided for an iter that allowed the same workers to take over the company, was taken into account. The Government's vision, therefore, can be translated into this grave non-compliance with relocations. A bill was written with constitutionalists and technicians of the sector thanks to the help of the workers of the GKN and was deposited to the Senate and the House. Despite this, the Government, without listening to any of the parties, has gone its way and, therefore, we will issue fines that will be easy to pay for those who still want to take the public money of Italy and then go to work elsewhere. There are certainly many other issues on the table. I am thinking, for example, of the self-government, which is opened a door with the budget law, even if it excludes parliamentary debate. Yet, with the health emergency we have had proof of how bad Title V has been and how much, instead of proceeding on the wrong road, it would be necessary to go back to putting hand to Title V in order to remedy the errors. I had also signed an amendment which provided for aid to the metropolitan cities. My colleague Valente had introduced it and I had signed it, but I knew that conditionality would come, the noose around the neck for the cities that were instead the state ATM. Undersecretary Castelli was one of the great supporters of the compensation of the municipalities... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] They paid and made the citizens pay a national debt... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u80	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen present in this Chamber, of these five minutes - there are very few to give an opinion on the budget law - I would like to reserve the first to stress the criticism of method and system, which I really hope will be correct in this last year of parliamentary term in order to give the next legislature a style and parliamentary practice with a new vitality. The three criticisms are as follows: we invented a monocameral system with alternating current, once we of the Senate, once the Chamber. This in fact undermines Parliament's richness and potential. The second criticism coincides exactly with what some of our colleagues have done: we have started voting late at night. Therefore, the awareness of what is written in the bill and what will become operational is necessary at least limited by time, if not by the state of supervision. The third criticism, which is my systematic criticism, aims to point out that, with a 75% majority of Parliament as a whole, the use of confidence seems almost a sign of distrust of Parliament itself. It is three system criticisms, procedural criticisms which I consider to be important and which I would like to hear. Having said that, what are the most interesting and positive aspects of this budgetary manoeuvre? I want to focus, of course, on the field within our competence, which is, at the same time, a field that concerns health and one that concerns university. As far as the health sector is concerned, I greatly appreciated the two billion increase in the national health fund. Many or very few of them, so unequivocal in this case, mark the reversal of the trend, the consideration that health costs are never only costs, but are always and above all investments in health. Of course, two million who have been invested almost all in vaccines, which can only be the main concern of all of us at the moment. The new omicron wave seems to turn our prospects, our hopes upside down, and it really raises many doubts, many uncertainties. We are all very busy right now in the vaccination campaign that concerns children. I can only welcome what was the amendment, at my first signature, for the hospital of the Child Jesus, to support the hospitals that today are dealing with children, which are now the most exposed category. Pediatricians should be heard, on these interstitial lungs, sometimes very serious, with which children are coming to horas, which then require to be intubated. Supporting children's hospitals becomes, therefore, at this time, the most consistent measure compared to the objective we have set ourselves. I am also pleased that the fund for innovative medicines has increased. We rejoiced, a few weeks ago, for the adoption of the Law on Rare Diseases. We have repeatedly pointed out that a rare disease law cannot be effective unless we support research into so-called orphan drugs and experimentation which, as in the case of rare diseases, goes towards innovative drugs, because we have to invent drugs that do not exist and do not have a benchmark with others. In this context, I am also pleased with two other measures. One is the increase of 12,000 specialization grants for students, for young graduates in medicine. 12,000 more grants means somehow recovering that gap, which was behind us and which saw a funnel tightening up and condemning in some way, if not to unemployment, inemployment or less qualified employment, so many young doctors, who nevertheless have a not insignificant cost for their training. The same applies to the stabilisation of personnel employed during the pandemic, as well as to the increased resources at university and research, including in the field of technology. I am sorry that due attention has not been paid, as we asked, to the resources of the colleges of merit as well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u82	Mr President, a speech to focus on certain elements which, in my opinion, have characterized this budgetary law, which is certainly complex and complicated by the general context in which we are moving. It is also difficult to close the accounts, difficult to give overall answers to the country, which take into account all the complications we face. Certainly the work done by the rapporteurs deserves respect, attention and consideration and in this respect I particularly thank them. However, I do not feel that I am as generous towards the Government, because honestly it is not the amount of resources made available that must then determine the applause, but the way in which we relate to building an important budget law. It is clear that we are making this transition with a tight and difficult time, as Senator Errani has correctly said, which I thank for the special attention he has put on some amendments relating to Firefighters. We are doing this with times that seem objectively to compress the debate as well as the analysis of problems. The draft budget we are debating is made up of large chapters: there are enormous issues within it that have found an answer, if not comprehensive overall, certainly satisfactory for the size of the problems and for the resources available. I am thinking of everything concerning the rewording of the rules on taxes and the provision, which we have insisted on and supported, of the resources to be able to remove taxes on our traders: I am thinking of the tax for the occupation of public spaces and areas (TOSAP) and all about the categories in difficulty. I am still thinking of the enormous costs of the energy bill, which concern us far beyond the size of the resources made available by the budget law. However, there are also many minor measures, perhaps for someone less important, but for us really important, that we wanted to emphasize: in particular, I think of the resources made available for disability. Alongside all this, alongside these heavyweights, there are also issues that we must not neglect. I am referring in particular to something that we should take more into account in the future: the budgetary law cannot be the recipe for the desires and expectations of individual senators or individual requests of the territory, because in the end the external narrative will inevitably tend to be that of a Parliament blocked with weeks and days of work (while the Government is very laborious), to carry out small marches, as they are also defined in technical terms. This is not right, because the work done in the Commission is challenging, difficult and important. Maybe it would be better and more dignified to bring this type of initiative back to a single specific measure: once they called it in a derogatory way "Tip Law," but within it there were many measures, perhaps also the intervention to support a school or an association, which is different from the macro-Chapters and macro-themes that must instead enter into the budget law. Today, finding these two elements mixed certainly does not do Parliament any favour and does not even give the idea of the difficulty of the work done and the answers given. Having said that, Mr President, I shall concentrate on a number of specific issues which I have been following in particular. I am thinking of everything that has been included in the draft budget for the safety and rescue sector, so I am referring to the fire department. In the measure under consideration, some expectations and demands are finally met, such as those of the six contributory shots that we wanted together with other groups and that the Government has allowed, with appropriate rewording, to be included in the draft budget law. I am also thinking of the rewording of amendments made by several groups which, like ours, called for a strengthening of the staff of the fire department. On this we will have to be very careful because it is a mechanism that fishes from a single large container, within which they will go to take their quotas both the State Police and the other police or the Fire Department. It will depend on the capacity of the Ministry, and in this sense we will be watchful, so that there are not only crumbs for the Fire Department, but a significant strengthening of the contingent of people available. Then there are important interventions, and in this regard I particularly thank the Head of Department and Prefect Frattase, who I saw active today for the provision of resources. This intervention was made by the rapporteur Errani to find EUR 4 million of resources to be made available to firefighters for equal pay. We are talking about something that has long been awaited and which gradually comes closer to completion, making possible a recognition of the work done by our rescuers identical, as to salaries, to the one recognized by the Forces of Order. It is a good job and a good result. One amendment that we wanted and for which we have particularly insisted is the civil liability and the legal costs that our servants in uniform have to bear when, in carrying out their duty, they find themselves having to answer for any damage caused. Now they know that they will also have these resources available for insurance cover and attorney's fees. Who wears a uniform must know that the State is always on its side. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would ask you for an extra minute to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u83	Please, Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u84	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). There is, however, one part which, in my opinion, has remained unreasonably unsatisfied, concerning the amendment that we had tabled to allow VAT to be reduced for the purchase of rescue equipment in favour of voluntary firefighters. Mr President, apart from the content (on which we will insist until we have obtained this kind of relief), there is an attitude which I do not think is appropriate: that of the Government to give up its commitments and then betray them. This is a rebuke that I already made to Minister D'Incà the other night, bearing in mind that we were asked to withdraw the amendments tabled to the fire decree, with the Government's commitment to submit them to the draft budget law. The ancients used to say "packa sunt servanda": the commitments must always be kept, net of their size. If one is missing in the word, there is no more trust. Those representing the Government must be the first to ensure that the word given to Parliament is maintained. [[Applause]] This is an attitude that hurts not only those who have signed the amendment or given the floor and then betrayed it, but the relationship between institutions. I think we should all meditate on this call, especially... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u85	Senator Candiani, your time is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u86	I say that the sitting will end at 8 p.m., as agreed between the parliamentary groups. I therefore ask you to respect the time limits.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u87	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u88	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Budget Commission and the rapporteurs, who have been working for days and continuously for thirty-six hours now. Actually, thank you for the huge work you've done. [[Applause]] If we are about to conclude the examination of the draft budget law, it is only because of the responsibility of all the parliamentary groups and - I say - clearly of what I belong to. However, this is not the way to work, because we cannot continue to mortify the role, the function of Parliament. It is clear that we are in a delicate phase, but all the constitutional balances and, above all, the role of the legislative power must always be preserved and protected. This is the maneuver of both positive and negative record numbers. The allocation of so little money for Parliament is certainly negative (just EUR 600 million) and it is negative that the first vote in the Budget Committee was only made last night, as we are now at the end of December. It is also bad that some ministries have been ignoring the political will of some groups for years now. This is because you do not want to dislike lobbying or power groups. It is negative in this manoeuvre that the offices had to work to the last on government amendments that continued to be deposited, despite the opposition of all the Leaders; therefore the offices unfortunately did not have the opportunity and time to complete all the investigations on the amendments reported by the Groups. As usual, the most sacrificed group was mine, the relative majority group. Let me also say, Mr President, that this Group is no longer willing to sacrifice: of our 140 amendments, almost half of them unfortunately do not see the light because they lack technical report, opinion or investigation. Yet we have been working for weeks, with great commitment, to ensure that the few resources available to Parliament are used effectively, trying to converge on common issues. I assure you that in such a varied majority finding the synthesis is not at all simple. We spent hours and hours in meetings that were unfortunately useless, because in the end the changes were impossible since the time had now expired. So, Mr President, as the Head of the Movimento 5 Stars Group, let me represent today all the discomfort that my Parliamentary Group is experiencing. Let me also ask the government and the executives of the ministerial offices for more attention for this parliamentary group. However, this is also the move of some positive records and this will be discussed by my fellow Members who will follow me. Among the positive things there is certainly an extension of the extension of the superbonus. [[Applause]] Then there are all the interventions in favour of school and seismic zones, the exemption from the tax for the occupation of public spaces and areas (TOSAP), recruitment for the Forces of Order and the Fire Departments, measures to support gender equality and against gender violence, measures to protect animals, measures in the field of health, such as the establishment of the fund for cancer genomics or the fund for the fight against eating disorders, the fund for fibromyalgia and, again, the many interventions in support of research. Some of my colleagues, however, will also highlight the many things that we have unfortunately failed to do. We have not been able to give the specialty allowance to nurses. We tried with all our might, but we had the opposite opinion from the Ministry of Civil Service. We have not been able to extend the compensation provided for first aid workers also to the 118 workers: doctors and nurses were our heroes in this pandemic, yet we still do not give concrete answers to everyone today. [[Applause]] There are no measures in support of artistic, musical and coreautic high training (Afam) or for the stabilization of researchers in the Institutes of Hospitalization and Scientific Care (IRCCS). We have worked hard, but unfortunately these battles have not been shared by the other political groups. Even in this draft budget law, despite the limited resources, some have preferred to allocate funds to local interventions and - let me say - too territorial, which should be financed in other ways. These include - I mention only examples - the renovation of the Nicotera promenade and the maintenance of the municipal road for the sea or the recruitment of two personnel units for the Municipality of Verduno. Clearly, all municipalities need resources. We would have wanted to set up a fund to support the municipalities, to hire more staff. Mr President, my hope is therefore that this Parliament will have a broader vision, which corresponds to the future of this country. Italy is a great country, Italians are a great people and politics must be up to the task entrusted to it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u89	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the Parent Company of the main majority group, which has just finished its speech. And I must say that the Parent Company of the main majority group is stealing the profession from the opposition, because it has rightly complained that this Government, the Government Dragons, has not in any way innovated the practice of previous governments, but has aggravated it, insofar as the times available to Parliament to examine a very important measure such as the budget law have not only not been dilated, but have been further compressed, with the race - I add - of all the Groups to bring home their small bell tower result. On this too, the main political force of the majority made absolutely acceptable considerations: everyone brings home his small result of courtyard, of bell tower, but then the overall vision risks being lost or - worse still - being imposed on Parliament, which no longer has any margin to affect the important choices of next year, a year that will be decisive for economic recovery, but also to soothe the many plagues that the pandemic, on the one hand, and the inefficiency of the governments that have had to face it, on the other hand, have unfortunately left throughout the country. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if that is the opinion of the majority, of the main majority group, what should we say about the opposition? We must say that you are absolutely right; that we cannot continue with confidence on trust; that we cannot continue to mortify the House of Parliament; that we cannot continue to transform the Senate, like the House of Deputies, into an empty, worthless box. But you see, dear fellow Leader of the Movimento 5 Star Group, there is a difference between us and you: you complain and remain exactly in your place to carry out the orders that come to you from above; while we, perhaps a little more coherent than you, remain in the opposition and give our constructive contribution when we are heard, the rare times when we are heard. A couple of times we certainly succeeded. First, the minority speaker, Senator Calandrini, mentioned them, whom I thank, as an exponent of the Brothers of Italy, for the work he has done, certainly very valuable. He mentioned some examples, to which I would like to add the 10 million fund for the owners of houses that cannot return to their property: they undergo the theft of their property, the State does not react and does not return it to them in due time. We kept a $10 million fund to restore and compensate them. I want to remember the very important battle to protect professionals who have an injury and get sick. These are measures that Brothers of Italy strongly wanted and which fortunately were achieved. But unfortunately, as Vice President of the Senate Justice Commission, I cannot be silent on the shameful amendment concerning the honorary judiciary that the Government has stuck, almost at the end of this very modest confrontation, in order to face the infringement procedure announced by Europe towards us, for the way in which Italy, in all these years, has treated and continues to treat the honorary magistrates: treated as true riders of justice, indeed worse, because now the riders will fortunately be regularized and stabilized. The honorary judges - as we all know very well - resolve almost half of all the affairs of justice, which, without them, would simply stop. Without the Deputy Honorary Prosecutors it would not be possible to hold a hearing, and I do not say before the judge of peace, but not even before the court; without the approximately 2,000 Honorary Judges of the Court it would be impossible to compose an infinite number of colleges. We all know very well that, without the honorary magistrates, justice tomorrow morning in Italy would simply stop. They are magistrates who, for years, have worked without protection and without the minimum basic rights that should belong to every worker, as Europe has recognized and finally, also the Italian judiciary with some important judgments. Well, what is the recognition, what is the gratitude that the Minister of Justice and the Government express with the amendment cited against this category that has held up Italian justice? It is an amendment that equals the honorary magistrate to the administrative staff, mortifying not this figure, but the judicial function he exercises. Comparing it to administrative staff, you offend not only the honorary judiciary, but also the high judicial function carried out in the name of the Italian people. It is a shame that we in this House want to denounce in a very strong and clear way. As we denounce the illogicality, the incongruity and the contradiction of claiming to submit to a selective test with so much examination, albeit oral, magistrates who have done their duty for ten, fifteen or twenty years in the classrooms of justice. This too is a further humiliation that the Government owed and could spare these faithful officials of the State. Dear President, the most shameful thing, however, is that with this amendment the Government requires the magistrate by law to accept this humiliating stabilisation, at the same time as signing the application for membership of the selection, even if it does not exceed it, to renounce all rights. The rights of all workers, in the past, must give up arrears, social security and welfare rights. You have to give up everything. It is a law-imposed blackmail that shouts shame at those who have a minimum sense of justice. But what rule of law behaves in this way towards its faithful servants, as they have shown to be honorary judges even risking their lives during the pandemic? Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would have been right to think more about the matter and above all it would have been right to let the very delicate and important discipline of the honorary judiciary have been addressed and resolved in the appropriate fora: the Commission Justice, first, and the Senate Chamber, then, and of course the House, where it was not certainly under the urgency of a budget law but - as you yourself say - with the time necessary to analyse and discuss. You wanted to close any confrontation, once again with an act of force, incentivising the rights of such an important category of workers, even linked to the outcome of the PNRR. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u91	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u92	Mr President, I too would like to thank the members of the Budget Committee, the rapporteurs and the President, who have worked on the difficult construction of the budget law. I also want to start - as Senator Castellone and Senator Candiani have done - from one point: it is clear that even the process of this budget law confirms that it cannot work in this way. There is not only one theme that concerns monocameralism in fact; there is not only one theme that concerns the constant emergency with which we work. It is clear, however, that if we want to avoid - as Senator Candiani says - the continuous crossroads between what the budget law should do, namely defining large assets, large assets, investments and an idea of the future of the country, we must find a way to avoid this process going together with an absolutely legitimate procedure, in which parliamentarians try to carry out instances or territorial or partisan. So there is a theme. I'm not about filling up responsibilities between government and parliament. However, they are among those who believe that we have to pose a problem that has arisen for several years now, and we must do so before, in order to understand how the debate and the work on the budget law can be set in a different way. There is one thing that I care about, Mr President, and I say this forcefully to you and to the Presidency: these difficulties cannot result in the continuous and constant attempt, which I see appearing on many media, to fuel an anti-parliamentaryism that is not needed. Download on Parliament and the institution all responsibilities for what is not working [[Applause]] I do not think that is acceptable, and I believe that this House must respond. In today's television broadcasts, commentators almost everywhere explained that Parliament does not work. I believe that things are a little more complicated and that feeding anti-parliamentaryism is not helpful. Having said that, I think that the budget is an important bill, full of positive things for the country: it supports recovery; it really deals with the health of citizens by allocating large resources on the subject of health at such a difficult time of emergency and pandemic as the current one; it puts investments in place to help recovery; it helps the workers and the weakest of our society. I believe that it must be said with great clarity and emphasized the fact that, in a country where differences and inequalities have increased - a country that, as we were explained the other day, is first in the ranking in this - and where the purchasing power of wages has not increased for many years, there has been a significant decrease in the taxes on wages of employees and pensioners; the bonus of 100 euros for incomes up to 15,000 euros has been confirmed; the intervention on bills helps especially the weakest; we intervene on the two most penalized figures in this society: young people and women. I believe that the rule on apprenticeships, which exempts us from contributions, and therefore leads us to overcome the horrible practice of free internships, is an important measure; just as I believe the rule on equal pay for men and women is important. In my view, this is also a fundamental issue. We are talking about significant interventions that are aimed at reducing inequalities. And we did it with a large majority, a majority among different, and I claim these results that I think are important. Similarly, I consider it significant to claim that, in this draft budget law, there are very important choices on welfare. We define the universality of social shock absorbers that were not universal, and we began to do so with the pandemic because it was not so before. Today the self-employed and workers of the companies under 15 employees will be able to count on the social shock absorbers, on the Cassa Integrazione, on the support in the most difficult moments. Again, I claim the work we've done. Moreover, the idea of extending the Social Bee, and therefore anticipating the pension and pension for construction workers and other categories such as ceramists, is an important measure in my opinion, which looks at this as a draft budget law which, on social and labour issues, makes progress on reducing inequalities. Then there is the choice of the superbonus, the repetition, the support, the increase of the resources: it is an extraordinary opportunity for the country, for the companies, from the point of view of both the possibility to work and the opportunity to innovate. Today we have the opportunity to encourage all companies to innovate, because thinking about energy efficiency, the technologies that serve for alternative energy, for heat pumps and other systems, means pushing them to innovate, to put themselves on the market with the strength of a technological capacity and innovation never had in the past. Of course, superbonus also means protecting the environment and the safety of our building and it means, overall, the social quality of the city. Mr President, I shall conclude by quoting the issue of justice. Contrary to Senator Balboni, I think one thing needs to be acknowledged to the Government: I think it is important that resources have been allocated to solve the problem of the honorary judiciary, to give it answers and certainties and to overcome the infringement procedure. I think that the Government, in full autonomy, has assumed the responsibility of choosing how to use those resources and we take note of them. We would have liked that amendment to be discussed with Parliament, which has been working on reform for some time, but the government has chosen another way. We would have preferred a road involving Parliament: let us see if that road will have the effect of overcoming the risk of European infringement and collecting the demands of the associations. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, in conclusion, this is a maneuver that is the daughter of the work of synthesising a large and unprecedented majority. It was a positive job, which served and served Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u93	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u94	Mr President, at the beginning of this debate - as my colleague Senator Barbaro reminded us - you recognized the dignity of responsible opposition, which sounds a bit like the honour of arms. This dignity of responsible opposition is dictated by the fact that the Brothers of Italy Group has tabled over 700 reasoned, common sense and propositive amendments to the draft budget law, when we were still hoping to make some improvements. Colleagues, we have not presented thousands, like the majority forces, but over 700 reasoned and it is useless for you to tell them here. Perhaps you recognize the dignity of opposition responsible for our presence in the Commission, of course, when the meetings took place, because - as we know - the Commission has been continually disconcerted and paralyzed by the vetoes crossed between the majority forces. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide a sense of frustration, even when we look around here, in this depopulated House, for the times, for the ways, for the way we get here today and because we can never improve what is most important to the nation. And we put it all, from common sense to good will. We have put it all together, but we are going to fight against a rubber wall and the feeling, which affects everyone and not only the opposition, is that Parliament is progressively emptying itself, its demeaning and its humiliation. I want to remember then that the Government of the best has led us here, while the maneuver for 2019, with the yellow-green government, was presented on October 31, 2018, was approved on December 8, 2018 by the Chamber of Deputies, was approved by the Senate with changes - good times! - on 23 December 2018 and was finally approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 30 December 2018. The maneuver for 2020, of the yellow-red government, was presented to the Senate on November 2, 2019, was approved on December 16, 2019 - good times also those, I would say - and was approved without modifications by the Chamber of Deputies on December 24, 2019. The maneuver for 2021, launched by the post-pandemic yellow-red government, was presented to the Chamber of Deputies on 18 November 2020, approved on 27 December 2020 and approved by the Senate, without amendment, on 30 December 2020. Well, the government of the best has the worst record of the times of presentation and management of this maneuver. In fact, the road map of the draft budget law, which is almost laughable today, provided for the following: on 28 October the Council of Ministers adopted the draft budget law, which was supposed to have been sent to the Senate on 2 November. As everyone knows, this was not the case and in that road map a possible approval was assumed at first reading here at the Senate between 13 and 17 December and a possible definitive approval to the House between 20 and 23 December. Read today the road map makes you laugh, if not crying, because that's the story. How well we know and I hear it, among other things, from representatives of the majority. Evidently we are not negative, morbid and sick visionaries; indeed, we have tried to contribute, but the objective reality is frightening and that is what we are telling ourselves here today, among a few close ones. This was the method, or rather the absence of method, and then I will also talk about merit. I want to include only one argument, not a marginal one - in our opinion - before we get to the merits of the bill. We have tabled an amendment and then an agenda which has been adopted in the Commission: I am referring to the tampon tax note, namely Article 4. It is clear that we note that the Government has included in the budget law a significant change in the VAT rate, from ordinary to 22% to reduced to 10%, for non-compostable women's hygiene products, as the others already enjoy a reduced VAT. This is in line, inter alia, with the European Community Directive on the common system of value added tax, which provides that Member States may apply one or two reduced rates, not less than 5%, for the supply of goods and services of certain categories. In addition to pharmaceutical products, women's hygiene products are also mentioned. So, in the draft budget law, we have gone from 22 to 10%. I would point out that this argument, the tampon tax, has been calculated not by me, but by Istat: we are talking about an audience of women affected, of course of childbearing age, of almost 13 million. They are the same women who have suffered the consequences of the pandemic and of the Covid, who may have paid a high price to the pandemic, who may have lost their jobs; they are the same women who I always hear invoke as victims but, when it comes to helping, the arguments fail. We have the arguments. [[Applause]] This is an element among many. Why not? Why not make an extra effort? All right; we appreciate that the rate has been reduced from 22 to 10%, but why not from 10 to 5%? This is not a voluptuous asset. Do you remember the financial one that cut the VAT on truffles, which I don't think is a necessary asset? On a necessary good like this, instead, you have the short arm. I think that 10% is not enough and should go down to 5%. Given that the agenda has been adopted in terms of evaluation, we hope that you will really evaluate it and take an act of courage, which would put us on the European line. France has already fallen to 5.5%, Germany to 7%, Belgium to 6%, Portugal to 6%, Ireland, of course, intervened before the 2006 directive and even cancelled VAT. Johnson, in the UK, had lowered it to 5% before and now canceled it and sold it as an effect of Brexit. So we are talking not about irrelevant things, but about recognition, support, help and a signal to women, because it is a necessary and not a voluptuous good - I repeat -. It's an effort you can make. I would point out that we have made the same reasoning of lowering the rate and reduced the rate to 5% for early childhood products, which are so many and very expensive, and that would help families. When I hear about demographic winter, in fact I think the situation is much more serious: we are in complete demographic emergency because the children no longer make them. Then, when there is the budget law, lower the VAT rate to 5% on early childhood products. Do we want to help those who want to make children, or do we just want to preach when it doesn't cost us anything? [[Applause]] It would have been nice to bring concrete instruments and ideas into the budgetary law container if there had been a serious and close confrontation. Unfortunately, I have run out of minutes at my disposal, but we would have much more to say. Fratelli d'Italia has tabled over 700 amendments on many topics, but it is sad to have to point out that sincerely from Mario Draghi it was expected a little'more'. Financial maneuvering is not the masterpiece of this President-in-Office of the Council: it is an exercise in accounting. It is not a work of reasonableness done on the basis of the real needs of the nation. For example, Brothers of Italy asked to focus the cut on the tax wedge, on the cost of labour to support businesses. We have made concrete proposals and nothing at all. Probably the budget law is only the effect of a downward compromise of opposing forces with different ideas that want to be together and that, however, they can do nothing together. The compromise at the bottom produces the absence of a vision: there is no political vision in this maneuver; there is no revival for the nation because there is no love for the Italian nation and for what we call homeland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u95	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u96	Mr President, I would like to refer to the speech made by my colleague, Mrs Rauti, who has pointed out on time that the demographic issue is a matter to be addressed carefully. In fact, I was also surprised by Mr Nugnes' speech about half an hour ago on this subject. It is not enough actually to make a profession of intent. We often hear speeches from President Draghi or from the White Minister of Education or from other members of the Government. But if solutions are not actually put in place, it is clear that words remain in the wind. In this maneuver with the amendments we have tried to give a perspective in this direction. It is also important at this moment to highlight a passage made by one of our MEPs, Mr Procaccini, who, just a few days ago, filed a resolution asking the Commission, chaired by Ursula von der Leyen, to pay attention to this issue by proposing possible solutions or the first steps. It is clear that it is a vision - as Mrs Rauti said - which will require short, medium and long-term action. The proposal made in the European Commission is to allocate quotas of EU funds to the Member States to meet these needs. As we have seen from the latest data Istat, Italy records, from January 2021 to September 2021, 1,17 children per woman. We were about 1.59 the previous year. The collapse was sudden, taking into account the fact that, at European level, the average is 2.1 as a replacement threshold, in order to allow for a generational replacement. That is why, among the many proposals that we consider to be important, in addition to those already put in place such as the construction of kindergartens or school canteens, there is that of parental leave or, better, optional abstention from work. It is a measure to be proposed for men and women, but we know very well that, between the monthly compensation of men and women, there is a gap of about 30%, clearly at the expense of women. Therefore, it is clear, in view of the opportunities, such as the one currently in force, of parental leave up to six months of the child's age with a reduction in the salary of 70%, which of the two sexes will make the most use of it. Anyway, that's not just the point. The point is also linked to a pedagogical need, to the harmonious growth, even serene, of the child and, above all, to give the opportunity to families and young couples to choose the most appropriate solution to their life situation. This could also be accompanied - as many have also noted and as Brothers of Italy often says - by the lowering of the tax wedge, but also by an intervention for small and medium-sized enterprises, and therefore for entrepreneurs, at the time when the recruitment takes place. Clearly, the employer who makes use of such a measure will have to replace the missing figure. Why not think - for example - of a priority for young graduates or new graduates, whom we see migrating on time? This is an important aspect. When we talk about demographic winter, in the collective imagination one simply dwells on the birthday, which is not so simple. But the phenomenon is not just that. The phenomenon also includes youth migration. We are talking about young people from 19 to thirty-nine years old, a generation that represents the heart of a nation; just that age group that has a significant impact on the economy of a country, stimulating also the induced. So, why see them flee and not start thinking together about a possible solution? As we wanted to show, the amendment was not even considered, but there was the possibility of turning it into an agenda. It must not be the contentment, however, the agenda, to give the possibility to Guy, Caius and Sempronio to make a small press release for a moment of glory. The agenda, with the formula "to evaluate the opportunity" is a very clear investment to the Government, which cannot pretend to forget or to keep in the drawer. This means that it is hoped that certain potential solutions will be taken into account in the next steps. And why not also think of the contribution that Brothers of Italy can give in this direction? We know very well how Giorgia Meloni and the whole party are attentive to this issue, attentive to the needs of young people and families. On this point I refer to another subject, which we have tried to represent with decisive amendments, namely that of teachers who have been calling for years to return to their places of origin. They are teachers who have been destined, due to the famous algorithm of the law n. 107 of 2015 launched by the Renzi Government, and who have been waiting for years to return. An amendment is also linked to the fact that in this historic moment the unions and the government should review and rewrite together the new national collective agreement supplementing them. The proposal was for extraordinary mobility, since the school year has begun for three months and, therefore, it would still be in time. You may wonder what relationship there is with the demographic winter: there is, indeed! We have divided families, and this concerns not only the husband and wife, but also the children within the same family. Often we see a separate management of the children (who remains with the father, who with the mother) and you understand very well that many also have difficulties that are not given the necessary weight, in addition to those known: i.e. the objective expenses that teachers have to bear for food and accommodation, in addition to the psychological weight. Let us also consider that the human being is one: the psychic, spiritual and physical dimensions are not in themselves, but are intersected, play in harmony; so not allowing a serene life to teachers dealing with human resources will clearly affect even the formative offer. We had also paid attention to the fragile workers, particularly those of the school, but it would be to be extended to all. We witness a confusion that is generated, confusing exceptional health surveillance with the judgment of the competent doctor. Basically we asked for an intervention on Article 26 of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, the so-called Italian decree cure, proposing a modification in such a way as to consider the abstention from work because of non-computable fragility - excuse the play of words - in the compose, that is, in the evaluation of the maximum absences for diseases, and to modify the Information System of Education (Sidi). I conclude by saying that in five days' time the three years from the earthquake of Santo Stefano of the Province of Catania will be over; on this too we have tabled an amendment that has had a favourable opinion from the Ministry of Economics and Finance (MEF), from the Department of Home Italy and also within Decree-Law No 121 of 2021 had the same results. However, I was told by the Deputy Minister that an amendment costs. You tell me if this way the government doesn't disown itself. We will see if it has been merged within the amendments for the earthquake, because otherwise it would be really unacceptable; in fact, it would allow to extend the legislation used today to Central Italy for the post earthquake reconstruction also to other territories, such as Campobasso and the nine municipalities of the Province of Catania. Rejecting such a measure, among other things proven in all its forms, means manifesting insensitivity towards the earthquake victims who are waiting to return to their homes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u97	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u98	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget law is worth EUR 30 billion and at the beginning of its process in this branch of Parliament, for our agriculture and for all our agri-food, it was intended to be a total value of EUR 3.5 billion, if we also consider all the social security aspects, with the following breakdown: 1.3 billion in 2022, 1.2 billion in 2023 and one billion in 2024. I quote just one fact that I believe is important to understand also the social and social security value of this draft budget law. The new employment social insurance (so-called Naspi), which is an unemployment benefit intended to provide income support protection for employees with an employment relationship (employees), is valid in this budget law, for 2022, 250 million euros. Therefore, thousands of employees in the sector will have the opportunity to benefit from it. Let us always remember that in the agricultural sector it is worth the generational replacement, because many young people replace, also and especially for the usurping jobs, the employees of the agricultural sector. And this is an accompanying function and above all aid and support towards retirement. In the initial text there were very important measures: the enhancement of the competitiveness of the supply chains, the exemption of the INPS contribution for young people, the green bonus for the next three years. Among the most important measures identified in the draft budget law is certainly the national mutual fund, which will have a value of 690 million euros until 2027 and will accompany the national solidarity fund. The real value of this measure lies in the fact that agriculture is now at risk and the fund prevents the risks arising from natural disasters, drought, floods and frost. This is important because today our farmers are no longer making sure that, in the face of a premium, although 50% of the national solidarity fund has been cut, there is a 30-40% allowance which does not allow them to recover not only the lost harvest, but even the expenditure. The integration of this mutual fund is very important and we will already see a very important fund in 2022. [[Applause]] Among the measures already mentioned by my colleagues are the financing of the National Forestry Strategy. For this fund, started in 2018 with the then minister Gian Marco Centinario, there is a budget of 420 million euros until 2032. And this is very important. I believe that good work has been done in the Commission and that we have committed ourselves, starting with the fundamental amendment, which we believe to be, concerning recruitment to the Agricultural Research Council and the analysis of the agricultural economy (Crea), which is the public centre, strong and true. I also recall the amendment on the replantation of plants resistant to xylella. It is essential to give the territories concerned important alternative facilities. Then I think of the support for the breeding of fur animals (the minks). I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Bossi, who has been very committed to this, as well as to the ban on the emissions of alloctonous fish species. In doing so, we will be able to give back to national fishing a real value that had been lost in the last year. Nobody has been able to get their hands on it: we have done so with this amendment, which is worth EUR 150,000 for 2022 and EUR 150,000 for 2023. [[Applause]] We will give the answers to our fishermen, great enthusiasts of the territory who are also the guardians of the environment, because near where they fish they can also be the sentries of the territory. Another important amendment, promoted by Mr Zuliani, concerns the promotion of the territory through the wine QR code on labels. Those who buy a bottle of wine in the world will be able to identify, through the QR code, the country of origin, in addition to the characteristics of the vineyard. This is a very important measure. We have succeeded, all together, in approving a fund for the cunicola meat supply chain, which is worth EUR 30 million. This sector, so important at national level, has had a huge problem: on the one hand, it has lost competitiveness due to the costs of raw materials and energy costs, also and especially in farms, logistics and transformation; on the other, it has grown a disease that has brought all farms to their knees. Consequently, this support will allow Italian farmers to continue to produce well, in a healthy and healthy way, as they are able to do. I am also thinking of the beekeeping industry, nuts and the enhancement of UNESCO's cultural sites. There is, then, an amendment, to which all the groups - I believe - held, concerning the reduction of excise duty on beer; an important value, which will allow our brewers, authors of this extraordinary Made in Italy, of real productions, which everyone envies in the world, to be able to reduce production costs and have enough revenue to cover production costs. Could we do more? Yeah, I think we could have done more. There are amendments which have not been adopted and which are of extraordinary importance. I am thinking of the National Association of Bonifices and Irrigations on Invades, worth 2 billion euros, very important, but we did not have the resources available. Let us also think of the amendment concerning milk quotas: in the farming system this is a scourge, because the faults of fathers fall on their children. This is a very important issue that we must not underestimate, because many companies under foreclosure will live a Christmas different from what we and many other Italian citizens will live. Let's give, then, a support, a helping hand to those in need. We need to give a voice to those who don't have a voice. On the other hand, I must remember that we have the strength, the energy to do things. More could also be done on fauna, with the amendment to Law No 157 of 1991, also called for by Minister Patuanelli. We have not succeeded, even in this budget law, but we will have to do so. The register of cereals loading and unloading will also be introduced into a bill of thousandprorogues, because it will be important... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause. Comments by Senator Bergesio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u99	I thought he was done. I gave her a few more seconds, but if you still have something to add, do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u100	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). I just wanted to wish our farmers, our producers and families who work for a merry Christmas from this House, with the confidence and hope that through this budget law we will give them some more satisfaction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u101	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u102	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, many speeches have highlighted the many important things that exist in this draft budget law, which - like all important measures - has had a tiring and challenging gestation, but then an acceleration because - as the old motto says - the motorbike is finally faster, said in Italian. I would like to highlight a number of measures, among others, which concern the security and defence sector. In 2010 - there was a center-right government - the specificity of the security and defence sector was sanctioned; with that law of eleven years ago it was wanted to establish the principle that the members of the Forces of the Order do not carry out a job like that of the others: it is a much more exhausting job, in which the risk of losing life is greater than that that that is run in other ordinary activities. Being a cop, a carabiniere or a financier is a risky and challenging activity. Then he wanted to establish specificity. At the time the representatives of the trade union bodies in the sector demanded more resources: a specificity without resources is a moral recognition. We announced that choices would be made; for example, the sector was excluded from the application of the Fornero law, because of course it was not possible to apply social security rules with a too advanced exit age to those who carry out a exhausting activity. In this draft budget law, I would like to stress Article 27, which establishes, precisely on the social security issue, a fund for equal treatment measures of a social security nature for the staff of the armed forces, the police forces and the firefighters' corps. We must also protect their social security destiny, because, however, with the calculations made today of pensions, there is a risk that people who have started working now will retire with small allowances. We know that economic appropriations are not enough, but a principle of specificity has been established. Article 27 goes into the wake of that 2010 law, which the center-right wanted. For these people, men and women, we need equalization, integration and the possibility of providing supplementary benefits. There are appropriations for the coming years, which will have to be supplemented. I also hope that a legislative proposal will be adopted to strengthen this direction, which we have signed together with many parliamentarians from all the Groups; Senator Pinotti has promoted it and has signed it as members of all the Groups. The measure referred to in Article 27 goes in this direction. Over the last few hours there has been a lot of discussion - for example - about recruitment for the security and defence sector, and during the night an amendment has taken shape which stems from amendments that I myself have signed, together with other colleagues from Forza Italia, but that other groups have also supported and signed. There are significant numbers allocated for recruitment to review the police force's staff. There are appropriations that continue and increase from 2022 up to 2032, with the possibility of hiring in the police forces by way of derogation from ordinary assumptions. In recent days we have all seen that, when it was decided to make a wider use of health certificates, otherwise called green passes, it has entrusted control not only to local police, but also to national police forces and the armed forces, which fall under these measures and measures. In the budget law, action is also taken to refinance some of the benefits of the safe roads operation. The military in the streets not only lightens the police forces of many tasks, but also cooperate in activities related to China's virus emergency. The control of the health certificate requires greater commitment and action; rightly, the summits of the Viminale and other ministries had called for action. The budget law also gives answers in this direction. It is therefore a very positive fact, to which the action of Forza Italia and the unitary action of many areas of Parliament have contributed a great deal. There are therefore interventions on social security, in keeping with the specificity, and interventions on recruitment. Then an important initiative was launched, with another amendment approved in the last hours, the result of amendments that I myself, Forza Italia and other Groups have tabled, with a very broad and cross-cutting will: a fund has been established for the legal protection of the representatives of the Armed Forces, the Police and the Firefighters' Corps, through insurance policies, to prevent that, following harmful events (but not of course arson) that occurred in the performance of the service, they must also bear - as often happens - legal expenses and other charges of various kinds. We believe that disputes can arise in the exercise of activities. If there is a dole, of course the criminal principle is valid, to which no one is taken; but in other cases it is necessary that the staff who serve public security in uniform and can also be that of the armed forces, in addition to that of the Carabinieri, the State Police, the Guardia di Finanza and the Fire Department, can be protected and safeguarded. This fund has therefore been set up, with a breakdown table; there is also the prison police in all these measures and I would like to remind you of that. So there is a concrete intervention; still more will have to be done on health protection and on other chapters. I would like to highlight in this speech the focus on the security and defence sector, which is also awaiting the conclusion of the contract. The new Government and Minister Brunetta have reopened negotiations for the contract, which expires at the end of this year. There was no proper and timely negotiation by the previous governments and now the government in office is doing so, and I am also thinking in the light of these signals from Parliament and the budget law on concrete issues, such as actions for legal protection of staff and recruitment for staff who sometimes fail to meet too many commitments. I imagine and hope that these factors will help the current Government to close the contract for the security and defence sector, also because we are at the end of 2021 and the three-year period was 2018-2021 and, therefore, we will have to put hands on the contract 2022-2024 and fill a delay. How many times in these classrooms we shoot everyone standing in moments of emotion and homage to the commitment of the police forces or - God forbid - when sad and dramatic events happen. We always say that we must not confine ourselves to applause, but we must move on to the facts. At this moment there is certainly no emotional pathos, but there are operational rigor and concreteness in supporting resources. Our Group, myself and other colleagues, have always been attentive to these needs. Obviously the security factor and the people factor in uniform is one of the characteristic elements. But there are also many other aspects. I would also like to recall another proposal that came from Forza Italia - certainly there will have been other colleagues too, but I remember our amending proposals - so that the policy of building bonuses would also intervene on the removal of architectural barriers, helping the world of disability, of which we have spoken in these hours by approving a law delegation with a chorus of due consent, in the bill of budget, in the rewriting of the part of the building bonuses that is of absolute importance. We have very much supported the extension and strengthening of bonuses, the fact that it was not the villas of the rich, but the one-family houses that are often found in the countries of Italy of the thousand villages. [[Applause]] The population living in small towns is more numerous than that living in metropolitan areas. We have sometimes defended the building bonus for single-family homes. I remember that the rich guy, in the end, doesn't wait for the bonus to improve his home. Often it is also the country houses or those houses that families rediscover over time because the years pass and sometimes inherit one of these properties is more trouble than an advantage. It is in fact a tax burden and it is also a moral duty not to abandon them. And then in the bonus policy, which we have strongly supported, we wanted to include the removal of architectural barriers by providing appropriations. Modernisation of the building system also helps to remove obstacles and difficulties that are still so many not only in public buildings, but also in private homes, which prevent effective equality between citizens. I wanted to remind you of these concrete aspects. There are so many others on which other Members will be speaking in the next few hours. We will therefore vote with conviction in favour of the maneuver, having contributed with a sense of responsibility to strengthen fundamental points for the life of the country. In conclusion, I want to dedicate my speech in particular to the people in uniform who work so hard for the national community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u103	This last dedication, Senator Gasparri, finds me very close to his words. Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u104	Mr President, I am always proud and proud when I can take the floor and represent my party, the Brothers of Italy. Today, however, they are particularly so because it is a historic day for all the free Italian professionals. Today, thanks to the commitment of each of us, thanks to the commitment of Brothers of Italy and the will of Giorgia Meloni, who decided to dedicate all the financial resources that he had available for the Italian liberal professions, after twenty years of battles of trade union associations, of category, of social security funds, the free professionals recognized the right to health. Many people do not know, but unfortunately, until yesterday, this right was not granted to freelancers. Freelance professionals who became ill or injured had not only to pay for the consequences of the accident, but also to pay for the sanctioning consequences of the impossibility of being able to carry out their profession. They therefore had to compensate their customers for the penalties imposed by the State on them as a result of the trader's illness. A scandalous thing, considering that we are in an era of civilization; a scandalous thing that was pointed out by everyone and considered as such, but that was not regularly able to change. The Brothers of Italy Group has succeeded on its own; we must say with pride that it has succeeded alone in winning this battle of civilization for 2 million Italian professionals. It was therefore an important day for us and a thank you goes to each of us - let me say it - and of course to our leader Giorgia Meloni. Having said that, I would also like to extend warm, heartfelt, sincere thanks to each Member of Parliament and, above all, to each Member of the Budget Committee, by a majority and by opposition, for in fact they had to remain twenty-four hours, even more, stuck in the Commission in order to try to get to this House with approved amendments and with a contribution from Parliament to what the Government had done. If this had not happened, today we would have found ourselves having - and approving in the next few hours - a draft budget law in which parliamentarians, that is the democratic expressions of political life, could not have said a word. Once again, I must say thanks to my party and I believe that it is the whole parliamentary arc that must recognize the constructive and serious opposition of the Brothers of Italy that we have allowed the majority to come to Parliament with a work carried out by the Commissions. It would have sufficed for an opposition, as many have been in the past (I just have to think of the noisy oppositions of the past legislatures), to have wanted to make populism and Parliament would have been completely exonerated from every role, leaving the government the absolute and total paternity of the budget law: I remember that it has never happened in parliamentary history. Once again, therefore, Brothers of Italy had a responsible and constructive role in the interest of the country. Certainly these thanks and recognitions to my party and to all the Members of the Commission who - I repeat - have worked nightly, unfortunately cannot be addressed to the Government. I am sorry that, at this moment, a colleague sits among the benches of the Government for whom I have deep esteem, but who today, for the role he plays, represents the so-called "best" government. I say to the government, no, we're not. My colleague, Senator Pichetto Fratin, we are not on your own responsibility - I have said this several times and it is well known the report of esteem that binds us - but because unfortunately it is not acceptable for the government to operate not thinking of the time necessary for the evaluation of Parliament, not thinking of the fact that Parliament has not only the right, but has the civic and political duty to interact with the Government in the execution, in the approval, in the improvement of the laws and, in particular, of such a fundamental measure as the budgetary law. Not only are we late (the draft budget law was presented on 12 November, really late), but even this month nothing has been done to get the Commissions to work. We have come to this night, on 20-21 December, to see the Commission's first vote, namely Parliament's first vote on budgetary manoeuvre: this is unacceptable. It is unacceptable for those Members who have had to make absurd timetables, but above all because, with all good will, we cannot do in one night what could be done in one or two weeks. It is unacceptable even to the employees and managers of the Ministries and the bodies of the State, who obviously had to give their opinion on the amending proposals and who were also forced to work badly and quickly. As for the so-called government of the best, I hope so much that President Draghi, with the respect that Brothers of Italy recognizes him as a person, wants to get a little' into the humility that every citizen must have and understand that the parliamentary organs are not an optional at the disposal of someone, but are a necessity for the institutions to function and carry out their role. Specifically, I use the last few minutes I have available to enter into the merit of some issues we would have liked to see another attitude. Mr Deputy Minister, I remind you that this Government, in the recent tax decree-law, had made a precise and punctual commitment to Brothers of Italy. Also in that case, Brothers of Italy, with a sense of responsibility, had presented a challenging agenda in time and in the end, with Parliament, not "to evaluate the opportunity" but to do a certain thing. That certain thing, Mr President, was the postponement of the collection of the records for disposal-b and balance and deletion; a commitment that the Government had made with us, therefore with the Italians, for the budget law. Unfortunately, nothing has been done in this draft budget law, despite the fact that we have mentioned it several times. You have missed a commitment not so much with us, but with those millions of Italians who find themselves having to pay in a few days what had been suspended for a year and a half: it is unacceptable in merit and method because, when it makes commitments, a government must keep them, Dragons or not Dragons; anyone is obliged to be consistent with the word given. I shall conclude with two concepts, Mr President. You have tribulated so much about the superbonus, but did it take so long to understand that on this issue we need certainty of the times, simplification and obviously recognition of the value of the transfer of the tax credit? That is all we asked of you, we asked of you many, and unfortunately you have done too little in this direction as well. Time does not allow me to say anything else. However, I would like to reiterate our position on these issues and call on the Government in the near future for greater respect for the parliamentary institutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u105	Colleagues, we have been a little longer, if you can stay on schedule, all the senators present in this House will speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u106	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u107	Mr President, I would also like to try, given that we have been very close. That it would be a disappointing maneuver there were all the preconditions, and, unfortunately, what we had anticipated occurred: the Government has downloaded its delay of presentation, for the umpteenth time, on Parliament, and in the last week we have seen a really very regrettable theater, in our opinion, for a Parliament that already has an abnormal configuration, with a majority of 95%, and that, for the internal discords of the majority, compresses the space of confrontation in the place of this Member. We have already seen that some of the amendments tabled, more than 85% came from the majority area: practically a maneuver to be remade, according to the same majority. As all the speakers have pointed out, we have tried, as usual, to interpret the role of patriotic opposition and to give qualified contributions. We must say, with pride, that in addition to the result that Mr De Bertoldi has represented, we are pleased that the Government has finally listened to us, also financing controlled mechanical ventilation in schools. It is a model immediately put on the field by our governor of the Marches, Aquaroli, that we have been proposing to the Government for months, so that it can be taken to all Italian schools. Of course, however, bitterness remains, always with reference to the school, for the lack of capacity and also the willingness to intervene in some areas, which have long been waiting for response. There is great disappointment about the partial extension of the Covid staff of the ATA staff: with what has been allocated, we do not know how we think of facing its needs. As my fellow Senator Drago said, there is a whole question of mobility, both of teachers and of school leaders. No reply shall be given to the Directors-General of the Administrative Services, with an increase in their administrative allowances. Then there is the question of the enabling paths: in the school we have many precarious, that they would be ready to be put in role and to fill the available spaces - there are - to make sure that the Italian school has adequate staff, seen above all how much it has suffered in recent times. Then there is the question, which we really do not understand, of the suitable STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), which have supported a competition and which have been waiting for a long time to be stabilized. We do not understand why all political forces give them solidarity to chat and then instead do not take a sacrosanct decision, which does not have a significant cost. Similarly, the speeches concerning culture and sport, which Mr Barbaro has already mentioned, are very disappointing. I would also like to dedicate a passage to the question of local authorities and the refinancing of the functions of the Provinces, through an absolutely inadequate allocation, which solves absolutely nothing. In this regard, also in the light of the elections held last weekend, I would like to reiterate the need to reform the Provinces. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u108	Senator Papatheu, your voice surpasses that of my colleague Iannone on the microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u109	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, it is the effect of the mask and congestion. As I said, seeing an election in which politicians vote other politicians, in the indifference of citizens, is truly mortifying, when these bodies still have fundamental functions, which concern schools and provincial roads. The €510 million plan for 94 entities, spread over three years, is therefore not a decisive response. In the same way, in our opinion it is a palliative one that is put on the field for the metropolitan cities, through a brainic mechanism, with which in our opinion we pay an electoral bill, which does not save either Naples, nor other cities, because it is evident that to face the burden that comes from years of administrative imbalances would require many other interventions, in order to ensure that these administrative realities, which represent the first institutional interface of the citizens on the territory, can have administrators in the condition of really acting, from the political and administrative point of view. So, let's make an extremely negative judgment on the maneuver. As Senator Rauti said, it is an operation of accountantry, but I would also add, in some cases, of salumery, given the tips that are provided within the text. Regardless of who the new Head of State will be, it is evident that this Government, with its contrasting majority, has exhausted its life and seems more and more like a giant with clay feet. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u110	Thank you, too, for the summary.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u111	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u112	Mr. President, I was here eagerly waiting. I must say that the condition is exceptional, also because the Government is represented authoritatively by my friend and colleague Picchetto Fratin, Deputy Minister for Economic Development, then there are colleagues from Forza Italia, the rapporteurs, a representative of the redivive Communist Party, as well as of course my colleague Tiraboschi. So, it's a unique and exceptional opportunity. It is an extremely important draft budget law, which enters a particular moment in the life of Italians. First one of the speakers, Senator Vasco Errani, called this a moment of unexpected growth. It was probably a growth to plan, or rather, a growth that someone had planned. I don't know if the Covid was a new instrument, or an instrument that happened by chance. Surely, it was an instrument that took tens of thousands of people from this land, sacrificed families, sacrificed an already ill economy in a historical moment, but opened the eyes of a political system, national, European and international, that probably the economic systems thought up, controlled and regulated up to that time, were no longer right to exist. Having unlocked a system, unfortunately only after a serious problem such as the pandemic, has caused an economic rebound - arriving at our opportunity today - that we cannot overlook. Attention, because economic rebound is a matter and we must be able to grasp it and make it structural. Now, to think that Italy can grow in the next five years by 6.2 percent would mean approaching the growth of the last ten years of the People's Republic of China, which would seem at least a bit difficult and complicated. However, the measures put in place and the systems which have been dismantled and which have enabled the exploitation of the national and European economic system must serve the structuring of companies, of our society and make us seriously interested in the future, not in the present. I quote Mr Errani again in his introductory speech, when he said that one does not look at the enrichment of this period with negativity, but on the contrary; it must not be an end in itself: it must be a goal for a consolidated future of an economy that obviously has an opportunity. So it is up to us entrepreneurs - I too, even if very small - to look forward with a sense of responsibility. We worked very well. The bonuses I was talking about just now are probably worth more than 100 billion euros in construction. They have been kept free from constraints and wins; much has been done to avoid crises that would occur. We have given a boost to tourism and culture; we have valued what for us in Forza Italia is an essential element: the deep reduction of taxes, a reduction of IRAP, a reduction of Irpef. We fought... ( [[The microphone is switched off automatically).]] We have worked a lot in this direction, but - I repeat - I close as I started: we have an opportunity; we have worked well together, albeit with difficulty and with different opinions; we try to make sure that the country understands and that we understand that this is an opportunity that we cannot miss. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u113	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u114	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is about the most important law that Parliament is approving every year, the budget law. The measure was already good at the start, but it would have been possible to improve, like every time, and for this reason I had tabled more than 30 amendments to my signature. Some inexplicably have not been accepted. I am thinking, for example, of what I was asking for the abolition of the limit for newcomers to buy a car with a certain parameter within the first year, so I can't drive anything. Well, after unlearning what they learned at the driving school for the exam, newcomers may find themselves driving any vehicle. The amendment was at zero cost to the State. It is an absurd measure that has also become anachronistic because of the different way of calculating the ratio between weight and power of cars. However, the amendment was not accepted. Furthermore, the amendment I was asking to remove an anomaly in our system was not accepted, so that pickups, being only registered as trucks, can only be used for the exercise of the business activity and, therefore, could only be carried by employees linked to the activity of that company. On the other hand, we know very well that they are usually used for the transport of persons, with the risk that, in the event of an accident, the transports would not be covered. I was asking to eliminate this anomaly. It would have cost the state zero and almost certainly there would have been revenue for the treasury, a revenue because, being not registered by choice - the current possibility would have remained - as trucks, there would have been no recovery of VAT, nor the deduction of the costs incurred. It would even have been a tax advantage for the state and would have eliminated a problem that unfortunately affects hundreds of thousands of means. In view of my origin, as it was legitimate and logical to expect, most of the amendments concerned the earthquake. Too bad that the measure asking for a derogation for the calculation of organic plants in crater schools was not approved. It was a measure that I had obtained as mayor as early as October 2016, when at a meeting with the then President of the Council Renzi in Arquata del Tronto I pointed out that many of the people forced to leave our places had children who inevitably would have enrolled in other schools and that, therefore, it needed a derogation to prevent the reduction of the services offered from bringing those people back no longer. Unfortunately, this is a problem that has not been solved. Just as it is a pity that we did not accept a first-signed amendment by my colleague, Mr Briziarelli, calling for the establishment of an observatory on earthquakes and how the reconstruction was then managed. Three years ago, in the Commission, I asked to initiate the procedure for an emergency management law. This is because, having lived different directly on my skin, I know perfectly well, even as a former local administrator, how difficult, inappropriate and inconvenient it is to have to start again every time from scratch, without even knowing what the roles are. So, approving an emergency management law before, in peacetime, would certainly allow us to be ready when, unfortunately, another emergency occurs. On the other hand, the legislature is about to end, regardless of whether its deadline will be natural or early, and I am afraid that we will come to the end of the legislature without this law being passed. Too bad. It is an important regret for me - in fact, every time I present this amendment - that the problem of Article 10 of Decree No 189 of 2016 has not been solved, then converted into Law No 229 of 2016, which involves the absurdity that the reconstruction of some private individuals will be paid by other private individuals. The extension of the superbonus suspends and postpones this problem, moving it to the end of 2025 but not resolving it. So, sooner or later, it's gonna have to be solved. So, however, I have already introduced one of the measures that, on the other hand, greatly satisfy me, precisely the extension of the superbonus for the earthquake areas. I immediately pointed out the need for this extension. First of all for reasons of fairness, because it was absurd for me to create the inequality whereby those who chose discreetly to make an intervention using bonuses paid nothing, while those who, instead, were forced to do the intervention because of a natural calamity found themselves having accolades. In fairness, therefore, it was right and proper for this bonus to be extended, also because in the earthquaked municipalities it was often impossible to present the projects. Let's think about the perimeter areas because inside the destroyed historical centers; let's think about the areas affected by a PSR, a special reconstruction plan. All objective conditions, objective impediments, even only for the presentation of the project, so let alone to report within the deadlines provided by law. It was therefore necessary for these bonuses to be extended, also because of the huge increase in the cost of raw materials, which we know well, because it has already directly affected the pockets of all Italian families and, unfortunately, will still do so in the future. This increase has meant that the costs initially assumed are unfortunately no longer current. Therefore, it is an objective necessity for reconstruction. Obviously there are other solutions, requested and obtained, such as signs of attention for the municipalities, such as signs of attention for the productive activities, which found themselves in the condition of having to anticipate the entire cost of VAT. All solutions that were necessary and that were accepted in this maneuver. I take advantage of the time left for a reflection that I propose to the whole of this House. Reconstruction must not remain an end in itself. Unfortunately, in those areas we lost a generation, because many people, almost all of them, were forced to leave in the imminence of the earthquake. Many of those who had children have enrolled them in new schools, from which they could not have eradicated them in order to return to the municipalities of belonging; others were forced to find work outside; still others were forced to leave for the most disparate reasons. However, we have lost people and this lost generation, in municipalities that already have demographic decreases, risks becoming mortal. That is why I propose to the House that we reflect, not so much and not only on reconstruction, which must never become an end in itself, but on a recovery plan for those areas. A plan that must be infrastructural, must be social, must be economic, must be urban, must make sure that, precisely, those areas become attractive not only for those who should return, but also for people who should choose them as a place where to build their own family and their own future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u115	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I will begin my speech immediately by saying that the reasons why I have decided to vote in favour of this draft budget law are innovation and the ability to influence and advance a perspective, which characterises the financial manoeuvre that binds it to the superbonus 110%. Innovation, always at the heart of the political action of the Movimento 5 Stars, and originality will increasingly distinguish the choices of economic policy of the Movimento 5 Stars. Innovation, as you know, distracts everyone a little: at first it is not possible to understand the full potential of a measure, how it will be able to contribute. This partly happened to the superbonus 110%, an extraordinary measure that was introduced in the decree-law relaunched, in May 2020, in pandemic time, thanks to the second Count Government. This measure has left so many unbelievers from the outset, because they wondered how it was possible that zero-cost interventions could be carried out in pursuit of the environmental objective of energy saving. Of course, we never thought that it would be easy to proceed with the superbonus and activate it to the best and as Movimento 5 Stars we have always intervened to improve it. For example, we did so on the occasion of the introduction of the certified works start communication (CILA), which we had already conceived proposing an amendment to the decree-law support in March 2021, which was then incorporated into the decree-law simplifications of July 2021. We certainly did not think that it could be easy, insofar as few people had understood from the beginning that virtuous mechanism, that innovation introduced with the superbonus 110 percent that we all have to remember. I am referring to the mechanism of the discount in invoice and the certification, transfer and circulation of credit to all other building bonuses. This is the true value, this is the true key to reading the superbonus 110 percent. What happened within the present draft budget law in the matter of superbonus 110% is why we supported the birth of the Dragons Government, that is, the ability to affect staying within it. The data are before everyone's eyes: we can say that 2021 is the year in which the superbonus went to speed. It is not us politicians who say that, but various economic bodies, research centres and professional bodies. I would like to mention some of the results of this measure: the latest report of the National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable Economic Development (Enea) to 30 November 2021 states that in Italy from the beginning of the year 70,000 yards have been activated, with an increase of 4,200 percent compared to the beginning of the year, which in terms of investments due to the superbonus mean 12 billion euros (more 6,200 percent compared to the beginning of the year). According to the latest report on the impact of tax incentives in buildings, prepared by the Chamber Studies Service with the Economic and Sociological Research Centre in the Buildings Market (CRESME), between superbonus and various other building bonuses have been generated incentive jobs of 51 billion euros (more 82% compared to 2020). This means firstly that 510,000 jobs have been created and secondly that we have come very close to the objectives of the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan in terms of energy saving. A final study carried out by the National Council of Engineers states that the superbonus will generate a gross domestic product (GDP) of 12 billion euros in Italy for 2021 and an additional 153,000 jobs; precisely on jobs the Observatory focuses on the precariousness of the INPS, according to which, compared to June 2020, 92,000 jobs were activated in the building sector in June 2021, of which 52,000 are permanent employment contracts. Finally, a study by Unioncamere-Infocamere states that over the last two years 30,000 new construction companies have been set up. I could still proceed with the data, but I'd rather stop and figure out where we're going. That this is the right direction has been certified by the European Commission itself with some of its representatives, such as Vice-President Timmermans and Commissioner Simson, according to whom there is no doubt about this extraordinary measure introduced by the Movimento 5 Stars. But now we can move on to the contents of the draft budget law which, together with the anti-fraud decree-law, have ended up disorienting some operators. Unfortunately, some measures have discriminated against others, as well as the mechanism could be feared. The 5 Star Movement proposed a package of amendments (we are talking about more than 20 amendments only on the superbonus) which it shared with the other majority forces and managed to formulate a series of proposals that the Government has largely accepted. Finally, we can count on the following results. The first, much awaited, is the extension to 2022 of the superbonus on single-family houses, without any reference to the ISEE roof, the CILA and the main house, provided that there is a progress of the intense activities pairs 30 percent to 30 June 2022. The second is the extension of the reinforced and replacement superbonus (in earthquake areas) for reconstruction of homes in areas affected by post 2009 earthquakes. The third is the alignment of the expiry of the towed work as for the driving ones, important in order to improve the energy efficiency of the house of two energy classes, as well as to recognize the expenses of the assurances within the tax deductions previewed from the bonuses. Mr President, we have returned to the superbonus the size it deserved. This will enable it to continue to deliver its full potential in terms of economic growth, job generation and environmental protection. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u117	I communicate that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 152 of 6 November 2021, laying down urgent provisions for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) and for the prevention of mafia infiltrations" (2483). The measure was assigned to the 5th Commission, in the referee, with the opinion of the following Commissions: 1a, 2a, 3a, 4a, 6a, 7a, 8a, 9a, 10a, 11a, 12a, 13a, 14a and Regional questions. The aforementioned Commissions are authorized to convene for the examination of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u118	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u119	Mr President, we have just said this: this is a disappointing and visionless draft budget law, as confirmed until the end. It really didn't have to bother Draghi for such a budget law. There is a problem in merit and one in method. The draft budget law arrives in the Chamber on 21 December (we have not yet voted anything): it is the winter solstice, the longest night of the year and also very dark for the Senate, seeing how it is reduced. I see the entire benches of the left defended by the heroic Senator D'Arienzo. In congratulating him, however, I note that this shows that the left is well where the decisions are taken and obviously the seat is not Parliament, otherwise we would have full benches. This is a bad text at the origin, presented by the Government, and remained for long hours in the Budget Committee. Here, too, I would like to open a parenthesis, and I would like to congratulate all the Senators of the Budget Committee... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u120	I understand you're talking to an opposition senator, but since there's only a few of us, we're listening.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u121	Please, Senator Fazzolari. FAZZOLARI (FdI). All those hours in the Commission have been used by the majority forces not to improve the text, but only to try to rip out some marches. This is very sad and not so much for the marchettes. The newspapers have already published several, since there are several and shameful ones: 82,000 euros for the hiring of two employees in a small municipality and one million euros for the renovation of the gymnasium of a specific municipality. One million euros for the energy efficiency of the municipal swimming pool of a municipality, which will be a majority senator. It is truly a shame, and not only for this, but precisely because Parliament has lost its role: it no longer has the ambition to improve a bad government text, but it digests it and ravines what it can in the midst of waste. Sad. Brothers of Italy to this squalor, however, did not descend. We fought, especially thanks to our senators in the Budget Committee, to try to improve the text. With our few forces available to the Senate we have done something; my colleagues have already told it and will tell it tomorrow. I am thinking of the right finally extended to freelance professionals to get sick, without this leading to the lack of tax obligations to which they are bound; I am thinking of the resources allocated to mechanical ventilation for school ventilation. The Covid-19, in fact, thrives especially where there is no recirculation of air: in schools it serves mechanized ventilation, no more nonsense is needed. [[Applause]] We have said this and repeated it, and we have managed to divert some of the unused funds allocated to schools in order to achieve mechanised ventilation, even if more is needed. EUR 10 million for the fund for occupied buildings: we are very proud of this. More than 10 million for a few brands around! If to a residential property owner they occupy the house until today, before the approval of this bill of budget, he continues to be obliged to pay all taxes on that property: the Irpef quota, the IMU quota, if it is not first home, and the Tari quota. Thanks to the Brothers of Italy, since the complaint of occupation of the property is made until that property is freed, taxes on the occupied property will not be due. This was the battle that Parliament could and should have fought in the Commission and not the heating of the communal swimming pool of one of the senators. Unfortunately there was no room for many other battles that Brothers of Italy had tried to bring to the attention of the Italian Parliament. The Italians need work and we have always made proposals, also for this draft budget law. We have proposed to reason on a model that says to companies: more hires, less taxes you pay. It's a common sense thing. With a composite mechanism, we have proposed a super deduction of labour costs for labour-intensive enterprises; as we have the superbonus for depreciation, we make the superbonus for those who hire people in Italy. This facilitates the real economy and disfavors the large economic concentrations, which make profits in Italy without assuming: rejected the amendment. Unfortunately, Gualtieri was wrong when he said that no one would lose his job because of Covid-19; the job was lost in many: employees, craftsmen, traders, VAT matches. Many people have lost their jobs. We then proposed the creation of a fund for the relocation of those who lost their jobs during the pandemic period, through tried and tested systems, i.e. by placing 50% of the employer's social security contributions at the expense of the State. It is a mechanism which, for example, already works for women's employment or youth employment. This, too, seemed to us to be a simple, immediate and sensible measure, but it failed. We have also called for action against unfair competition which is prevalently suffered by our traders. There is an open and closed business mechanism: anyone who knows that the tax authorities take stock of an activity not earlier than two years. Legally, if I open a business, I can safely not pay a euro to the State for twenty-four months, not by doing something illegal, but simply by applying the law. But if I disappear at the end of the two years, the IRS won't track me down anymore. And then there are some small precautions that can be adopted: for those at risk, mainly those who are non-EU (not because one wants to discriminate, but because it is more easily no longer available), to make a security fund or a surety on the taxes that will be due. Another thing at zero cost for anyone is the PEC obligation for corporate administrators. We have a system in which there is a JEP obligation for companies, but there is no JEP obligation for company administrators. This means that I take a wooden head, I make the company, after the two years I close, disappears the company, I have not paid a euro and there is not even the possibility to notify the act. Failure to notify the act means that, for example, the unpaid employee is not even entitled to resort to the INPS for the unpaid TFR. Why did you fail us to demand PEC's obligation for corporate administrators? It cost zero, it would help fight unfair competition, and it would help workers. Unfortunately the time is over and the arguments were many. I just add that Brothers of Italy thinks that Italy needs growth and work; to do this we must help our productive fabric. This draft budget law does not do so and is unfortunately a missed opportunity, not for Brothers of Italy, but for the nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u122	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u123	Mr President, we are unfortunately going to ratify, as a Parliament, an almost untouchable draft budget law. There is certainly both a problem of method and a problem of merit in this budget law. The government has certainly delayed, well beyond the timing of the other years, the arrival in Parliament of this maneuver. The process of this bill has already appeared marked well before it began. It is certainly a budget law that will take trust here and will come armored to the House. As far as the question of substance is concerned, one of the important things is that the disputes within this majority have meant that this manoeuvre has not given any kind of response to companies, which are being extended the existing measures, and not even to taxpayers, who are being persecuted by the Revenue Agency. There has been a tax cut of 8 billion, which will be incisive, while the income of citizenship will be financed. It is a document that has no kind of political vision, precisely because of a quarrelsome majority that did not address the issue of growth, but postponed it. One of the perhaps most important issues could have been the one relating to the superbonus 110%, but unfortunately here too the bureaucracy has limited much the answers. In the last year and a half there has certainly been a will on the part of small and medium-sized enterprises, which in the superbonus 110% had only the opportunity to see their profitability increased; unfortunately the government failed to give important answers. As far as the substance of the issue of the allocation of resources is concerned, it should also be stressed that we continue to finance - as I said before - unproductive expenditure for the country, such as the income of citizenship (although perhaps it has been a little weakened), while we go to limit enormously those measures which were in some way already burdened by uncertainty, but which have represented a flywheel of development for the economy in the last year and a half. I am referring to the 110% superbonus, which, in the current wording laid down in this draft budget law, includes, above all, strong limitations. First of all, the extension until 2025 for the condominiums is not true precisely because if the sburocratizzazione of the measures has not yet happened and at the same time the deduction suffers a decrease with the passing of the years, clearly this measure is certainly not attractive. As far as the issue of superbonus is concerned, I have personally tabled, together with my colleagues, a series of amending proposals to extend these measures and, partly thanks to the work of my group's colleagues in the Budget Committee, the measure has been improved. I hope the cancellation of the ISEE limit of 25,000 euros to access the superbonus for single-family villas will be assured. They will confirm the 30% constraint of the work to be carried out by 30 June 2022, such as the extension of the benefit to the NLUS and the driving interventions. I shall end, President, by saying that the majority certainly did not have courage and did not have a vision for the country mainly because there were these disputes that delayed the approval of the budget very much. A document that without having any kind of political vision will certainly create problems in the coming months and also in the coming years. We as the Brothers of Italy will be vigilant to improve, where possible, all the measures, in this case presenting amendments that can improve the text more and more because the country certainly needs a broad vision. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u124	I thank Senator Nastri for reducing the time of his intervention, just as I did not intervene to allow at least to speak to those present. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u127	The sitting was scheduled to be closed at 8 p.m., but out of respect for the boy with Down's syndrome, which you want to talk about, I can't help but allow your intervention. FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, last week the President of the Republic handed over the certificates of honor of bishop of the Republic to girls and boys who represent positive models of citizenship who engage with valuable actions that deserve recognition. It is with great pleasure and strong emotion that I bring to the attention of the Senate and the Nation the nomination to bishop of the Republic of Antonio Maria Granieri, awarded with the motivation to have become a witness of sociality and friendship in the activity of the association "Down Dadi" in Padua, in support of the compañeros who need more help in the dialogue with their peers. Antonio is an eighteen-year-old boy from Vigonza, in the province of Padua; he is solar and sociable. His family is composed of Mother Angela, Father Francis, sister Teresa and sister Maria Elizabeth. Then grandparents, uncles and cousins wrap him up with all their love. He attends the fourth year of the Hotel Institute in Abano, he likes to go to school because so he can stay with his companions and have fun with them, especially during the cooking workshop. In his free time he practiced two sports, dance and basketball (inclusive basketball). Almost every week he attends "Casa Vela" (Casa Vela), a project of autonomy of the Association "Down Dadi" in Padua. This is where he met his best friends. One of his shortcomings is stubbornness, but this leads him to always want to find a way to help his friends in difficulty. Its most beautiful qualities are in fact goodness and altruism towards anyone, peers and not. A little detail: Antonio has Down's syndrome. In the society of waste it would be relegated to the margins, instead it is the living demonstration that loved, stimulated and valued by the family and by those close to us, we can all be happy and precious to the community. Antonio is an icon of man who in difficulty knows how to enhance the discomfort and becomes close to those who suffer or do not make it. Paraphrasing Don Tonino Bello, Antonio is a boy with only one wing that embraces his brother, also with only one wing, and together they hover towards the highest peaks, those that make life worth living. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u128	Senator Quarto, thank you for your speech, which I support.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u129	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-389.ana.u130	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 22 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.05 p.m.
