ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.07 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous president's day. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to address a moving thought of closeness and condolence to the family, relatives and friends of Senator Stefano Zuccherini, a man of lively intelligence, strong character and great generosity of mind. Historian of the Umbrian and national FIOM-CGIL, Stefano Zuccherini was for many years the most representative voice of the Workers' Movement, for which he never stopped fighting with tireless determination. His experience in politics and institutions began in 1993 with the entry into the Communist Refoundation Party and the subsequent election to the Regional Council of Umbria, an experience that Stefano Zuccherini lived with passion, dedication and consistency of thought. The same passion would take him in a few years to the top of the national secretariat of the party and made him one of his most authoritative figures. This authority was derived from the pride with which Stefano Zuccherini has always defended his ideas, but also his freedom of thought, and with which he lived the political commitment, and it was that of a man who believed in dialogue as the cornerstone of democracy and who looked at confrontation as a critical tool for building and resolving. It is a genuineness of values and a moral richness that Stefano Zuccherini brought to this House as a senator in the 15th legislature, during which he was also Vice-President of the Labour and Social Security Commission, as well as a member of the Assembly of the elections and of the Committee for prosecutions, which he was able to interpret with rigour and deep respect for the Parliamentary Institution. With Stefano Zuccherini he leaves us a politician of heart and courage, a careful reader of social dynamics and a sensitive interpreter of the rights of the weakest, a man who has devoted his whole life to the defence of work, a fundamental link between individual and collective destinies, as he had to define it in this Chamber, in the conviction that no form of social protection can compensate for the impairment of citizenship rights due to the absence of work or produced by precariousness. This vision today, in the midst of the economic and social crisis produced by the pandemic, is an exhortation not to forget that the true path to the rebirth of an Italy so dramatically wounded is the one that starts from the concrete protection of every work. In remembrance of Senator Stefano Zuccherini, I therefore invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2120. Ladies and gentlemen, I will suspend the sitting for a few minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 10.15 a.m. and resumed at 10.30 a.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u8	PAGENO, rapporteur. Mr President, in order to better define the report and to incorporate the amendments, I would ask for a suspension of work until 11.15 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u9	Suspension shall be granted. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.31 a.m. and resumed at 11.25 a.m.) Let's resume our work. I inform you that work has been completed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that, as amendments have been tabled by the Commission, it will take from this moment thirty minutes for the submission of any sub-amendments. The rapporteur, Senator Pagano, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Decree-Law of 5 March 2021, No 25, before the House for the conversion to law, contains urgent measures concerning the conduct of electoral consultations for the year 2021. The measure consists of five articles. Article 1, in view of the continuing epidemiological emergency situation from Covid-19 throughout the national territory, provides that the elections scheduled for the current year shall take place on a date from 15 September to 15 October 2021. The following electoral consultations shall be postponed: elections to municipal and circumscription councils between 15 April and 15 June 2021; supplementary elections to the seats of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic declared vacant by 31 July 2021; local elections in municipalities whose organs have been dissolved due to phenomena of mafia infiltration, even if already held, by means of the complete renewal of the procedure for the submission of lists and nominations; local elections, following the cancellation of the elections to the municipal authorities in certain sections, even if already called for; local elections in municipalities whose organs must be renewed for reasons other than the expiry of the mandate, in the event that the conditions which make it necessary to renew them occur by 27 July 2021; finally, elections to the elected bodies of the Regions under ordinary statute, even if already called for, and those relating to elected bodies for which, by 31 July 2021, the conditions necessary to renew them are met. With an amendment introduced in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, however, the elections of the bodies of the Metropolitan Cities, the presidents of the Provinces and provincial councils have been postponed within the first nine months of 2021, instead of the first six months of 2021, as already foreseen: amendments 1.2 (text 2), 1.3 (text 2) and 1.4 (text 2). In the course of the Commission's examination, Article 1-a was also added to introduce a simplified procedure for the appointment of list representatives in the year 2021: amendment 1.0.1 (text 3). Article 2, on the other hand, provides that for 2021, the minimum number of subscriptions required for the submission of lists and applications shall be reduced to one third for municipal and circumscription elections only. During the examination in the referent were introduced provisions on the election of the mayor and the municipal council in the municipalities up to 15,000 inhabitants. In particular, it is expected that, limited to the year 2021, for the upcoming electoral competitions, by way of derogation from the provisions of paragraph 10 of Article 71 of Legislative Decree No 267 of 2000, where only one list has been admitted and voted, all candidates included in the list and the candidate for related mayor are elected, provided that it has reported a number of valid votes not less than 50% of the voters and the number of voters has not been less than 40% of the voters registered on the municipal electoral lists. If this percentage is not reached, the election is nothing. It is also stipulated that for the determination of the number of voters registered on the municipal electoral lists, account should not be taken of voters registered in AIRE who do not exercise the right to vote (amendment 2.5). Article 3 lays down detailed rules for the conduct of voting and voting. Specifically, voting takes place in two days: Sunday (from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m.) and Monday (from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m.). With regard to the scrutiny of the ballots and the order of ballot, it is laid down that, in the event of a coincidence of supplementary elections by Chamber and Senate with regional or administrative elections, the ballot shall be carried out in the order relating to the supplementary elections and subsequently, without interruption, to that relating to the regional or administrative elections. With regard to common requirements, the provisions for general elections, including those relating to the functioning of section electoral offices, are expected to apply. It is also stipulated that the ballots for each consultation should be completed within 12 hours of their beginning and that, in the event of the regional and administrative elections being coincidental, the ballots for the local elections should be postponed until 9 a.m. on Tuesday, giving priority to the municipal elections and then to the circumscription elections. As regards charges, it is laid down that expenditure resulting from the implementation of common obligations is to be allocated proportionally between the State and the other entities concerned on the basis of the number of their consultations. With three identical amending proposals approved in the Commission it was then arranged that for the year 2021 the legislative decree 6 September 2011, n. 149, article 4, paragraph 6, in the matter of report of the end of municipal mandate will not apply. A further amendment by the Commission introduced the forecast for the 2021 electoral consultations (and only for them) of the opening of the judicial record offices on the pre- and festive days immediately preceding the deadline for the publication of the candidate certificate (amendment 3.0.100 (text 4)). The Commission has also adopted two identical amendments aimed at setting 31 October 2021 as the deadline for the completion of electoral procedures for the renewal of the collegial and monocratic bodies of universities and institutions of high artistic, musical and coreautic education (amendments 3.0.20 (text 4) and 3.0.21 (text 4)). In addition, certain agendas resulting from the transformation of amendments were accepted. In particular, I would like to point out an agenda that commits the Government to assess the opportunity to raise awareness of the regions so that elections will be postponed for the renewal of the boards of directors of the reclamation consortia throughout the national territory (the subject, this, sensitized by many parts of Italy). I also report another agenda that commits the Government to evaluate the extension until the end of the emergency state, with retroactive effect, of the permissions recognized by the mayors in occasion of the epidemiological emergency. Finally, I would like to point out - and this is an important aspect, on which the decision was taken this morning - the agenda that commits the Government to assess with the political forces the application issues of law 9 January 2019, n. 3, regarding the production of the documentation required for applications. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u11	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the measure under consideration, which I naturally believe can only agree with in order to raise in the Senate the representatives of the Government and I hope also to the Minister, Mr Lamorgese, some issues relating to the local authorities that I would like to see debated here or, in any case, brought to the attention of this House for further political and legislative initiatives. The first question relates to the political and economic dignity of local administrators. This was not the measure in which we could include this issue, but in all these years we have had too much of a look at the political and economic dignity of the local administrators. I think of the provincial councillors of the metropolitan cities, who do their work free of charge, I think of the allowances too low for the mayors. These local administrators, who in the past year of pandemics have proved to be the entrenchment of the democratic state in the territory, have embarrassing allowances and salaries. In 2019 we did, also in collaboration with ALI, the former League of Local Autonomies, a first intervention for municipalities under 3.000 inhabitants, meritorious but partial. I therefore believe that the Committee on Institutional Affairs, chaired by the excellent Senator Dario Parrini, should begin to take these events into account, also because on the matter of direct elections for the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities we will have to return sooner or later and we will have to take back into account that the legislation introduced by the so-called Delrio law (No. 56 of 2014) was a bridge regulation, pending the referendum. The referendum of 4 December 2016 did not cancel the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities from the Constitution. Almost five years have passed and we should consider the issue of direct election for the bodies of the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities, bodies that govern important sectors of the territory and to which, among other things, other competences have been attributed, from school, to road, to the environment. We must give those who do that work an economic recognition worthy of that situation. I think that giving way too much to anti-politics and populism that not from today, but from 2011-2012 have overwhelmed the parliamentary institutions is deleterious and therefore I ask that the Parliament and the competent Commissions take over the many legislative proposals that are there and bring them to completion. The last issue is the extension of the possibility of the third term for municipalities under 15.000 inhabitants as we did for municipalities under 3.000 inhabitants. Even for previous events, of which I have said, and for the lack of political and economic dignity of administrators, we find fewer and fewer people willing to engage in local administrations. I therefore think that what we have done for the municipalities under 3,000 inhabitants we must extend, for their function and for the different way of election from the larger municipalities, even to the municipalities under 15.000 inhabitants. We give dignity to local administrators, we start to discuss large-scale bodies such as Provinces and Metropolitan Cities directly elected by citizens, and we also put the question of the third mandate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u13	Senator Pirovano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tried to make a real contribution to this measure precisely by focusing on the problems of the local authorities that Senator Astorre has just mentioned. We have tried to point out the most urgent problems facing our local authorities, especially the smallest ones, although this is obviously not the way to solve the many problems that I hope we will have to deal with in the short term. The Group to which I belong has tabled two amendments, which have been adopted, on the quorum, which is lowered from 50% to 40% in the case of a single list; moreover, the members of the Register of Italians residing abroad (AIRE), who do not exercise the vote, are not counted. We have included these measures in a more general draft law, at the first signature of Senator Augussori, of which I am rapporteur, which does not only refer to this electoral round and which we will deal with once we have completed the examination of the measure in our examination. However, I also believe that presenting and approving these amendments is a failure of the political class of this country, not of the municipalities. In fact, lowering the quorum in case of a single list means that there are more and more administrations in which there are no people who want to run as mayor, as councilman, as city councilman. Asking to do the third term also in the municipalities with more than 3,000 inhabitants or even removing the limit of mandate in the municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants, as we ask why there are contingent problems (I as mayor of a small municipality under 3,000 inhabitants are in the third term and I know it), is still a failure, because it means that there is no replacement of the ruling class, of those who govern a territory. So we need to ask ourselves some questions. It seems that the constitutional arc across the board is in agreement - we have also spoken about this in the Commission - that all the problems of the small municipalities must finally be tackled. We talked about it with the National Association of Small Municipalities of Italy (ANPCI), with the president Franca Biglio, with Massimo Castelli, coordinator small Municipalities of the National Association of Municipalities of Italy (ANCI). There are really many problems and they will not be solved through these amendments, which are only small extemporaneous remedies. We must return to our citizens the desire to apply, to work for their own country, for their own citizenship. If they do not, it is not out of disinterest, but because being mayor carries too much responsibility and at the same time too little gratitude on the part of these palaces. In recent years, the unique text of local authorities has not been revised: we continue to talk about it but never do so. The mayor is responsible for everything: if in winter there is snow and is not cleaned within two hours the mayor is called; if in summer there are floods in the streets, it is the mayor's fault that has not cleaned the falls; if in autumn there is wind or in spring there is some damage due to natural disasters, it is the mayor who has to answer for it. The mayor, however, not only has a responsibility to the citizens, but is also accountable to the law. There are in fact absurd cases in which the mayors, besides having to be responsible for the various offices of the City for lack of employees, because there is no money to hire them (so it is not only a problem of turnover, but of lack of money for current expenses), also have the responsibility because they have the power of control. A dear friend of mine, Mayor Imeri of Treviglio, a Municipality of Bergamo, was sent to trial only a few days ago because, unfortunately, during a mourning caused by a car accident, it was found that a guard rail was not compliant; therefore the mayor, who is not even responsible for the technical office, finds himself held responsible because he has the power of control of the agency. The same happens to the mayors of the small municipalities, who may see a rock fall from a mountain (maybe in the mountain municipalities), and have responsibility even in the event of an accident or even worse than someone's death. You understand that being mayor in these conditions, besides now in full pandemic, is like living with a sword of Damocles on your head. The mayor cannot be responsible for things that do not belong to him, nor should he be responsible for areas of the municipality, since he often has neither the studies nor the professional skills to do so; yet he must do so. We need to find a way to solve these problems, to restore the mayors' dignity. In this year you have not seen protests in the streets and squares by the mayors, even if they may occasionally want to, because they do not have time. They don't have time to complain, they don't have time to protest. They do not have time to ask for things for themselves because they ask for them for the citizens, because when the state - so we, the Government and Parliament - do not give enough economic support to the activities or to the private ones, the latter go to the mayor to ask for economic help. You understand well then that it has become a mission; in a little while only the crazy will probably want to be the mayor or maybe someone not too good that thinks of doing something, maybe in the municipalities a little 'larger because in the small ones there is really little to gain. It is not possible, however, that acting mayor has become a kind of volunteer without any protection. I hope, given that we have a cross-cutting majority and we all agree that the mayors - particularly those of the small municipalities which, I remind you, represent 70% of the Italian municipalities - need to be helped, that we stop talking about them and that we start working seriously to reform the local authorities and stop talking about imposed rules, mergers and cuts. In fact, I remember that mayors are the first to know how to save money where there is to save and how to collaborate with their colleagues and with neighbouring municipalities when it is useful for their citizenship. We must stop imposing rules which, over time, have done absolutely nothing. Speaking of our small municipalities, I also remember that in this dramatic year they were an oasis of peace, if we mean, for so many people who did not find themselves in a studio apartment, on the outskirts of a city, with the problem of shopping and in total isolation. We still have a lifestyle that is to be preserved and valued thanks to our spaces and our services that we provide to citizens. Forgive me if I say "our" but I always feel a little more mayor than parliamentary and I think that this will never happen to me, even if I have another role here. The services that you give in the small municipalities have been fundamental and many people, as you notice, as soon as they can escape, legally or not, in the second houses of mountain, country or sea because living in lockdown in a town of countryside and living in the city is not exactly the same. However, we must help our farmers, our small businesses, our neighborhood shops, which have fed the population. In small municipalities we have no problems of overcrowding the vehicles because at school you go by bicycle or on foot. However, we have the problem of reaching high school because there are no adequate means of reaching the municipalities that have schools. You could really talk about it endlessly. It is good to have good intentions, but I hope that soon we will stop talking and work concretely to show the mayors that all the sacrifices they have made in recent years, and in particular this last year, are appreciated. The mayors do not want a thank-you, but adequate tools to ensure a decent life for their citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u15	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u16	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u17	Mr President, it was a very short general debate, in which only two Members spoke. However, I would like to stress the aspect that has been highlighted by my colleague Pirovano, namely that the theme of the postponement of municipal elections, to which also the regional elections, the supplementary elections of the Chamber and Senate and also the provincials and those for the metropolitan cities have been added, actually highlights a series of emergencies of our country that have to do especially with the minor municipalities, with the small municipalities. I remember, among other things, as we have seen, that almost never in some very small municipalities is it possible to reach half of those entitled to vote. Those in the field know these problems very well. Often, because of the registrations of Italian residents abroad (AIRE) you can not reach even half plus one of those who have the right to vote. So it happens that sometimes it is even difficult to elect a mayor and a city council. There are even cases in which lists of convenience are deposited, even by persons not resident in a certain municipality only and exclusively so that you have the possibility to elect a mayor and a municipal council, avoiding leaving that municipality without a guide, with a prefectial commissioner. The problems continue: it is clear that the whole theme of the municipal elections has to do with a reorganization of the regulatory framework in our country, which needs a "cutting" and an overall review. For example, the possibility of mayors being elected for more than two terms in smaller municipalities is quite obvious to me. Those who know the smaller and smaller realities are aware that sometimes it becomes difficult to find people who are willing to run for mayor, to lend their time, energy and even their earning capacities to the exclusive service of their fellow citizens and their countrymen. This is obvious and no one is better testimonial than those who have played the role of mayor and are forced to get angry, so that these problems can be tackled effectively and coherently with changing times. Times are changing and the legislator must take note of them. I would add a subject to which I referred in my introductory report and which has been much debated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs these days. In this regard, I would like to congratulate President Parrini, who has been able to play well the role of President of the Commission, creating the conditions for reaching a joint decision, by such a large majority, such as the one that today governs our country, in order to revise Law No. 3 of 2019, in the light of the practical application, of what happened in September last year and of the elements of distortion or difficult application in the field. In agreement with the government, we decided to deal with it at another location and at another time. I therefore hope, as rapporteur, that this will be done as soon as possible and I believe that the Government and all those who care about the issue of the regular presentation of the lists will also wish to see it become simple and not difficult to present the lists for the municipal elections. We must involve and convince citizens to take part in the public life of our country, also at the level of their own municipality and, for that to happen, we must not complicate, but simplify the regulatory framework for the presentation of lists. I think it is well known who has carried out this type of activity, in the course of his political life. Personally I have experienced this experience, having been elected six times in the City of my residence, and therefore I know well what it means to address the issue of local elections and what it means not only to go and ask for the vote of preference, but above all to involve citizens in the life of your city, to improve its conditions and quality of life. I am not going out of topic, ladies and gentlemen, because the subject of the movement of municipal elections, linked to a pandemic emergency such as the one that our country is experiencing in a pathological way, puts us in a position to make a reflection - and this is a positive fact - on a matter that deserves a deepening. It is the involvement of people in public life, in politics, at a stage in which we must regain our love for politics: we must convince, make all citizens understand that politics is a "high" function, which involves a commitment and a service: for those who perhaps already do a job and are engaged with the family, it is also a matter of spending part of their time to improve the quality of life of their fellow citizens. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that this seemingly simple measure also introduces an issue that deserves to be deepened, namely that of love for politics at a time when all citizens must regain confidence in it. [[Applause]] That trust that, unfortunately, has gone out of hand. This is our task, ladies and gentlemen: to restore confidence in citizens, especially at a time when they are experiencing enormous social and economic difficulties, especially in certain sectors of Italian society, and we have a duty not to forget them. For this reason, I took this opportunity to remind each of us of the task, the mission we must carry out: to give good administration to our country, to our state, already thinking of reopenings, the ability to produce confidence in a better future, at a time when the political forces in the field have all made a step back to look forward with confidence and unite the country for a different perspective. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u18	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. Colleagues, I suspend the sitting for fifteen minutes until the dossier of amendments arrives materially, so that everyone can have the tools to follow the proceedings and vote. The Commission has completed its work, we have decided to continue with the general discussion so that we can continue with it, but I am now suspending the sitting pending the agenda for the amendments. (The sitting was suspended at 11.58 a.m. and resumed at 12.19 p.m.) The session is resumed. I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what was established during the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Rules for the extraneousness of matter with respect to the contents of the decree-laws, amendments 1.5, 1.6, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 3.5, 3.0.12, 3.0.13, 3.0.14, 3.0.15, 3.0.16, 3.0.17, 3.0.18 and 3.0.19 cannot be proposed. Amendments 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4 can only be proposed to paragraph 2-a and amendments 3.0.5, 3.0.6 and 3.0.7 can only be proposed to paragraph 2. Members will see from the file that some have also been withdrawn and, therefore, the problem is overcome for many. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u19	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 1.5, 1.2 (text 2), identical to Amendments 1.3 (text 2) and 1.4 (text 2) and 1.0.1 (text 3). I also voted in favour of the G1100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u20	Mr President, the opinion on the Commission's amendments is in favour and the agenda was accepted because it had been approved in the Commission. Mr President, however, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u21	Amendment 1.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.2 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.5 and 1.6 are unacceptable. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1,100 will not be put to the vote. I would ask the President of the 5th Commission to give his opinion on Amendment 1.0.1 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u22	Mr President, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u23	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.0.1 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u24	Mr President, I welcome Amendments 2.4 and 2.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u25	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u26	I would ask the President of the 5th Commission to give his opinion on the amendments before us.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u27	Mr President, the opinion is of no objection to both.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u28	Amendments 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.4, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.5, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u29	Mr President, I welcome all the amendments tabled by the Commission. On the remaining amendments, I make a call for withdrawal, pointing out that an agenda was adopted in the Commission, as I was rightly reminded. I also welcome the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u30	Mr President, I welcome the G3.1 agenda and I am against the G3.100 agenda. I welcome the first commitment on the agenda of the G3.101, provided that the text is reworded as follows: It commits the Government to assess, in accordance with the balance of public finances, as well as with the timing necessary for the organisation and supply thereof, the opportunity to take initiatives aimed at replacing the current electoral ballot boxes with other semi-transparent material, in order to make it possible to verify the presence of ballot papers only within them, not even the identification of the same ballot boxes. I am opposed to the second and third commitments on the same agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u31	Amendments 3.1 to 3.4 have been withdrawn. Amendment 3.5 is not possible. Having been accepted by the Government, the G3.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Mantovani, do you insist on voting on day G3.100? (at 12.35 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u32	Mr President, as has already been agreed in the Commission, I am withdrawing the agenda for the G3.100, while as regards the next agenda for the G3.101, we accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u33	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u36	PAGENO, rapporteur. Excuse me, Mr President, just to remind the House that the agendas approved in the Commission, which are not included in the file which has been delivered, are to be considered approved here too.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u37	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u40	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the withdrawal of amendment 3.0.1 and the subsequent 3.0.8, because both of them have already been withdrawn from the Commission and turned into agendas which, as the rapporteur, Mr Pagano, has also mentioned, although not formally present in the dossier, have been shared.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u41	Amendments 3.0.2 to 3.0.4 have been withdrawn. I would ask the President of the 5th Commission to give his opinion on Amendment 3.0.100 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u42	Mr President, I have no objection to this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u45	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, on Amendment 3.0.11 there was an invitation to withdraw from the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u46	The Presidency takes note of this. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.100 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would ask the President of the 5th Commission to give his opinion on Amendment 3.0.5 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u47	Mr President, I have no objection to this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u48	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.5 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.0.8 and 3.0.9 have been withdrawn. We move on to Amendment 3.0.10, which is identical to Amendment 3.0.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u51	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in view of the inclusion of the agenda in the Commission, I shall withdraw Amendment 3.0.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u52	Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u55	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Amendment 3.0.11 is identical to those tabled by our Group, by Forza Italia and Senator De Petris. This amendment concerns the extension of paid permits for mayors of small municipalities, which is certainly a meritorious measure. However, since the measure was not covered and the measure was a financial invariance, in the Commission - President Pesco, who was responsible for coordination, could confirm this - all the groups agreed to withdraw the amendments, converging on a common agenda and on a future Commission amendment to the next support decree. It is therefore quite incomprehensible to the attitude of those who previously supported the agenda and committed themselves to signing the amendment to the Support Decree and now, on the other hand, disassociates themselves and calls for the vote on the amendment which - I repeat - is without financial cover. For these reasons, I am voting against the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u56	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.11, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.0.12 to 3.0.19 are unacceptable. I would ask the President of the 5th Commission to give his opinion on Amendment 3.0.20 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u57	Mr President, the opinion is in no way precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u58	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.20 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u61	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to announce the vote in favour of this amendment, which is the result of the reformulation of a previous amendment which provided for the possibility, for those universities which needed it, of extending the time limits for the re-election of the rector and of the whole college. The deadline of 31 October, indicated as an ideal extension, certainly does not solve the problem for those few universities that, unfortunately, are still in difficulty having suffered a quite strong backlash due to the pandemic. I am referring to the universities of Bergamo, in particular, and Venice, which would have needed at least an extension to 31 December, which we will perhaps ask the Government for with an agenda that we will present to the House of Deputies. Without wishing to enter into the autonomy of each individual university, however, we ask that universities in difficulty be granted the possibility of implementing all the procedures necessary to achieve a renewal of their positions and duties in order to ensure a proper start of the academic year.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u62	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.20 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u65	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the decree that we are going to convert today is part of all that series of measures that are useful to take note of the continuing existence of a serious situation from the point of view of the epidemiological emergency, which nevertheless imposes variations regarding the timing - in this case of the elections - at other different times of daily life. When we approve measures of this nature, the thought certainly goes to regaining a normality that still appears far away, but that must be the dominant feature of our action as parliamentarians, but above all of the daily action of the Government. We think, in fact, of the whole course of vaccination that we are starting and is indeed accelerating today, which is what really interests citizens, because it is the instrument that together with all the containment measures can really determine the turning point for the country and make sure that the measures that we are going to approve today are something to be quickly forgotten. We hope that in this case the postponement of the elections, which is certainly not the subject that the Italians have in mind, is one of the last measures that we put on the field to postpone something and to cope with the continuing of a still high emergency in terms of contagion and unfortunately of deaths, which are still very high and leave the country in a messed climate and pain. The measure under consideration - as we have already heard in the previous speeches and in the rapporteur's report - postpones the date of the ordinary electoral round that would have been held between April and June with regard to the local elections, the possible supplementary elections for the colleges of the Chamber and the Senate; the renewal of some sections of previous municipal elections invalidated; the municipal councils dissolved for mafia infiltration; the municipal councils dissolved for other reasons, for resignation of the mayors, for permanent impediment, for the loss of the majority in the municipal councils; in short, for all those events that led to the interruption of the life of some municipal councils and therefore the decline of the mayors. In practice, the electoral round moves from 15 September to 15 October, in order to allow the elections to be held in safe conditions, with a clear eye to the citizens who go to the polls, and to allow those who have to work in that context - prefectures and local authorities' staff - to be able to do so in a condition of greater security. In September-October we will certainly have a better picture from the point of view of keeping the country, because we will certainly have a very high level of vaccination and, therefore, immunization. The measure we are considering - in the explanation of vote it is right to make political considerations - has been improved with an eye to the life of the municipal administrations. I believe that this - as has already been pointed out in many speeches - was an important point, with all the amendments approved, aimed at reducing compliance and giving dignity - as has been said before - to situations in which individual lists for municipal elections are presented, for example, lowering to 40% the quorum of the participants in the vote as a fundamental element in order to be able to make the election valid. Improved elements have been introduced for the life of the mayors, in fact eliminating the sanctions for a late presentation of the end-of-term report, which aim to take note of an emergency situation that also falls on the lives of local administrations, which are really the closest lung to the lives of citizens. Today our duty is to make the municipal administrations - and in any case the institutions - closer to the citizens, to make their lives easier to allow them to have a relationship with the citizens more focused on solving problems, on the daily proximity to solve problems, rather than forcing them to follow bureaucratic issues that instead distance the perception of the municipality, of the local body, from the lives of people. It is useless to remain clinging to excessive rigidity on purely technical issues, such as the end-of-term report or other obligations, and to take time away from local administrations, which must instead be the first window for citizens' needs. Many administrators who are now senators or who have been well aware of all this, as Mrs Pirovano said very well before. I therefore believe that attention has been paid to trying to improve this measure, although not all the amendments have been adopted. I believe that there is something else to be taken into account in this respect. Today with the decree-law in question we are going to create the conditions to allow citizens to have a quiet vote, in greater security. However, all those initiatives that must enable the country to return to normal must be inspired by this measure. This is the objective that, as a political class, we must have in front of us: to dismiss as quickly as possible those who are buffer measures, who try to make normal what is no longer normal; at the same time, however, as a Parliament we must give the push and a strong incentive to the government's activity to put in place other important measures that must support the economic life of our country. In these days in the Senate is being examined of the decree-law supports, an important text that does not solve alone the problem of all that part of the population that makes free enterprise and that with the closures is forced, unfortunately, to see its own economic conditions in a phase of great decay. We must be ready to give answers, which must be characterized by economic support even more important than what already exists, and above all give an ordinary perspective of reopening this country. It is not necessary to create the party of those who want to open up against that of those who want to close, but it is necessary to trace a path characterized by programming, in order to see what the way out can be, without creating in this sense counterpositions that do not serve anyone, that can feed the talk shows, and do not give an answer to those who do business, to those who have to pay the bills and rents. We must find a clear path, because today citizens want to know (who does business, who has a shop, who has a restaurant) when they will be able to reopen the activities, knowing well that the conditions are dictated by the health and epidemiological framework. Numbers count - as President Draghi has said - but within this scheme those numbers must be adapted, or rather reasoned in a framework of economic and social needs of the country, the observance of which is no longer postponed. On the one hand, as a Parliament, we must therefore work quickly to dismiss - as we do today - measures which are purely technical in nature and - in this case - in order to enable the elections to be held between September and October in a condition of greater tranquility and health security; at the same time, when these measures are made redundant, we must give the boost to the revival of our country, to plan for progressive reopenings, rapid ones, clearly linked to scientific data. At the same time, however, it is necessary to ensure that those who have had their business closed down in recent months have economic support for their survival but also for the daily lives of our citizens. I conclude my speech by confirming the favorable vote of Italy Viva on the measure under discussion, of conversion of Decree-Law No 25 of 2021. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u68	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, for the Brothers of Italy, the vote is the salt of democracy and at this time, particularly difficult and suffering, is - in our opinion - also a reconstitutive element. For this reason, we do not consider the measure to be acceptable to us and we still do not understand why in all European realities we are going to vote while in Italy we need to move the date of the local elections. There is a legitimate suspicion that the case of the local elections should represent the fig leaf and the normal continuation of the story according to which in Italy the general elections cannot be held because of the pandemic and, therefore, today it would be in enormous difficulty to have the municipalities vote, because it is obvious that the virus does not distinguish. In this way, however, we are giving a further signal of the expulsion and delegitimization of the institutions in relation to the difficulties of the citizens. However, we hope - as the previous speaker said - that in the window between 15 September and 15 October the conditions will be different. However, we express enormous concern as well as the new Government is facing the pandemic emergency in Italy: slow vaccinations; lack of concrete answers to those categories that are paying more than others the difficulty of the crisis, which also became economic and social. We believe that local authorities, municipalities and provinces are fundamental institutions in the construction of our state system and I want to express to local administrators all the closeness and respect of our party towards them. In fact, we know - and we are aware of this for having been ourselves in the previous political season local administrators - what it means to be on the territories and be the first interface of the citizens, to be invested in all the issues that are immediately posed to those who are administrators of proximity. Not only do we not agree with the principle that the measure is subject to our scrutiny, but we also believe that it has been misspelled and ignored the issues that are immediately affecting local authorities. We have tried with a number of amendments to make our contribution to improving the measure, as we always do as patriotic opposition as we are. We regret collecting rejections and inproposities that - in our opinion - are very questionable. Of course, we are pleased that the Commission's work, which I would like to thank - and I am referring in particular to my group colleague, Senator Totaro - has been able in part to make adjustments which certainly improve the measure, so much so that we have voted on all the amendments proposed by the Commission. On Amendment 3.0.11 we asked for the vote, because we believe that the mayors represent the emblem of those administrators who have been charged with a further responsibility compared to what they already have, in ordinary times, as a health authority on the territory. It is unbelievable that, by returning to matters of mere accountantistic character, which represent the death of politics, you are not close to those administrators who every day come out to make sure to preserve their community and be close to the citizens who are most in difficulty. All the amendments that have been proposed, including by the large majority, confirm that this was a very poor measure. I would like to remind you that the municipalities had as an immediate problem the approval of forecast budgets and that problem - we had seen it, so much so that we had proposed an amendment in this regard - was partially resolved only by an amendment to the decree-law support, moving the deadline from 31 March to the end of April. This term certainly gives an extra rest, but I do not think it is enough in the light of what the municipalities are going through. On every occasion like this the rhetoric - which remains so - about everything that should be done and not done for local authorities returns to the debate. It is clear that the problem of local authorities, which needs to be addressed, is not the displacement of elections. On the contrary, I would add that we would need institutions in form, fully legitimated, especially at this time when administrators have to make difficult and highly responsible decisions. The real problems, however, are not addressed. There are municipalities that have huge financial difficulties and what do you do? We had proposed an amendment to suspend the loans, with regard to the capital share, with the Cassa depositi e loani, which is what is most incumbent on the municipalities. I hope, therefore, that the Government will also put its hand on this aspect, because there must be awareness that, especially in order to provide services to people, local authorities must have resources, that they are not even at ordinary times, let alone at an extraordinary stage such as the current one. Senator Astorre talked about the issue of the Provinces, to which I want to return. As far as the electoral aspect is concerned, we must realise that there are Provinces whose mandate expired last autumn. With the new rules it will reach sixty days after the votes for the municipal administrations. I would add that this is not a round of administrative like the others, since more than 1,000 Italian municipalities will vote and, above all, among them there are Rome, Milan, Naples, Turin and many more than 15.000 inhabitants. I would also add that there are municipalities in small realities - I am referring above all to those of the internal areas - which live a phenomenon of de-anthropization, which represents an emergency to be faced immediately, and not to give weight to political staff, but to recognize rights to citizens who pay taxes just like citizens who reside in large urban centres. It was a very serious mistake to abolish the Provinces. The Delrio reform was a total failure because that institutional level, the level of government in the vast area, remained ghost. It's there and it's like Totò's fog in Milan: there is, but you can't see it. Yet, it operates basic services such as school construction, thousands of kilometers of provincial roads that have not received maintenance either ordinary or extraordinary for more than six years now. What are we gonna do? Are we here to wait for the tragedies? I believe that this is the priority to be addressed and for these reasons I announce the contrary vote of Brothers of Italy to the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u71	VALENT (PD). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, as others have done, for the work that has been done in the Commission, as well as the Undersecretary, the Government and the President of our Commission. I would also like to point out that the climate that accompanied in fact the decree-law in question was really extremely positive, at a low rate of controversy - and I believe this is good for everyone - always remaining on a clear, open level of confrontation, to which everyone contributed: Government, majority and opposition. This fact, on such an important and central issue as the electoral one, is certainly good news, especially if we remember that last year it went very differently with the decree-law on the postponement of the elections in June 2020. We were very convinced at the time - we believe even more today - that, especially at a difficult stage like this, the electoral issue, regardless of whether we talk about referendums, regions, more or less important municipalities, requires dialogue between government and Parliament; and it also requires the ability of the majority - including the current majority - to involve the opposition, as well as the willingness of the minority to stand up to the facts and reality, net of the parliamentary battles that are always legitimate in democracy. I do not believe that in this emergency year on this matter a measure has ever been adopted against oppositions for partisan opportunities, as I have heard again this morning from someone the decree-law under consideration. On the contrary, I believe that the spirit with which we have discussed, and often improved in Parliament, the measures which came from the Government has always been inspired by fairness and clarity. Indeed, the facts have shown this. The decree-law that we are about to convert today fully fits into this framework: there has been a debate in the Commission, there has been a debate in the parliamentary seat and I believe that the comparison at the end has led to significant improvements compared to the initial text, listening above all to municipalities, provinces, territories and local authorities. In the meantime, even for the benefit of those who listen to us, I think it is necessary to remember and bear in mind that we are still, unfortunately, in the midst of a health emergency. We cannot pretend to be out of an extraordinary and exceptional period in the history of the country and the whole world; nor can we hide to come for a year and more that has aroused enormous concerns, rightly, among the citizens, which has caused mourning in numbers that remain dramatically high, although they are perhaps no longer those of the worst phase, which has caused limitations, hard sacrifices, I would say to say to a little exhausting for the lives of people. Precisely for this reason, despite the fact that the vaccination campaign is underway - and indeed, we can think that already in the next few days there will be a significant acceleration in the administration of vaccines - we cannot at this time lower our attention to the risks that - for example - an electoral round would carry out. We could not do that last year, when the electoral round - then including a referendum - was postponed to September, with much controversy, even in Parliament. And we have seen that postponement has brought no threat to the proper functioning of democracy and to the expression of the will of the people. We cannot ignore a principle of caution even this year, precisely because we come from the experience of the 2020 elections which, although held in different ways, have guaranteed the right of all political forces and all candidates, as well as those of the electoral citizens. For this reason, by adopting a fair attitude of prudence, this decree-law adds an important piece to the construction of a new normality that is inspiring all the measures and initiatives that are taking place in the past weeks and months. The decree-law that we are converting today must therefore be seen in such a way, and for this reason we of the Democratic Party consider it absolutely important and noteworthy, also because in autumn they will have to go to the vote a little less than 1,300 municipalities, including many of the major capitals, and an important Region of the Mezzogiorno like Calabria, in addition to the vote for the supplementarys. The one under consideration today is a decree-law that seeks to arm, in the most correct way possible, the need to ensure the democratic conduct of electoral consultations that were planned for the spring and to do so not only in compliance with health safety rules, but also in a framework of the spread of risks that can be imagined - we hope - has improved between September and October. That is why the decision to vote again on two days, especially to protect the elderly, of course. That is why the decision to do so in a time window between 15 September and 15 October should enable all political forces to submit lists within a reasonable time frame and to campaign properly. This is nothing more than that line of prudence, principle and precaution that this Government is rightly following, moreover, in absolute continuity with the previous government's approach, which has given good results of effectiveness already in the previous electoral round of September 2020. Moreover, with a broad consensus from all political forces in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, elections were also postponed for the renewal of the bodies of the metropolitan cities, for the Presidents of the Province and for the provincial councils that expire in the first nine months of 2021, rather than only in the first half of 2021, as was already foreseen. In this way the postponement is also properly extended to those Provinces whose organs expire in July. Elections are not only the day when citizens are called to express themselves with the ballot, but they are also a complex and complex path. In this complex path there is a phase that obviously presents risks related to the gatherings or in any case to possible occasions of contact with epidemic vectors, that is that of the collection of the signatures. It is true that each regional law has its own legislation and that national law presents, depending on the size of the municipalities, a different number of signatures; but today it is only right to reduce the required signatures by two thirds. In essence, as was already the case in 2020, only one third of the signatures currently planned will be enough to be able to submit the lists. As a Democratic Party we have shared the need for municipalities up to 15,000 inhabitants to address the issue of widespread depopulation, which we all know well, and that of the vote of those entitled to AIRE. In our opinion, it is right to address these points, especially at this stage, when travel between larger or smaller distances is made very difficult. The solution is known: for the whole 2021, in the case of a single list, all the members of the list can be elected if the number of voters will be 40% of the members of the list. This number will be determined by not taking into account the AIRE voters who do not exercise the right to vote and if the list, of course, will get at least 50% of the votes. In the meantime, we have spoken for 2021, partly because the matter of the measure in question allowed only this. At the end of the emergency phase, there will be time and opportunity to review some of the rules that need to be updated and the relevant measure is currently under discussion in our Commission. We then addressed - as was necessary - the issue of all administrative burdens for the submission of lists, entrusting them for the time being to a joint agenda. I also believe that it is important to remember the other agenda shared and signed by all political forces for the extension of permissions to mayors, so the Government has undertaken to include a specific rule in the next decree-law, which I believe should really serve to resolve some difficulties or interpretative doubts also emerged in these months. I remember that we are talking about mayors who on many occasions are making truly extraordinary efforts - and to them go our support and our closeness, even personal ones - in small communities, to which the State has the duty to make concretely feel its closeness and support, always. Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure, because it is fair and balanced and adds a fundamental brick for the construction of that normal, although still dramatically partial, necessary for an important appointment for many, many communities in our territory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u74	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with conviction we are here today voting to convert Decree-Law No 25 of 5 March 2021 into law for the postponement of elections for 2021, providing for an electoral window between 15 September and 15 October. Allow me, however, first of all to express my solidarity and that of the Senators and Senators of the Mixed Group to the Minister of Health Roberto Speranza and to the President of the Emilia-Romagna Region Stefano Bonaccini [[Applause]] , both victims of threats and intimidation, a few days apart, in different ways. It is a climate of dangerous tension: just think of the Molotov bomb at the Higher Institute of Health. Minister Hope, President Bonaccini, we are with you. Here is the measure that we are about to fire at first reading, which follows a similar initiative taken last year and which I believe is necessary, because of the permanence of the epidemiological picture from Covid-19 overall and widely serious throughout the national territory, as well as the evolution of variants of the virus that in some cases, like the English variant, have a character of even greater contagiousness. The decree-law provides - as we have already heard - for consultations to take place in two days. I have to say that the rapporteur, Mr Pagano, has already explained the content of the measure extensively in this House, and I can tell you that we have worked well as a majority in the first Commission. Colleagues and colleagues - as you know - should have voted in May for the regionals in Calabria, for the municipal councils of important and populous cities such as Rome, Naples, Milan, Turin, Bologna (only to name a few). We would all have liked to have voted according to the natural deadline, but it was not possible because we are still in the midst of a health emergency. No one in this House can question the evidence: we have difficulties in the vaccination plan; intensive therapies and hospital departments are occupied beyond the critical threshold; we still do not know if we have reached the peak of infection. Of course, there are timid signs that make us hope, but the country is still divided between red and orange zones. We have 550,000 people currently infected and every day we have, unfortunately, hundreds of victims (296 the day before yesterday, 421 yesterday). We are almost 112,000 people dead in just over a year. That is why it seems so unreal to us the debate these days, fueled by statements by political leaders who oppose the government's measures to contain the pandemic, while being part of the same majority that supports the Dragons Government. There are regions that push to reopen and the leader of the League who says no to the ideology of the red. But seriously, Senator Salvini, are you convinced that there are supporters of the ideology of the red zone? What's the point? Now is not the time to divide between rigorists and open tourists. President Draghi, Minister Hope, the entire Government and therefore also the Ministers of the League say one simple and obvious thing: if the contagions drop, we will reduce the constraints. Overexposing a minister is wrong; personalizing the confrontation is doubly wrong; riding anger is wrong; leaving only those in the trenches is wrong. It cannot be the convenience to have any reopenings decided: we will reopen when science tells us and when the medical data will tell us. We know that the country is impoverishing itself and we are all well aware that thousands and thousands of people are suffering from the economic crisis: almost a million jobs lost - especially for women - because of the economic consequences of the pandemic and restrictions to contain infections, according to the new data released yesterday by Istat; youth unemployment rates at 31.6 percent, despite the blocking of redundancies. We should have done more, of course. More resources will be needed to tackle red areas and orange areas. We still have to tighten the belt in the next few weeks. We'll only see the light again when we've defeated the pandemic. And when we defeat it, we'll have to put the work back at the center (the one of the new development model), recovery plan, ecological and digital transition. The measure in question consists of five articles divided into seven paragraphs. Article 1 provides for the postponement for 2021 of the electoral rounds, moving them between 15 September and 15 October 2021. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a fruitful improvement of the measure has been carried out. I would just like to point out one element on which it has not been possible to intervene: this is the subject of the mayors' work permits, which involves in particular the mayors of small municipalities. In fact, in smaller municipalities, the majority of mayors are employees who have now faced an unprecedented emergency situation. For the same reasons as for which it was envisaged that up to 24 hours of additional permits would be available in respect of the forty-eight hours provided for in the single text on local authorities, it would be appropriate to restore the possibility of taking advantage of the seventy-two hours of leave until the end of the state of emergency, as from extensions or intervening. We allow ourselves, therefore, to point out to the Government this element to be considered in the next steps. President, Government, colleagues and colleagues, I am about to conclude the speech. There's one last point I'd like to touch. I turn to the government once again. We need to break down the wall of the World Trade Organisation. We must be at the forefront of the mobilization to demand the universality of patents on vaccines and the suspension of intellectual property in order to produce everywhere and in the number of doses required. I would like to mention Professor Alberto Mantovani, scientific director of the Humanitas Institute in Milan: The more the virus replicates and the more it generates variants. We need to stop the virus race. We need to stop him from circling around here and elsewhere. The virus circulates in rich countries and poor countries, which means that without vaccines in poor countries we will be flooded with variants. Health is a common good; health is a right, not a privilege. Mr President, for these reasons and for the urgency and usefulness of this decree, I am voting in favour of the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u77	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will say something about this decree-law because it meets almost the unanimity of this House and, therefore, I consider it absolutely unnecessary to use time to repeat things already said and misled. I am interested in putting the emphasis here on an issue first raised in this debate by Senator Astore and then taken up by my colleague Mr Pirovano. The time has come - this is the right time - to rethink that famous Delrio reform, which we have always contested because we believe that democracy is not priced, because we believe that representation should not be sacrificed on the altar of economic cuts, because we believe that the citizen needs to have a representative of proximity today more than yesterday, since there has been an irrational and unreasonable cut of parliamentarians that makes municipal councillors, mayors and provincial councillors become the first interlocutors of citizens. Parliament moves away from the citizens and then we give the intermediate institutions strength and dignity. Let us therefore welcome the conviction of the friends of the Democratic Party who have better understood - melius re per pensa - that that reform could perhaps have made sense in the perspective of constitutional reform. The citizens, however, have rejected that constitutional reform and we have not the right, but the duty to put things right. For our part there is the greatest willingness to talk about it right away and to put things right. Another issue, which has also been dealt with and which fully agrees with us, is to provide for the third term of office for municipalities below 15,000 inhabitants. You don't have to be professional politicians to understand how difficult it is today to find people willing to sacrifice time, family and work in the interests of the territory. [[Applause]] Therefore, when this is possible and when this person is found, why do we have to delete experiences, intelligences and availability, since, however, they are not direct calls, but there is always a screening by citizens and voters? So let us also discuss the third term of office for municipalities below the 15,000 inhabitants, without reservation and without prejudice. I would like to say something about the intervention made by Mr Ruotolo on the reopenings and positions which, even within this Government, are expressed in full freedom and with responsibility. Who speaks to you is certainly not a negator: and I would like to see who can deny such a virulent pandemic, which has produced more than 110,000 victims! It is clear that the Scientific Technical Committee, which is made up of scientists, will give the green record when the pandemic is completely eradicated. Politics has another responsibility. Politics has a responsibility to decide, to take account of scientists and their assessments, but to decide. It is not possible that in our country, in order to avoid dying of pandemics, conditions must be created to starve. [[Applause]] I believe that after a year, after 110,000 deaths, there is the possibility of finding protocols that can allow, rationally and intelligently, to restart the productive activities. Why can't you have dinner in restaurants and instead you can have dinner in hotels? Why this discrimination? The problems of assembly are solved by putting hand to the movida. They are the young - and if you understand the reason - the most recalcitrant to respect the rules. I believe that this is the time when the Government, with all due respect for the Scientific Technical Committee and for scientists (who, moreover, do not always say the same things), must pay attention to the productive activities done in full compliance with the protocols. We cannot wait until we completely eradicate the pandemic to reopen, because after the pandemic, we will have a very serious economic crisis, which we will probably not be able to cope with. What we call refreshments, supports and supplements are, in fact, drops in the sea, which do nothing but mortify those who, for a year, have closed their doors. [[Applause]] Therefore, we don't do rearguard battles, but let's talk about it freely, let's talk about it without preconceptions. No one wants to foment the crowds; indeed, violence must always be contested, denied and isolated. We understand, however, what situations these people are experiencing, which sees compromise, not only the present, but probably also the future. We will therefore vote on this decree-law, which was born for the same reasons as this Government. The current government was born of the inopportunity to vote at a time when, probably, the vote could have created an element of worsening of the pandemic. Rightly, as a consequence, the local elections have also been postponed, at a time when we hope that, starting with the proper vaccination campaign, with greater awareness on the part of citizens and strict health protocols, which can be achieved, the constitutional right to exercise its vote, even in administrations and intermediate bodies, can also be exercised. Some changes were accepted in the Commission. We have tried to make a contribution, since we were at a delicate time, to reflect on some distortions of certain regulations. I refer above all to Article 1, paragraph 14, of Law No. 3 of 2019, which gives the sense of the irrationality (many times) of the legislative rules. A sanction is imposed on the party that has not, in the fifteen days before the vote, published on its website the criminal certificate of candidates. But the lists are presented thirty days before and it is irrational to foresee a sanction when the deadline for the presentation of the lists has evaporated: and it is irrational especially when the party documentaryly demonstrates that it has requested the criminal certificate from the citizen. We have been told by the Undersecretary that this was not the place to address the issue and that perhaps the legislation was too young to be subjected to a traumatic revisiting; but I must acknowledge the President, the Government and all the members of the Commission that they have made a commitment, which is not to make the revolution of this legislation, but to open a moment of reflection, in order to verify what has worked and what has not. I would also like to say to the friends of the 5 Stars, who have made this rule a battlehorse, that no one wants to take the parties away from the responsibility for transparency in the nominations and the appointment of their representatives; but let us make a rational, effective regulation and that it works, instead of shooting in the pile, because we do not have to be professional politicians to understand what and how many difficulties are there when the lists are to be presented, with the short times, the unexpected, the inconveniences, the replacements, the resignations and the new candidatures. It is impossible to take all this into account in a reasonable and rational way. There has also been a lack of courage regarding the renewals of university academic senates. The deadline was set in October; there was no courage to extend the deadline until December. There are universities within cities that have been severely affected by the pandemic and that therefore more than others have suffered the difficulties and the emergency. But, as some people in the Commission said today, rather than nothing is better. We therefore announce our vote in favour, with the awareness that this is only the first step in trying to remedy so many twists and regulations that they have demonstrated... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u80	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are going to convert today touches on an extremely sensitive issue: the postponement of the elections, that is, of what is at the basis of every democratic system. The Government intervenes by decree to postpone not only the renewals of local administrations, but also of all vacant seats in Parliament. The executive power therefore effectively interferes with the legislative power, and this is certainly the most constitutionally relevant element of Decree-Law No. 25. The passage of parliamentary ratification is therefore not a simple act due, but it is the time and place where it is essential to make a careful assessment of the extent of the positive and negative elements of the overall picture we are in. The state of the pandemic has not prevented other nations from proceeding differently. Important elections have been held over the past few weeks and others will be held in the spring, so in the balance between the right to health and the right to democracy the choice has prevailed not to compress the latter. Our country, instead, that - I remember - was the first to clash with the effects of the Covid, seems destined to be among the last to get out, because of a poorly set vaccination plan and started slowly and in guilty delay, in which priority has been given to the choreographies of the primrose and not to the supply of vaccines and the availability of health personnel. Fortunately, with the removal of Commissioner Arcuri and the arrival of General Son, the trend has changed and we proceed to recover the lost time trusting to reach the goal during the summer. It becomes therefore conceivable to postpone the planned elections, not by a year, but by fifteen weeks, in order to allow the country to face the electoral campaign with greater serenity and without too many constraints and limitations. These are the premises that lead our Group to declare its vote in favour and to accept this shift in the terms for the exercise of a fundamental right such as that of voting. It would be difficult to implement a further postponement, because important cities such as Rome, Milan, Turin and Naples need a renewal and a revival of administrative life and the therapeutic fervour in keeping alive the Giunte Raggi, Sala, Appandino and De Magistris would be the further punishment for millions of our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, we will also have to drag the ridiculous and tiresome soap opera with which the left believes to hold the country in its breath. We will have to wait until autumn to know who will be their candidate parachuted in the boarding school of Siena in the House: Will it be Count? Will it be Letta? An infinite manfriend, who mocks the Sienese voters, who, on the contrary, deserve respect and to be represented by a Member who knows the territory and is linked to it. [[Applause]] However, the parliamentary passage of this decree was an opportunity to include some necessary corrections for municipal elections in small municipalities. I say this with satisfaction, because the League has always been at the side of these realities and is attentive, like no one else, to their needs and needs, also thanks to the fact that many senators of the League Group are first and foremost local administrators. Also thanks to the constant confrontation and dialogue with the National Association of Small Municipalities of Italy and its tireless president, Franca Biglio, as well as with the head of the Department of Small Municipalities ANCI, Massimo Castelli, we managed to propose solutions shared by everyone to problems present for some time. The small municipalities are not a niche: they are 5,500 out of 7,900; 70 percent of the mayors are mayor of a small Municipality and only in the Lombardy Region and in Piedmont there are more than 2,000. In small municipalities, one compatriot lives every six and, with more than 10 million inhabitants, it is in fact the largest region in Italy: a population as large as that of Greece, Sweden or Portugal. It is administered by the small municipalities 54 percent of the national territory and almost all of our natural beauties are in the hands of mayors who have less and less tools and are less and less motivated to continue their commitment which, in fact, is solely of social volunteering. Many small municipalities are now at risk of being without directors because of the difficulty, accentuated by the Covid-19, of reaching the quorum of validity required when to appear in the elections is a single list. In fact, it is expected that in any case 50% of the citizens registered on the electoral roll will be present at the vote: the problem, however, is that many of these are resident abroad for a very long time - enrolled in the Anagraphe of Italians residing abroad (AIRE) - and of a part there is no longer even certainty of the existence in life. While for national elections and referendums it is planned to vote by correspondence on independent circuits, for the administrative the only way to vote is in the presence, with a trip perhaps intercontinental: in any case, the elector helps to determine the quorum. I bring you to know one of the infinite examples that I could make, that of a Municipality of the Vicenza Prealps, Posina. In the elections last September 1,149 voters were registered for municipal elections and 459 for the national referendum. The difference of 700 voters, more than half, is precisely AIRE voters. Well, there were 357 of them at the vote, who withdrew both ballots. There was 78 percent turnout for the referendum, but 31 for the municipalities. If no more lists had been submitted, those elections would have been cancelled and the City would have been commissary. In cases like these it is mathematically impossible to reach the quorum with only the voters actually resident. We have therefore proposed lowering the threshold to 40% and, above all, excluding AIRE voters from the calculation of the quorum of validity. With the vote in favour of our amendment just now we have given breath and future to so many small communities. The rule will have extraordinary effect for the 2021 elections, but we trust to put it in place shortly with a special bill already in the advanced phase of examination. With the same bill there is the will to put an end to the phenomenon of ghost lists, that is those lists of candidates widely alien to the community and that, only to draw personal benefits in the form of paid permits and periods of expectation, also put in serious economic difficulties the municipalities with less than 1,000 inhabitants, taking advantage of the possibility of not having to collect subscriptions of voters at the time of the deposit of the lists. Another rule of great necessity is to restore to the 2020 level the hours of leave paid to mayors, who are often employed in other work activities being unthinkable, from an economic point of view, to play the role of full-time mayor in many small municipalities. To this end, an agenda has been approved in the Commission and there is a commitment by all Groups to sign a resolution amendment to the Support Decree. On the other hand, the dual problem of the third consecutive term of office of the mayors remains unresolved. This possibility is now granted only to micro-municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants and is forbidden to all others, while we ask that it be extended to all municipalities up to 15,000 inhabitants. We also call for the rule that allows the mayors of micro-municipalities a maximum of three total mandates to be corrected. This normative anomaly leads in fact to a strong inequality, as the mayor of a metropolis can be elected for four mandates, alternated by a pause after two in office, while the mayor of a Municipality of 200 people is forever ineligible after a total of three shifts. The real risk is not to find more capable and helpful people who choose to put themselves at the service of the community, thus dispersing the administrative experience gained. This is all the more true in a historical phase such as that of the emergency Covid, which has put the mayors to the test, who have often found themselves to be the only point of reference of their community. For far too long the Commissions have been given the bill that we have presented and that we believe is indispensable to be quickly scheduled for this reform to become law before the summer. In thanking those who have worked for the successful outcome of the examination in the Commission (President Parrini, the rapporteur Pagano and the undersecretary Scalfarotto, demonstrating the possibility of effective collaboration on non-divisive issues), the League announces that it will vote responsibly in favour of the measure under consideration, which we deliver improved and expanded to the other branch of Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u83	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, I am pleased that for once we can speak in this House about electoral matters. Since the birth of the Italian Republic, this theme has been one of those that have remained the same as themselves over time. In fact, the elections are held in exactly the same way as they were in 1948 and - indeed - as they were at the beginning of the century and in the nineteenth century. In the same way, all the procedures for submitting lists have remained unchanged and - let me say - extremely and unnecessarily cumbersome. If, on the one hand, the elections are the fundamental pillar of our democracy, on the other hand, they are the institution that has not yet been able to grasp the positive elements offered by digitalization in order to streamline, burn down and make its processes safer. I know all these issues well because for years I have been in charge of organizing the list representatives for the 5 Star Movimento in the Province of Modena, also supporting the work in the other Provinces of Emilia-Romagna. Those who, like me, do this activity (which I might call support for democracy) know very well how often bureaucracy itself acts as a barrier to transparency. The measure we are debating today only marginally affects this matter, moving forward in time the administrative electoral round planned for this spring. This is clearly necessary, given that the vaccination campaign is in full swing and is still struggling with the third wave of the pandemic. Among other things, cities such as Rome, Bologna, Milan, Naples and Turin will vote, just to mention the most populous. That is why it is important to ensure an election campaign that would have been impossible to secure next month. However, I think it is necessary to go beyond the simple postponement of the elections and reason on some structural changes that can be useful to Italy at any time in history and not only in a pandemic phase like this. I would like to mention one of my amendments, approved in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which allows for the first time to send the nominations of list representatives by certified e-mail and avoid the authentication of the delegate's signature if the act has been signed electronically by the delegate himself. Over the last year, we have finally cleared the need to send documents, access to subsidies and administrative procedures through digital platforms. The example of the exponential growth of Spid activations by Italians is the most tangible evidence of this. Faced with this change of paradigm, how is it possible that a very simple act such as the presentation of the names of the list representatives must still take place in paper form, perhaps moving people tens of kilometers to do so? The Spid system is used by all national, regional and municipal public administrations. I think it is time that computerized systems were introduced to carry out the presentation of documents for electoral purposes. My amendment is now limited only to this autumn electoral round and gives the opportunity, by Wednesday before the elections, to send the nominations of the list representatives with a JEP. In the future, I hope that we can extend the time span by arriving until Friday before the vote and that the use of JEP for this type of communication will be made structural. In this sense, I have deposited a bill, Act No. 2129, assigned to the 1st Commission, which goes in this direction, and I hope that the positive views of all political forces will converge. I thank President Parrini for his subscription and support. I must point out that all the discussions around the elections have recently focused in my humble opinion on wrong or misleading objectives. We are witnessing, for example, a dialectic diatribe about the need to extend the vote to the 16-year-olds, an important issue and to be deepened definitely, but I believe that working on procedures, on the bureaucracy linked to the elections is the necessary action to be taken to keep up with the times. Of course, it is less news to talk about procedures for reforming the electoral process than anything else, but the effort must be made not to get distracted in order to improve the process definitively. Another intervention that I promise to continue in this parliamentary term is the proposal to close the polling stations in advance of the 11 p.m. timetable. Closed at 10:00 p.m. seems more correct. Those who have been part of the section electoral office are aware of the almost inoperosity of the same after 10 p.m. If we look at the example of most of our European partners, the seats are closed much earlier. This would benefit voting operations, peer reviewers and the speed at which the results would be achieved. Let me add that it would also be a necessary courtesy of communication and transparency towards the voter to bring out the results already consolidated by midnight. Finally, but no less important, there would be savings for the state's coffers, because at most the day after the closure of the seats would close all the scrutins. Colleagues, in this historical legislature we have completed epochal reforms such as the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, which help to make the Italian political apparatus more streamlined. It is time to take a step forward also on the elections, which must finally become 2.0. Technology is our ally and must not be seen with mistrust. This is not just a step for ourselves, but for our children who look with dismay at an old electoral process, questioning the usefulness of this waste of paper and its bureaucratic burdens that engulf their intelligences. Allow me, in conclusion, to refer to the singular case of the elections of the Consortium of Reclamation of Piacenza that the next 18 and 19 April risk having to take place in presence. That is why I again ask the President of my Bonaccini Region and the Councillor Mammi to act immediately in order to postpone these elections by avoiding the convening of almost 150,000 people. I am beginning to conclude by hoping that in future, when you can return to the vote safely, those entitled to vote will exercise the right-duty, because as David Foster Wallace said you have every right to stay at home if you want, but don't make fun of yourself thinking not to vote. In fact, not voting is impossible, you can vote by voting or voting by staying at home and tacit doubling the value of the vote of an irreducible. I conclude with the hope that in the short term we will be able to digitalise and cut the unnecessary bureaucracy also with regard to the cumbersome electoral procedure and announce the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars to the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u84	I ask Senator Garnero Santanché to turn to the Presidency, it's okay that today is her birthday and we wish her well, but look at us. [[Applause]] We now come to the examination of the coordination proposal C1, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u85	Mr President, I would like to say that there are some changes in drafting, in the proposals for coordination. In Article 2, paragraph 1-a, introduced by amendment 2.4, at the first period, it is proposed to replace the words: "for the upcoming electoral competitions" with the following: "for the election of the mayor and the municipal council in the municipalities up to 15,000 inhabitants"; "for the second period replace the words: "if this percentage is not reached" with the following: "if these percentages are not reached." In paragraph 1-a, introduced amendment 2.5, it is proposed to replace the words: "for the upcoming electoral competitions" with the following: "for the election of the mayor and municipal council in municipalities up to 15,000 inhabitants." In Article 3-a, introduced by amendment 3.0.5 (text2), it is proposed to replace the heading by the following: Derogate to end-of-term reporting provisions. In article 3-a, introduced by amendment 3.0.20 (text 4), it is proposed to replace, in paragraph 1, the words: "deliberated by the Council of Ministers on 31 January 2020" with the following: "prorogated by the Council of Ministers by resolution of 16 January 2001, published in the Official Journal No 15 of 20 January 2021". In paragraph 2 it is proposed to replace the words: "on the date of entry into force of this law" with the following: "on the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree." Finally, as the measure has been amended by the introduction of amendments to the Commission and voted on already in the Chamber, to the title of the decree-law, after the words: 'for the postponement of electoral consultations', it is proposed to include the following: ', and for the simplification of electoral procedures for the continuity of the management of universities and institutions of high artistic, musical and coreautic education'.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u86	Mr President, it seems unusual to me to list such a long list. , rapporteur. I'm done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The problem is that we are not able to understand whether these are merely formal corrections or substantive corrections. They must therefore be examined, even for a short period of time, because they have an unusual length. In so many years I have never seen such a complex correction for formal reasons. If the rapporteur insists that this is not a substantial correction, I need the Offices to confirm it. PAGENO, rapporteur. I am here to represent the Commission, and I think that we should simply give it up for acquisitions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't understand her. We need a few minutes, so the Offices take responsibility for confirming that these are formal corrections. I can't tell from his long list. A unanimous acceleration is not enough. I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 13.53 p.m. and resumed at 13.56 p.m.) As there are no fundamental objections, we shall proceed to the vote. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. Senator Gasparri and Senator Matrisciano report that they voted. We shall now proceed to the final vote. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law of 5 March 2021, No 25, laying down urgent provisions for the postponement of electoral consultations for the year 2021" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.58 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u87	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00317, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on cashback. I call Senator Rauti to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u88	Mr President, at last, in a deserted Chamber, the motion, tabled on 26 January, signed and strongly desired by my colleagues in Lega e Forza Italia, arrives, for a total of over one fifth of the members present in the Senate, which should have given you the right to abbreviated procedure, i.e. the debate within thirty days. This did not happen and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate were not respected. Above all, I remember at least four conferences of group leaders where Brothers of Italy asked for the timing of the motion, but the request was promptly rejected. That is why I say that today he finally arrives in the Chamber. Let us come to the substance, because I have a few minutes and I hope to convince even the rebellious - I must say surprisingly backward - that this motion is not only a feasible proposal, of common sense, useful and necessary, but I would add that it is awaited by those who are out of here. I contextualize it quickly. The 2020 Budget Act provided for the promotion of the use of electronic payment instruments, the Italian Cashless Plan, or a cash refund for the expenses incurred with such instruments. Within the plan, the most popular measure is that of cashback, i.e. the 10% refund on transactions with electronic money with a ceiling of EUR 150. For cashback, the Government has allocated about 5 billion for the 2021 and 2022 annuals to be provided in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, and here is one of the points. Meanwhile, the measure has not achieved the desired effects, but above all the cashback does not meet the stated purpose, that is to represent an instrument to fight tax evasion: it is like threatening with a water gun. Given that we do not share the position of those who wanted to set a cash ceiling, I would like to point out that even the European Central Bank has highlighted the importance of the role of cash for certain social groups; that is, cashback, according to the ECB, would not take due account of the fact that the possibility of paying in cash remains particularly important for certain social groups, which for various - legitimate - reasons prefer to use cash rather than other payment instruments. That's what the ECB says. We don't say that. I come to the government's commitments. The motion commits the Government to suspend the cashback plan and to allocate the 5 billion euros allocated to support the categories in crisis. That is the point and it is also very simple. I want to make it clear that today this House, with its vote - in favour, against or abstention - assumes responsibilities. We assume responsibility if we support concretely the categories and the activities closed for Covid-19, adding 5 billion to those insufficient and mortifying 11 billion of the risors (cracks, compared to the damages); we assume responsibility for not having given a roadmap for the reopening; we assume responsibility for the failure of some enterprises, still forced to pay fixed costs such as rents and bills. In short, we assume a very precise and important responsibility. In conclusion, since unfortunately the time at my disposal is over, I use a historical metaphor, now abused, because it is always there that you arrive, for centuries and until the demonstrations that were there yesterday afternoon: the people are hungry, but they no longer have bread. Those who vote against the motion today assume the responsibility of answering: do not complain, you have the raffle, the lottery of receipts and the shameful waste of cashback (which someone has decided not to give to those who deserve it, to those who suffer, to those who are about to close, to those who make sacrifices and to those who no longer have bread). While condemning the violence of some demonstrations, one cannot but share the exasperation and not feel solidarity with those who have been closed by decree, he has not been compensated and does not know what to put on the table for the children every day. Put a hand on your conscience when you vote today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u89	I inform you that the agenda has been presented G1, by Senators Dell'Olio, Bagnai, Errani, Manca, Conzatti, Damiani, Steger and others, already printed and distributed, which is intended to be illustrated. Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a subtle mention of the historical period in which the Government has chosen to implement an unnecessary and ideological measure (ideological because of the fact that of course the cash user is always and in any case a dirty evador) such as cashback and to put EUR 5 billion on top of it. In the year just passed we saw 300,000 companies die in Italy because of the management of the pandemic, which was always and only of closures. The pandemic was thus managed by the Giallorossi Government, which was the Government of the worst, but the management was replicated, equal, even, by the so-called Government of the best. I remember - because it seems to us that this Government is a little 'distracted - that in 2020 the Italian production system had a decrease in turnover of 423 billion, a huge loss, however huge, not due to market dynamics or inability, but to an imposition of the Government, which forced many Italians not to work. The government wanted to "remediate" - the term, for those who did not understand it, is of course ironic and I believe that there has never been more tragic irony than this - with a total of grants of EUR 11 billion. I would like these two figures, 423 billion and 11 billion, to be sculpted well into everyone's head (especially the proportions). Gentlemen and members of the government, before raising our eyebrows from our privileged minds because yesterday some restaurateurs and some traders raised their heads and tones - for the first time, moreover, I would say - I tell you that, if you do not change step, yesterday's will not be the last of the protests in the square. In fact, it naturally stops solidarity with the forces of order and condemnation of cases - I would like to stress - hyperminoritarians of violence, I am very surprised that these protests arrive only now, after a year of economic coma of our productive system, but also social. This shows - and all Italians have shown this - that these people are certainly much more responsible than those who are ruling them. Yesterday's people - we must remember - are not protesters and do not belong to social centers, but they think that they will never raise their shutter again, they do not know what to feed their children tomorrow and have seen the sweat, tears and dreams of a whole life pulverize in a year. And you - because Brothers of Italy, it is well to emphasize, has no responsibility in this "madness" of yours, and I would not know how to use a different noun - instead of devoting every penny available to refunds for these people, grant refreshments, as a sovereign grants to subjects. Destiny 5 billion to cashback: for us you are Martians. Don't you feel moral shame inside you? Don't you understand your shortsightedness about the economic vision of our nation? Do you really think that that part of Italy (VAT matches, traders and restaurateurs) that has only the big flaw of not being your electorate, the one of PD reference, can accept an injustice - or, better, a mockery - such? I hope that, if this House still retains a dignity, it will immediately wipe out this fashionable and ideological madness of cashback and put 5 billion to soothe - of course, partially - the wounds of that Italy that works (or, perhaps, it would be more fair to say that it worked). [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u91	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u92	Mr President, we know that the aim of the cashback measure is to increase the digitalisation of transactions in our country and reduce tax evasion. We can already measure some effects related to the first objective, because we know how many transactions are made (about 7.2 million) and we also know that almost 15 million electronic payment instruments are activated to benefit from this measure. At least in part, we can say that we already have positive results on one of the two objectives. Of course, they need more time to be properly measured and weighted, even more so when it comes to measuring the effects of reducing tax evasion. It is not conceivable that in just three months it can be determined whether this measure has had a positive effect on the emergence of black. It is useless that we hide it: we know that in many cases payments are made in a way that does not allow traceability and, therefore, with unorthodox behavior. I believe that, precisely for the short period of time that separates us from the introduction of this measure and the start of its operation, first in an experimental and today more orderly and concrete way, we need to take some time to better meditate on the effects linked to the purposes and principles that this measure has given itself. However, there are measures that we can already say are necessary today, because the amount of resources we are committing to this measure and the way in which it is developing makes us say that corrective measures can already be adopted today, which obviously result in savings. Corrections may be in relation to the number of six-monthly transactions, the ceiling on the value of the transactions themselves and the possibility that traders and traders may at least partially recover the higher costs arising from electronic transaction fees. Improvements, which result in savings, are certainly possible and feasible. There is also the theme that concerns - alas - the operations that are carried out in this country: governments change and those who arrive after spends time disassembling the measures made by the government and the previous majorities. One of the great issues of our country is legal certainty and therefore there is also the need and the need to ensure that the measures, once they enter into force, are not disassembled in four and four eight within a few months. Legal certainty is one of the cornerstones of investment. The traders and traders who have had to adapt their electronic systems in order to accommodate these payment methods in support of cashback and the other measure, that of the lottery of receipts, have made investments and, if they are told that we have joked and that those investments go to decline, I believe that it is not even respectful of the commitment that they have put in adapting their instruments. On the other hand, there is an issue on which I believe we must ask the government to make greater efforts. I am referring to the negotiation you should make with the Italian Banking Association (ABI) to ensure that the fees on electronic payment instruments and the way in which the machines used for this, on the credit card side and on the bank side, can be substantially reduced. Mr President, if we look at the number of transactions that have already grown significantly, it is easy to calculate the largest revenue that banks and credit cards have earned. I then believe that the government can open a negotiation with the ABI in order to significantly reduce the commissions on these instruments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u93	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking about the issue of cashback, because I believe it is necessary and an opportunity to highlight an important point. From the moment it was established, with a budget law that had a different majority, to date, the question of the so-called cashback has seen the formation of a new government and, above all, the need for the political forces to take account of the path that this government has set itself. We know them, we repeat them often and maybe they don't end up in broadcasts, more or less yelled, that are seen in the evening, but we know perfectly well that the impulse that has been given to the issue of vaccines should induce us all, all political forces, to concentrate on the numbers and the course of the campaign, because on that will depend, inevitably, the reopenings and the resumption of life in this country. I remember that this measure was born with the past budget law, daughter of another majority, obviously in an economic framework that is not what we are going to face. I therefore think it is a little difficult to think of moving a sum, which, in fact, is already largely committed, from one purpose to another. It would probably be more useful for all of us to reason on the possible type of deviation, if a deviation will have to be made with the economic and financial programming document calibrated on the necessary needs, those we see every day, of course, not only in the manifestations, but also on the overall development of the vaccination plan. The question of cashback must be corrected, on this there is no doubt, in the light of some data. One, mentioned earlier by the previous speaker, relates to bank charges. Certainly it must be corrected, even with reference to the absence of minimum thresholds, because very often we talk about subjects that make more transactions, for example for the purchase of fuel and gasoline. However, there is a fact, highlighted by the Ambrosetti Report very recently. The prospect of this cashback, beyond the more specific issue, often mentioned, of the fight against tax evasion, from December 2020 to December 2022, is to give 24 billion additional consumption, with revenue, spread over two years, of 4.4 billion and a number of advantages not indifferent to the state's coffers, but also to the habit of electronic payment. Another study has certified that about 70 percent of people use it. With this I mean therefore that, in the light of a picture that has changed and that should see everyone engaged on the purposes that I have remembered, cashback is a measure that must definitely be modified and recalibrated, but it cannot, in my personal opinion, be a matter of life or death. We have other issues of life or death (we have come together for this and we work for this), as surely is, every day, the control of vaccinations that have been done and of how much are going on in the country the covers for weak and elderly, and then move on to the other categories. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u95	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u96	Mr President, I too am speaking with respect to cashback, remembering that the Budget Act 2020, which had provided for it, had seen the League in a position contrary to that, especially with regard to the demonisation of the use of cash. I first use a lot for my payments credit card and home banking services; however, we must remember that there are many people (faces of people) who do not, because they are elderly. One day a person who was a little uncomfortable told me: "What do you want me to do with the ATM, if I take 600 euros a month?" They are people who do not have this habit and who above all live with very low figures, so they are absolutely disinterested in this method of payment. The recommendation from the European Commission was to adopt systems to combat evasion and digitisation based on a lower use of cash. With the Italian Cashless Plan, cashback and the lottery of receipts were planned at the end of 2019, before the most dramatic period of our country's and the whole world's life began. I think that no one in this House wants to propose stopping everything because cashback is not good; absolutely not. However, cash must certainly continue to be used and above all, if an endowment has been made and needs a corrective, given the needs arising from the pandemic, let us stop and do a monitoring to see what has happened since 8 December, drawing conclusions from it. I remember an article in "Il Sole 24 Ore" on December 11th, which highlighted many critical issues. It is a new tool and so let's see how it worked, but above all let's remember one thing: in the experimental phase, during the days around Christmas, from December 24 to January 7, which were lockdown, many expenses were not made. If Italy had not been closed at that time and if there had been tourism, it was said that the figure initially allocated in the experimental phase to cover cashback would not have been sufficient. It is therefore appropriate to make evaluations and to see how the experimental phase went, considering what the needs of now are. Nobody says you shouldn't go to an increasingly digitalized world. However, consider that the people who already used cards as a payment method will continue to do so, and the new generations will probably do so, while there are other people who are out. It has happened to me several times, when I go shopping, to see someone who fails to do well and who has the problem of not having credit card coverage; so, in the midst of a huge embarrassment, he is forced to remove something in order to be able to pay or he has to give up the shopping and leave. It's very sad. I therefore believe that very responsible monitoring is necessary in order to optimise the system. This does not mean blocking, not wanting to go to the future and not wanting there to be an emergence of tax evasion, but seeing with rationality the effectiveness of a measure. Wherever we can, at a time of extreme difficulty for our companies, turn figures towards those who fail to move forward with their own enterprise, it is right, if necessary, to restore it. I would therefore say that it is really very simple. I think that if you could have a constructive attitude of this kind, this could encourage attention and progress for our country and for our citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u97	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, it is my belief that this motion is not based on facts, figures, statistics and irrefutable evidence, but takes place within the framework of a more general political contrast, which is quite legitimate, moreover, to the work of these years of government of President Count and of Movimento 5 Stars, trying to challenge, ridicule and delight anything done, even the most successful ones, such as the one we are dealing with today. [[Applause]] The area newspapers, in fact, about this motion today title "A soccer to the Giuseppi era" (cito "Il Tempo") or, again, "Cancellare il bonus di Conte" is worth 5 billion " (and I quote "Free"). The proposers point out that it would be necessary to demonstrate that the measures are genuinely effective in order to achieve the public objectives that are legitimately to be achieved and that, therefore, there should be clear and unequivocal evidence that the cashback mechanism allows in fact to achieve the public objective of combating tax evasion. Let's see then what these numbers are, the ones known to date, that is only four months after the start of the cashback plan, but first of all let's analyze the goals that we had set ourselves. These included, first of all, increasing electronic payments, in which we are 24th in the 27 countries of the European Union, with a per capita payment that is about half the European average. The increase in the number of electronic payments brings a number of huge advantages, including a lower cash circulation, which allows significant savings in its management, which costs both economic operators and the state. Think of the insurance charges against thefts or robberies or security, anti-counterfeiting checks and so on. Consumption, which has been very low for years, is also increasing, also due to the economic crisis that we have been carrying since 2008. Then there is the emergence of a part of the black economy, resulting in an increase in the tax base, which can lead to a greater effectiveness of the fight against tax evasion and a general reduction in taxes. What are the available data we can talk about to date? A part was provided to us by the Undersecretary Durigon, of the League, a few days ago, answering a question to the House. First of all, it has debunked the fake news of the so-called smarts, which concern only 0.2 percent [[Applause]] of total payments of more than 10 euros and 2% of payments between 30 cents and 5 euros. In March, there were more than 8 million citizens, 7 million of whom were active users, and registered payment instruments increased from 9.6 million in December to over 14 million in March. Among these, the active payment instruments increased from 6.7 million in December to 9.7 million in February, an increase of about 20 per cent per month: they are always data provided by the Undersecretary Durigon. All this, which is a resounding success, has been achieved in a few weeks, thanks only and exclusively to the incentive provided by the cashback, which, I remember, can reach a maximum of 300 euros per year per citizen. In addition, SPID (Public Digital Identity System) digital identities tripled in a few months: in just under a year, they went from 5.7 million in January last year to 16.4 million in January this year. According to a survey by the Community cashless society, 70 percent of Italians think that cashback has led to a more frequent use of electronic means of payment. In any case, the fact is that more than 20 percent of the payment on physical POS passes through this measure. In terms of the recovery of the submerged, according to the Report of Ambrosetti "Italy cashless: changes in place and future prospects" will arrive at a recovery of 1.2 billion. Instead, it is estimated that until 2022 the increase in consumption will be of 14 billion euros, therefore with an increase of revenues pairs to 4,4 billion euros. If these are the numbers, it means that the measure, until the end of 2022, will cost little more than 300 million euros, but it will bring in dote a recovery of the submerged, the creation of a platform through which citizens and public administration will be able to interlogate and pass all the payments and a generalized and long-term lowering of the taxation. If this isn't a success, explain it to me. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u99	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is against the motion and accepts the agenda which commits the Commission to further monitoring the cashback programme, including with a view to taking possible corrective measures, with a retrospective assessment of costs and benefits, in a more general framework of digital reform and modernisation of the system of payments made outside the exercise, of business activity, art or profession.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u101	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u104	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, Senators and fellow Senators, members of the Government, today we are talking about a subject that has been very much debated over the last period. As has already been said, cashback is an initiative that allows you to get 10 percent of the expenses incurred at physical shops (so not virtually) with electronic payments, i.e. using credit card, debit card, prepaid, ATM and payment applications. The reimbursement is expected to a maximum of EUR 300 per year, i.e. up to EUR 150 per semester, against at least 50 payments. The maximum refund for each transaction is instead of 15 euros. Unlike the so-called Cashback Payout, there is no minimum amount of expenditure for cashback and those participating in the programme can also contribute to the award of the super cashback, i.e. a cash prize of up to 3,000 euros, which is granted to the first 100,000 citizens who carry out the largest number of transactions with electronic payments. The measure had been launched experimentally in December last year with the so-called Christmas cashback, but it is only since January 2021 that this instrument has actually entered the system. The aim, repeatedly mentioned, is to promote cashless payments (i.e. without cash), in order to introduce the habit of using credit cards and thus avoid tax evasion with so-called black payments. Italy Viva believes that the digitisation of payments is an important tool for combating tax evasion and in this sense we have moved before with the introduction of e-invoicing. However, it is essential to ensure that cashback has a significant effect on revenue, because the relationship between the use of cash and tax evasion is rather weak, as at present the direction of the causal link between the two phenomena is uncertain. However, this is objectively a system that should enable us to achieve the results I was talking about. At the same time, there is also the need to balance interests that are all worthy of protection and that directly concern the costs and benefits of a measure that involves a substantial allocation of resources, possibly also considering instruments that are more useful and less costly to promote the use of electronic money (that is, of course, alongside this initiative). From the first months of use of this instrument it has been shown that the operation has however some criticalities. Some have considered the operation to be too costly and further problems have arisen thanks to the reporting of service station operators and distributors, who have reported on the so-called'smarts' mentioned by the previous speaker in general debate. These are subjects that, exploiting some gaps of this measure, manage to obtain a greater refund, which allows them to quickly scale the ranking of the superbonus cashback, increasing the chances to reach the prize of 3,000 euros per year. The method most used by these subjects is microtransaction. This modus operandi consists of splitting a single purchase into several transactions. These are absolutely legal transactions, but at the same time they can represent excessive costs in terms of a commission for exhibitors, who are obviously obliged, for each transaction, to pay a commission. Of course, this is a problem that will have to be addressed because, at the very least, it is a burden on operators, as I said, and in some way we will have to do better controls and find a system that prevents those who benefit from the service from doing the operations in this way. Just think - and I quote just one example - that a few days ago, in the Province of Siena, the episode in which a subject, in order to pay a fuel supply of 50 euros, made an incredible number of micro-transactions and the operation, for 50 euros of fuel, lasted 37 minutes. It is clear that the supplier's manager will have had to pay for each mini-transaction of one or two euros the commission and this obviously has a lot to do with the load, as I said, of the operators and operators. Even in the face of these critical issues, therefore, the will to use the resources of the instrument has been manifested several times also to support refreshments and supports in this delicate historical moment. The assumptions put forward so far are two: the early stop to the entire cashback program, that is to say, close in July, in order to save the users who registered in the first semester and recover therefore three billions, or the closure only of the super cashback (every six months the first 100,000 citizens who make the most transactions get 1,500 euros). With the super cashback, therefore, you can earn up to 3,000 euros a year. In this context, it is more than ever necessary that the resources made available, which are far from unlimited, be used in channels that can effectively restart the country and that can therefore facilitate the groups most severely affected by the economic crisis generated by the epidemiological emergency. Italy Viva - Italian Socialist Party considers instead that it is necessary to carry out an in-depth verification of the usefulness of this instrument and its criticalities, so that it can possibly affix the remedies that are necessary. The criticalities emerged unequivocally in these first months of application, as it is natural to have happened, being new and innovative tools, which therefore must have a cammin development doing, in order to avoid those critical things that I mentioned earlier. It is for this reason that Italy Viva - Italian Socialist Party will vote in favour of the agenda to assess the actual costs and benefits of this instrument, in a framework of intervention and reform, modernisation and digitisation of payments that is as wide as possible, so as to achieve those results that cashback also intended to achieve. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u107	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, at last the House is debating the motion on cashback that the Fratelli d'Italia Group had tabled on 26 January, in order to ask that the 5 billion thrown into the useless initiative of cashback and the lottery of receipts be destined instead to things much more useful, for example to save businesses and jobs. We had presented it on January 26 as the Brothers of Italy, we were very happy when the center-right forces asked to present it jointly, so that the motion we are discussing today bears the signatures not only of the Senators of the Brothers of Italy, but also those of the Senators of the League and of Forza Italia. Thanks to this, the motion tabled has more than one fifth of the senators as signatories, so you have the privilege of using the abbreviated procedure provided for in Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which I read because, as President Calderoli is not myself, I do not know him by heart: If a motion is signed by at least one fifth of the members of the Senate, it shall be discussed no later than the 30th day of the presentation. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate provide that our motion should have been discussed not later than 25 February, therefore before the so-called decree-law supports, and it would have been useful to have this Assembly expressed before the aforementioned provision, perhaps to devote more resources to it. Instead, we only discuss it seventy days later, trampling the Rules of Procedure of the Senate; on the other hand, a Palace that does not care about the law for much more serious issues such as the Copasir and the democratic protection of the institutions, let alone how much one can care about the regulations of the Senate. Both the top institutions, as well as the big media, are silent and North Korea is closer [[Applause]] Giorgia Meloni, leader of the democratic opposition to this Government, wrote personally to Prime Minister Mario Draghi, to submit the question of cashback to him, knowing that he at least devotes more attention to numbers and figures. We can imagine it, hands in the hair, in front of a falcon of numbers and calculator in the hand. Cashback: €1,750 million in 2021, €3,000 million in 2022. Lottery of receipts: 135 million euros. Total sum: 4.885 million euros for cashback and receipt lottery, also taken from the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Can you imagine Dragons having to justify these amounts in Europe? It is not easy, because in front of this madness of cashback even the wheelchairs, the billions of the holiday bonus, those for scooters, glasses and even the so-called bonus faucets seem to have greater dignity. Is it possible that no state in the world had this brilliant idea of the receipt lottery? We went to check it out, and that's not true. Italy is not the first; before us Zimbabwe in 2000 decided, through its central bank, to introduce a lottery to try to promote consumption. The lottery won in the end by President Mugabe (when you say luck), to whom I invite you to give a round of applause [[Applause),]] for such a win. The fact is that, excluding Mugabe's Italy and Zimbabwe, no one has ever used this instrument, because it is nonsense, as the European Central Bank (ECB) wrote us politely in its letter of 14 December addressed to the then Minister Gualtieri, repeating two concepts mentioned several times. Firstly, there is no direct link between the use of cash and the fight against evasion. This is what the ECB says, but it was also said some time ago by the then Minister Padoan who, with all due respect for his colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars and for the colleague who spoke before me, knows a little more about economics than they do. There is therefore no link between the fight against cash and the fight against evasion. Where's the escape? In large multinational companies, banks, stores, open and close, dear to the Chinese, in bogus cooperatives, dear to the left, in money transfers that the Government has taxed. Well, if you want to make the escape war, take action on all of this. I would therefore like to focus on the second concept, which the ECB reiterates: cash, i.e. the euro banknote, is the only legal tender currency in the eurozone. Scriptural currency is not legal tender currency, it is private currency in the hands of private institutions, which therefore offer a service and, rightly, in exchange for it, demand a compensation. Until the model of your dear North Korea is implemented in Italy, it is not in the power of the State to impose on a private individual the amount to which it is to sell its product. The banks then sell their Scriptural money at the price they consider most advantageous. Europe tells us that the fight against cash in favour of Scriptural currency is at the disadvantage of the most disadvantaged sections of the population. Wasn't this the most pro-European government in Italian history, from Enea onwards? Then try, at least on this, to listen to the ECB. You think that we of Brothers of Italy are so pro-European that we ask that Italy have the same limit to the cash that has the economy that drives the eurozone, that is, Germany. Does the latter have no limit to cash? It will mean that we will have no limit on cash until Germany sets up one. What is the point of encouraging e-money? Simply to favour the banks and the big tax brother and the state; the voyeur state that wants to know - in words used by members of this House - who spends, for what. Instead, we think that a citizen has the freedom to spend his money as he thinks best, without having to explain it to the government and institutions. In fact, in the end comes the suspicion that you want to eliminate the cash so as to remove the 50 cent coins to the Italians to prevent them from pulling after you when you leave the Palace. [[Applause]] If you haven't figured it out, the Italians are desperate. The Association artisans and small enterprises Mestre CGIA has calculated that in 2020 423 billion euros of turnover have been lost, against which the aid of the State is 11,3 lost and 29 billion total. Added to this is the so-called support decree that only puts in place 11 billion lost funds. This means that overall system losses are only filled by 2.7 percent. The last Istat report, a few days ago, notes that in 2020 we registered one million fewer jobs; Confcommercio says 300,000 companies are at risk and with them two million jobs. In front of all this there is no one of common sense who really believes that it has a logic to keep 5 billion in cashback and in the lottery of receipts. Everyone has already said that in words. I have seen that Senator Misiani of the Democratic Party will intervene after me, who has already stated that it is better to hijack on poverty programmes the 3 billion allocated in 2022 for cashback. I imagine, therefore, that, when he intervenes, he will repeat these words, declaring the vote in favour of the motion presented by Brothers of Italy. In conclusion, the leader of the Salvini League stated that he would use cashback money to help those who work in tourism and that the lottery of receipts is nonsense. As well as the statements of Italia Viva and Forza Italia. So, in words, the motion before us has a majority in this House in order to be able to allocate the 5 billion to companies in difficulty and save millions of jobs. Brothers of Italy has the habit of having the actions followed by the words it says; we hope that the other political forces will have the same decency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u110	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, Italy is clearly lagging behind in the dissemination and use of electronic money. All international comparisons tell us this. The average, in Italy, is 61 transactions with electronic money per inhabitant, against a European figure of 168 transactions, not to mention the country where electronic money is most widespread, Denmark, which is at an altitude of 386, against - I repeat - the 61 transactions of a country like Italy, which instead is at the top of the international rankings for the diffusion of cash, in relation to gross domestic product, or the volume of the economy. This delay generates a series of critical issues, the first of which is the link, demonstrated by numerous studies, between the lack of use of electronic money and the extent of the black economy and tax evasion, which is a structural problem of our country, quantified in more than 100 billion euros by the reports that are published every year on the occasion of the drafting of the Update Note to the DEF. There is a second element of criticality, less known, but very significant, and it is the costs of managing this huge mass of cash present in the Italian economy, which the Bank of Italy estimates in billions of euros - I think it is 8 billion euros - that are burned each year to manage cash payments, which instead could be made with more modern, safer and enormously cheaper tools than the management of banknotes and coins. The previous Government Count 2, has launched an ambitious plan to modernise our payment system, the Italian Cashless Plan. The cashback programme, which is the subject of the motion and agenda that we are debating today in this House, is a significant part of this programme, because the amount of resources allocated to the cashback programme reaches 5 billion euros, from here to 2022, but it is only one piece, because that programme has also provided for the progressive lowering of the limit of use of cash, from 3,000 euros to 1,000 euros, the tax credit for traders for the costs of managing electronic money, the deductibility of a series of expenses, only if they are carried out with electronic money, the introduction with an increased amount of the good electronic meal, which goes from 7 to 8 euros, and the lottery of receipts, which has become recently operational. It is the most articulated programme at European level. The cashback, which is undoubtedly at the heart of this programme, has undoubtedly been a great success and we must take this into account when we go to evaluate the pros and cons. Over 8 million citizens have activated and signed up for the program, with 14,600,000 payment cards and 355 million transactions registered on the portal, which allows access to the program. A recent survey, published by the Ambrosetti study, tells us that almost two thirds of Italians favor this program of modernization of the payments, in particular the cashback program, and the estimate of the Ambrosetti study is of a potential of recovery of the tax revenues up to 4.2 billion euros, to regime, effect of the emergence of the underground economy, deriving from the traceability of the transactions carried out with electronic money. So we can say: "Everything is fine, Madame Marquise"? No, because it is clear that a programme of this ambition needs systematic monitoring, the things to be corrected have gradually emerged and have been the subject of a debate, which has opened up in the media and which, in my little one, I have taken part in. My personal view is that corrective elements should be introduced, that more focus should be placed on certain elements of this programme, so that it does not become regressive, that is to say that it is too generous with people with high incomes and does not help to evolve towards electronic money - as is necessary - the weakest sections of the population. I believe that we need to strengthen the part of aid and support for traders, who have to bear a number of costs for the use of electronic payment instruments, as I believe that cost-benefit considerations are needed on the allocation of resources for the cashback programme, because 4.75 billion are very large and are even more so at a very difficult economic and social stage such as the one we are experiencing. From this point of view, I believe that the content shared by the majority forces is in the right direction. It is not fair, as it is written in the motion signed by Ciriani and others, to suspend the program before having made a rigorous evaluation, numbers in the hand. We ask the Government: to make an assessment and make Parliament aware of the progress of the programme and to intervene with improved measures on a programme that is contributing, as the first data that have been published and made available to us tell us. In my opinion, a better focus and a redefinition of some parameters of the plan would help the cashback program to work better, to do its duty to support the modernisation of the payment system and allow us - which is not despicable - to save significant resources compared to the initial allocation that we could allocate to the economic and social emergency at a difficult stage for the country. I think it is a reasonable position: to evaluate and know and then to deliberate, and that is why we will vote against the motion signed by Ciriani and others and we will support, instead, a different line that I have tried to set out. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u113	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I believe that the aggression against cashback, which I consider absolutely ideological and at the same time very concrete - even if we are accused of being ideological on this other side - is actually the result of the position, this ideological and concrete yes, of those who may have done the same kind of battle when measures were launched for the limitation of cash and a number of other measures always in this respect. That position has never wanted to deal to the end with two serious issues for our country, two factors that cost the community very much and that are at the same time a reason for delay in the development of the country itself. The first is tax evasion. None of us think that tax evasion can be defeated only through electronic payment systems or through cashback, to which I will return. In reality, however, this is the fact that we have to face up to. Perhaps we should re-read the report accompanying the Update Note because, as Mr Misiani mentioned earlier, the data on tax evasion with regard to our country are frankly, and unfortunately also constantly, very worrying. What do they tell us? They tell us about a subtraction of very important resources, huge for the country. You think what this means in this pandemic, today that, once again, we have to work on a further deviation, putting in place other substantial resources in a new measure to support all categories and people in difficulty. Go look at the data on tax evasion and understand that huge damage it constantly causes to citizens and the country. It is no coincidence, then, that the European Commission is always sending out recommendations on this. It is, I believe, one of the fundamental issues that the Draghi Government should consider, especially since even in the European recommendations accompanying the National Recovery and Resilience Plan tax reform is required, which can only be associated with a real fight, to the full, with tax evasion. The other structural element of delay consists in the fact that our country is almost at the last places for the use of electronic payments and this also has a cost. The huge cash management, in fact, has many costs: it has a social cost and an economic cost, from every point of view. You understand, above all, what reflections the wide use of cash has and what damages it causes. Addressing the issue of electronic payments to the full, encouraging their access, not only makes a qualitative leap in the European ranking, but also constitutes a fundamental element to recover the structural gap of our country's economy. It is a very serious issue, not because we are passionate about statistics or rankings, but because that delay produces very serious damage and is closely linked, of course, to tax evasion. An unmarked payment produces damage from every point of view, not only from the point of view of fiscal infidelity, but also from the point of view of legality, which is another issue that we should take very much into account. Tax evasion is of course faced with a direct contrast, of interests, but also finally giving a boost to the modernization of the country. The cashback worked, because the data is very clear from this point of view. There has been a very strong accession, it has received a strong welcome from the citizens and of course it has meant that there was finally a huge increase (from 9.6 million electronic payments recorded on the app in December to 14 million, with a month-by-month increase), 20%, the use of electronic payment. Of course, this leads to a massive push towards facing another structural delay that we have in terms of digital innovation. This instrument is helping us greatly. The data on SPID (Public Digital Identity System) identity activations, which also allow a different relationship between the citizen and the public administration, were mentioned earlier. We complained about the many resources. Yes, a lot of resources have probably been allocated. There was someone who took advantage of it, with payments of 10, 15, 20 cents, but we are talking about 0.2 percent. It is therefore absolutely necessary, as we ask for on the agenda, to start monitoring seriously, without interrupting the programme now, in order to have all the elements available and to see what corrections must be made, which may allow us to recover resources to invest in the sectors that are most in need. Of course, there's no doubt about it. How can one really fail to understand that it has been and is a tool that has made us take a big step forward in the use of electronic payments? You have to do another job, too, of course. If in fact in Italy we have a great delay in the use of electronic payments, which we are recovering also thanks to cashback, we also have a big problem: we must eliminate - and also on this we must concentrate the action and pressure of the Government - all the jumps and jumps that the exhibitors have to pay. This the previous Government had already begun to do so, so we must continue. But I absolutely do not believe that we must criminalise or abandon this instrument; instead, we must monitor and verify whether changes are needed to improve it. Cashback is a tool that has proven to be effective and important, and that many citizens have appreciated. I believe that the agenda is very clear, so we announce our vote in favour of the agenda and our vote against the motion tabled by Brothers of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u116	FERRO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in Forza Italia have never been in love with the bonus economy, because we consider it an economic policy that does not really reward those who are worth it. We recognize, as previous speakers have said, that there has been some benefit, but be careful: if we have carefully read the Ambrosetti study, mentioned by some previous colleagues, we note that this system has created a further gap within the country. It is twofold, if you want: there is a very strong gap between the developed North, where the use of electronic payment is more accentuated, and other parts of the country that have not used it; and, within this, a further distinction has been created: we have seen that the use of electronic payment is favored and used more by the people who are better. Here, we have a society that rewards only those who are well and does not favor those who are sick. We must therefore promote upward growth of all. With regard to what I have heard in general debate, we all know the current situation: today, in addition to the infrastructure gaps that so many of our citizens have, for their age and economic situation, the pandemic crisis has also been added. Today, in my opinion, this instrument should be updated and verified, because we believe that things have changed a bit since it was conceived and implemented. To have a cashless community society they need pillars and cashback is one of them; it makes no sense to think of being able to recover that gap that has been called back by stopping at cashback only. We need a strategic, ambitious and systemic vision for cashless society in Italy, but we don't have it; we only stopped at the first stage. It is true that in absolute value the percentages were minimal, but in the public opinion they have caused a lot of annoyance to the smart guys who went to make 10 cents of gasoline in order to get into the lottery. A society that points to the lottery we do not like; we like a more concrete society. [[Applause]] We would also like to point out that it is written on our agenda that we must adjust and update the situation, create a consultation and punctual verification table, to see if the instruments put in place have been implemented and respond fully to the vision we had before. In this period of crisis with smaller and smaller resources we don't like interventions like the bonus economy. There are entire sectors of the country that are suffering. We must not make it an ideological battle, but we must focus on the things that actually and really serve. It is clear that there is a whole world that is being born and that revolves around cashless society, but let's be careful because the gaps that we have to recover in our country are multiple and to go forward only on cashback means to make only a small part of successive steps that at the moment we are not able to do. The conditions have changed; the macroeconomic concert has changed; the pandemic has had unexpected variations that are making our economy even worse. We saw what happened yesterday. I also repeat, on behalf of Forza Italia, our solidarity with the police forces because it is legitimate for them to protest, but violence must be left out. [[Applause]] We move from reason to wrong if we turn acts of legitimate and democratic protest into acts of violence. We therefore express solidarity with the police and the forces of order that preserve the democratic order in our country. I was saying that there is a whole world that revolves around this vision and this ambitious project that in this context I have the feeling we do not have the energy, the economic and material resources to be able to endure. For this reason, we will abstain on the motion tabled by Senator Ciriani and we will vote in favour of our agenda because we want the current situation to be dealt with. The conditions have changed and we believe that making an ideological issue today just to plant a flag is harmful to us and our country. Preconditions have changed. I listened earlier to Mr Pellegrini, who mentioned a speech by Mr Durigon. I don't have that data, but I have previous data from the Observatory on public spending, which gave different numbers. I take note of what you said and will check it out. It is clear that, being a bonus, all funds will be committed. It would be silly not to think that. To say that it went well because all the money will be committed is not correct because it has to be asked whether this action has produced real effectiveness. I'd say no in the end today. Let us keep it together; let us verify the exact point of the situation and, once we share - I hope - the broadest possible majority in Parliament, we can start again. Mr President, I declare our abstention on the motion and vote in favour of the majority agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u119	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, let us be clear: the agenda prepared by the forces that support this Government has been designed to ensure that every political force takes it a bit towards its own position. It was a particularly well done work of balance. I don't like being hypocritical, so let's start with that. Rightly, Senator De Petris intervened by saying that it is right to monitor him, so we go in that direction, but I can say that from the point of view of the League, in fact, monitoring must serve to ensure that the maneuver is corrected and that cashback can also be clearly eliminated, if it really does not work well. [[Applause]] We know, however, that the moment is special and we all have to make an effort; we also do so. We do our part in a reasonable way, even though we have signed the motion tabled by Brothers of Italy on the abolition of cashback. Some might then ask: why do you of the League, but also colleagues of Forza Italia, have signed this agenda, which says everything and the opposite of everything? [[Comments.]] I respect everyone's ideas but, if I may, I would like to explain why. We are told that this government works in a Europeanist framework. That is what we have been told, since someone has even pointed out that we have converted to Europeanism. Well, if we work in the European framework, we must do what Europe tells us to do on this issue. Right? Then, I am sure that President Draghi will not fail to take into account the observations that the European Central Bank has made to the Italian Government, writing a letter addressed to the kind Minister. It is a letter saying that there should be clear evidence that the cashback mechanism enables the public purpose to be achieved in the fight against tax evasion. The letter says that the special reimbursement of 1,500 euros seems to be designed to encourage the use of electronic payments for limited amounts, which could instead be paid in currency. It should also bear in mind that the possibility of paying in cash remains particularly important for certain social groups, who, for various legitimate reasons, prefer to use cash rather than other payment instruments. Cash, also generally appreciated as a payment instrument because, as a legal tender, it is widely accepted, is quick and facilitates control over the expense of those who pay. In addition, cash payments do not require a functional technical infrastructure and related investments and are always available. This is particularly important in the event of an interruption of electricity, which makes electronic payments unavailable. I say, to avoid misunderstandings that I am reading the letter written by the European Central Bank. It's not the surgery I've prepared. The letter continues: Finally, cash payments facilitate the inclusion of the entire population in the economy, allowing any person to settle in cash any type of financial transaction. In this context, the ECB considers that the introduction of a cashback programme for electronic payment instruments is disproportionate, in view of the potential negative effect that such a mechanism could have on the cash payment system, as it undermines the objective of a neutral approach to the various means of payment available. The ECB would, of course, like to see a super-European government that the Italian authorities take due account of the above remarks, fulfilling its obligation to consult the European Central Bank in future, if necessary. So Europe is asking for this and we are sure that President Draghi, after careful monitoring, will understand that this rule does not work and is not good. Not because we're hypocrites, but because we know how things are. As a result, why shouldn't we trust President Draghi? That's our choice. So at least you understood it too: I'm glad and I'm pleased. In addition, 4.75 of the 10 billion dedicated to digitalization have been spent, that programme foreseen in the Resistance and Resilience Plan, rightly highlighted several times by everyone: 86 percent is the line of digital citizenship and services and about 46 percent is destined to the digitisation of public administration, which, according to everyone, must be the backbone for the rebirth of our country, promoting the economy, companies and the relationship with citizens. I do not think that Europe is very happy and very satisfied with this. It must be said that, in some cases, we are not only Europeanists, but we also put ourselves in a state of worship towards this Europeanism, which makes us understand and understand well that certain things we do are absolutely not good and absolutely must be reviewed. Finally, I hope that we will not use all the time available to facilitate the work. Those who support electronic payment at all costs pay every coffee at the bar with a credit card; on this it is better that I do not stop and that I remain silent, out of respect for everyone, because I am seeing all the colors, especially from who this measure has directly supported it. Clearly I am not angry with the citizens who are preparing to follow the directions we give them; I am angry with someone else if it is not yet clear. Let's look at what happens in Finland, where in 2018 81 percent of total payments were made with credit or debit cards or apps, while the use of cash has been reduced to 19 percent. Finland is therefore a beacon for supporters of the use of electronic money. What a fine example Finland is to follow! This news is from the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), economics section, not from other newspapers (at least we understand each other). We read that on the other hand it has happened that the debts of Finnish citizens have taken off; it is said that there are certainly various causes and that in part this is favored by the low interest rates that are breathed in the Nordic country. On the other hand - heard, heard - the increasing use of credit cards and payments through apps leads to less use of cash, but also to less control of their expenses. [[Applause]] This must be understood, that it is normal and common sense. If I pay in cash, I realize what I'm paying for; with my credit card and ATM, instead, it's not that sign and I have everything under control. It's normal. But then do we have to do something that helps our citizens or pushes them into debt? Let's think this through. We are convinced that President Draghi, with great pragmatism and great attention, will be able to assert himself on this point, respecting the indications of Europe, protecting the citizens from any further debts and, on the other hand, proposing measures against tax evasion more serious, perhaps by making the best use of the staff of the Revenue Agency to go and verify who really evades taxes, instead of going to recover credits that we know will never be recovered. For this reason we will abstain on the motion of Brothers of Italy, which we have also signed, for the reasons we have said. By voting in favour of the agenda presented by the majority, we trust that President Draghi will surely respond to our requests. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u122	OIL (M5S). Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to devote our time to discussing a motion that demonstrates the most complete political short-sightedness. [[Applause]] Before explaining why cashback is a fundamental measure, I would like to go through some points of the motion, because it is that document that accuses the cashback; so it is appropriate to analyze what is written before going on to explain why instead it is good to continue with the measure. Senator Ciriani and the other signatories claim that cashback was provided for in the budget law in order to encourage the use of electronic payment instruments. Well, so far they have said something right, because cashback is needed to increase the rate of use of electronic payment instruments by Italians and that's what it's doing. In just four months - and I am not saying this - undersecretary Durigon told the House - it has gone from 2.9 million transactions in December to 4.1 million transactions in February, with an increase of 40% in just three months. The motion goes on to say that cashback is the best known measure of the Italian Cashless Plan. It is true, but here the real news is that cashback is part of a much broader plan, which is precisely that of bringing Italy towards the digitalization of payment systems, in line with other countries, where using plastic - as it is said in jargon - is also normal for the package of candy and this has long been immemorial. We must remember that Italy - someone else has already said so - is a cash-based economy among the thirty-five worst in the world, according to the cash intensity index, which is an index that measures the impact of cash on GDP. On the other hand, cashless society index is at 23rd place in the European Union. The motion is based on the letter sent to the then Minister Gualtieri by Yves Mersch, former Governor of the Central Bank of Luxembourg, former Commissioner of the Governing Council of the ECB on 14 December 2020; if I remember correctly the newspaper news, it was sent the day before his mandate expired, which is presented here as a rejection by the ECB. Now, I don't know how many of the people here and how many of the 82 signatories of the motion have read that letter in full and not just the parts reported in the newspapers, but this letter is a coacervo of indications, often witty, that conclude with a simple relief to Italy for not having notified the ECB before putting in place the initiative of cashback. This is something I would never have expected, however, to be acquitted by so-called sovereignist political groups present in this Senate, which today call themselves Europeanists, patriotically European. [[Applause]] In practice - and here I must unfortunately read the textual words of the member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank - he says that the latter Mersch recognizes that cash can be refused for reasons related to the principle of good faith and that the Union does not explicitly address the question whether, or to what extent, it is permitted to introduce a more general restriction on the obligation to accept euro cash payments. But where is this restriction ever included in the cashback? Nowhere. And then it is said that any direct or indirect limitation or disincentive to cash payments must comply with the legal tender requirements for euro banknotes; but here there is no talk of incentive, there is talk of disincentive. And that is not the same, because depending on how it is reported and used by the press or political groups, it takes on different characters. According to Mersch, someone cannot be encouraged to do something to change the behavior and policies of the nation. So, if that's the logic, we directly abolish all the incentives for companies, because that's what he thinks we should do. [[Applause]] Then Mersch writes again (and it is always a part of the motion, as Senator Romeo said earlier): the ECB acknowledges that encouraging transactions by means of electronic means of payment for the purchase of goods and services in order to combat tax evasion, and here we return, can, in general, constitute a "public interest" that justifies the disincentive and the consequent limitation of the use of cash payments. In practice, in the same letter he returns to his steps, that is, he says that it could also be done. But here there is a note to do for the benefit of those who follow us, but especially of those who wrote this motion, because they built it focusing on the fight against tax evasion that for them is the pivot of cashback. When the MEF sent the regulation in October 2020, in addition to all the various indications (technical report, technical and regulatory analysis), it also sent the Analysis of the impact of regularisation, the so-called AIR, which says that, in principle, the new discipline will have an important systemic impact in terms of the use of electronic payment instruments on the one hand, transparency and traceability of cash transactions on the other. Positive direct effects on public finance are expected in terms of reducing the cost of cash and - attention - potentially reducing and countering the black economy. On four parameters, the fourth is that of the reduction of the underground economy and is also said to be "potentially": therefore it is something not wanted, nor quantified. Therefore, reducing cashback to a measure to combat tax evasion means not having understood the measure itself. But we are here to explain and explain whether cashback has achieved the other objectives, namely the first three. I'm sure the bankers have recently released a few indications. Those who use the credit card and adhere to the cashback use it 22 percent more than those who have the credit card in their pockets but do not adhere to the program. In addition, the number of cashback participants' transactions increased by 34% in the range between 0 and 10 euros, by 33% in the range between 10 and 25 euros and by 20% in the range between 25 and 50 euros. This means that transactions have increased and, therefore, spending on small traders, which are precisely those we must try to support with a revival of the economy and not just with the refreshment of what is lost. As for the criticism of the so-called smarts, the news has already been reported and I will not dwell on the famous transactions of 10 cents, also because it is 0.2% of the total, therefore a minimal thing. Let us return to Mersch's letter, which is very interesting and concludes with a wonderful defense of the use of cash, stating that the possibility of paying in cash remains particularly important for certain social groups which, for various legitimate reasons (it does not say what and we overwhelm on why), prefer to use cash rather than other payment instruments. Mersch also writes that cash is of particular importance in the event of power failure. This has been recalled by Senator Romeo, to whom I remember, without advertising, that there are credit card payment systems that function quietly without electricity because they use tools that do not need them. The European Central Bank probably did not read the document well because it focused only on the fiscal aspect, which - I repeat - is on the fourth point. So it is fabulous that Commissioner Mersch finally tells us what is the point of transition from convenience in the use of cash to plastic. He says so and without even verifying the motives. Then came the article of the Ambrosetti forum, according to which the use for two years of cashback would generate extra consumption, extra revenue for 23 billion euros and extra tax revenue for 5.3 billion euros, of which 1.2 billion euros submerged; moreover, in the period between 2020 and 2025 would generate, between VAT recovery and undeclared, about 9 billion euros. The Brothers of Italy have used a series of journalistic statements, claiming that the resources of cashback could be devoted to all those activities forced to close, because protecting the work is a duty of the State, as well as working is a right of the citizen. In fact, you have done nothing but confirm that cashback is an excellent measure, as it supports exactly the relaunch of all those operators who today, with the only refreshment, would do nothing but cover part of the costs incurred, while also with cashback you generate an additional expense that will help them return to a normal life. [[Applause]] And we know very well that, during this period, savings in Italy have grown precisely because they were not spent. The IO application, on which the system managed by PagoPA is based, is an innovative solution that broadens the possibilities for citizens, businesses and local authorities. The more citizens will be present on this application, the more the municipalities will be able to provide services in a totally new way, to the benefit of the needs of the municipality itself and the citizens. Among other things - I remember it for everyone - we have also included the concept of tax in the PNRR in an app precisely to improve the relationship between the Revenue Agency and citizens, simplifying access to and management of the tax system. In conclusion, cashback is changing payment habits: users have increased from 6 million to 8.3 million, the use of paper (22 percent more than before) has increased to consumption in neighboring shops (e.g. 56% for groceries) and the use threshold has been lowered (it is 51 percent the transaction threshold below 20 euros). Of course, as for each measure, after a period of application, it is certainly correct to check the parameters and results and to understand whether it is necessary to better direct the efforts in one direction or another in order to maximize the results. And although it makes sense to think of doing so also for cashback, with the excellent results achieved so far, it is clear that we must certainly think of improvements, but not of its interruption as a measure. For the reasons indicated, therefore, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, the vote against the motion tabled by Senator Ciriani and the vote in favour of the agenda of the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u123	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 317 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator Dell'Olio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Comments.]] I suspend the session until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.40 p.m. and resumed at 624 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u124	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00332, tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators, and 1-00296, tabled by Senator Castellone and other senators, on the strengthening of home care for patients with Covid-19. I call Senator Romeo to explain motion 332.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u125	Mr President, the motion that we have tabled as a Lega Group is based on the assumption that it is a very topical subject, that we should try to update the international protocol on home care for the patients of Covid-19. There has been an open debate on this issue for several weeks. There are several doctors who have proposed solutions that go beyond the current protocol (watch and use of paracetamol) and foresee the use of other types of drugs that - it has been verified - have managed to avoid the hospitalization of patients treating them directly at home. Many doctors do important direct visiting work in patients' homes. By examining the patient, the symptoms can immediately understand that it is Covid, maybe even before the result of the swab and, therefore, prescribe immediately anti-inflammatory. And this system of rapid use of medicines to treat the patient immediately manages to stop the disease and to prevent it from degenerating into something very serious that forces him to go to hospital. We have distinguished people who have given several interviews in the newspapers, from Professor Remuzzi, to Dr. Mangiagalli, to Dr. Cavanna. There are direct experiences of these doctors and in this regard I would like to thank the Undersecretary Sileri for having received these doctors who have gathered and have also organized committees. And of course he has committed himself - it has to be honest - from a point of view not only verbal, but also practical and concrete to put those doctors in contact with the structures of the Ministry so that we can - it is the true content of the motion - take advantage of the updating of protocols also of the experiences of such doctors using all the drugs that can really fight the virus most. We all know the importance of attention to the territory, home care, the timeliness of intervention to prevent people clogging hospitals. In any case, these doctors have shown that you can cure the Covid and heal. I would like to stress the commitment of some colleagues of the League, and not only of the Health Commission - I am thinking of Senators Siri and Bagnai - who have met many of these doctors and listened to their requests and today we are here to try to take together a political commitment so that the Ministry of Health can arrive at very clear and precise guidelines to prevent a region from taking a road and another taking a different one. Let us all try to standardize the protocol, so that we can then act more decisively and, therefore, take an example from all experiences. I think this is the best method. The Undersecretary has already made it available, but, rightly so, we also give a strong political signal to the entire national community that we are dealing with this issue. And, I am convinced that work will continue in this direction. Since we have also found a common agenda, I have been announcing for hours that our motion will be withdrawn, because we have joined this common agenda which, as I understand it, concerns the whole of the House and, therefore, all the groups. And this is a sign of great importance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u126	I call Senator Pirro to explain motion 296.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the last year has changed our lives forever and has changed the way we look at the National Health System. They have entered into common use terms that we would never have imagined to know. We know everything - for example - about antigenic, molecular, contagion index tests Rt. SARS-Cov-2 has entered our lives by stressing the ability to respond to health facilities and has made us understand that early detection of cases, rapid diagnostic tests, home stay for quarantine or isolation depend heavily on the territorial organisation present in the different regional contexts. And here's a lot to say. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the network of territorial services in order to reduce the need for hospitalisation and the consequent overload of hospital health services. Even today we feel difficult situations in guaranteeing territorial assistance to all people who need diagnostic and therapeutic pathways related to the emergency Covid-19; in providing operational indications aimed at identifying and early taking care of patients with suspect Covid-19; in ensuring health surveillance and assistance to fragile people, as they are more exposed to risk and the need, indeed, of an implemented responsibility We are proceeding more and more quickly with the vaccination campaign, but we must not neglect the many who still contract the virus today. Early treatment of infections has a preventive value compared to hospitalization in intensive and sub-intensive care. Therefore, it is necessary to promote early home therapies and the use of monoclonal antibodies, which are finally available in our country also thanks to the commitment of my colleague Castellone and undersecretary Sileri. Moreover, it is necessary to guarantee the territorial responsibility of persons who have resigned from hospitalization, establishing a correct path of continuity hospital-territory, with the aim of improving its appropriateness, offering assistance to people and avoiding that this passage becomes an opportunity for contagion; a path that must then become and remain one of the pillars of a renewed health system, as we say for a long time. Unfortunately, tackling the pandemic has also led to a reduction in ordinary activities and a decrease in care for people with chronic, often multiple diseases, increasing their fragility. Therefore, ensuring the functionality of the entire network of territorial services, especially those aimed at the most fragile people, is an ethical commitment and cultural renewal, as well as organizational, and represents a public health responsibility that assumes particular importance during the current health emergency. For these reasons, with our motion we ask that protocols and guidelines be updated for the take-up of home by doctors of general medicine, free choice pediatricians and doctors of the territory of patients Covid-19; that a ministerial monitoring table be established in which all the professionalities involved in the routes of territorial assistance are represented. In short, as we have always said, home care, territorial medicine, telemedicine are fundamental points to improve our National Health Service. In the National Recovery and Resilience Plan we highlighted this and asked that we really focus on a medicine focused on the patient and his needs, on the person and not on the disease. Today we are asking for the same thing. Covid-19 patients must be assisted in the best way already in their homes, because only by intervening in time and in the right way will we be able to decrease and prevent the worsening of the disease, with the next dramatic entry into intensive care. [[Applause]] Only in this way will we be able to lighten our hospitals and gradually, together with vaccines, to gradually return to sociality, with everything that follows from the point of view of health, economic and also human. In addition, as Senator Romeo announced earlier, we will also proceed to withdraw our motion to converge on the agenda that we have all signed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u128	I declare the debate open. Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u129	Mr Undersecretary, I thank you for your attention and I also thank the Members who have presented these motions and have allowed us to do a joint job together in order to arrive at a shared solution on a subject that we have already dealt with over and over again over the past year and that has seen us question our national health system, especially with regard to territorial services. We have seen how important territorial medicine is and have taken note of the limitations that it has demonstrated this year, especially in some territories of our country. It is useless to deny it and we must all take care of it together. It is obvious that in some territories rather than in others there has been a great criticality of the territorial services. In the motions, even if they have been withdrawn and if it will converge on an agenda signed by all the groups here present - as already announced by the Lega Group and the Movimento 5 Stars Group - it has been well emphasized that in the last year we have been faced with an unknown disease. Medicine is not an exact science, but it is an experimental method, which every day finds itself improvising, especially when it is in front of an unknown enemy. In this year, especially doctors, nurses and health care professionals of all levels have found themselves many times improvising, in order to try to treat patients in the best possible way. The doctors of general medicine in this were pioneers, if we can and we want to say so. At first, not knowing the disease and not even knowing that they had it in front of them, they tried to put in place everything that was possible on the basis of their knowledge; at a later moment they intervened by sending patients to hospitals as quickly as possible, also because of the fear of not being able to cure the patients of Covid-19. This has meant - we all know, but memory is important - that hospitals have found themselves overloaded. And unfortunately this is a fact that we also check these days - ahinoi - because the situation has not changed much. And he also put the strong theme of having to give protocols and instructions to the basic doctors, to take care of patients and to assist them as quickly as possible and in the best possible way to the onset of the first symptoms, so as to cure people and not clog hospitals. It is essential, as the motion calls for, that the guidelines be updated constantly and continuously, so that the administration of the most effective medicines and the care of the patient can take place as quickly as possible and in the best possible way. In this is essential the figure of the doctor of general medicine, of the pediatricians and of all the specialists that at the territorial level have to deal with the people. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this is fundamental for two reasons: not only to give a ready cure to the sick, but also to support him, because the doctors of general medicine most often know the situation, even family and social, in which the sick live. We can now be very important and fundamental to take care of the sick from the psychological and social point of view, especially for this type of disease. The motion is fundamental to improve the assistance functions and to improve what has been lacking, namely tracking, because it has really been a cross and a pain in the last year to make reports for epidemiological purposes that were effective and efficient. Health surveillance is essential in our system in order to ensure health in the best possible way and also assistance - as my colleague said before - appropriate to the most fragile, who are then the ones who get sick the most. It is for this reason that we have signed the agenda and we really believe that the territories that have best dealt with the situation can be an example for other territories that still struggle with really significant critical issues. We hope that from here on our health system at the territorial level will improve, not only for this emergency, but also for all the other daily situations that will be faced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u130	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr Undersecretary, the pandemic has had serious repercussions on the health service in just over a year: over 3 and a half million cases have been reported, with more than 111,000 deaths. Even today, about 30,000 Covid patients are hospitalized and intensive therapies in many regions are above the safety threshold. In Italy, according to the latest studies, there has been an increase of 40 percent in the renunciation of treatment of non-Covid patients, with over two million less cancer screening and 13,000 less diagnosis of missing diseases. This involves not only direct damage to those who have not been able to treat themselves properly at the right time, but also indirect damage to the National Health Service in terms of costs and management. In fact, our National Health Service will have to assist our fellow citizens, non-Covid patients, who have not had access to treatment, with greater care one tomorrow, when possible, and therefore also with higher costs. We all know that treating a disease late, as well as creating more suffering for the patient, involves the use of more complex and often invasive therapies. The hospitals were overloaded with work for the Covid-19 and had to limit much access to the care of non-Covid patients, who needed hospital care. In fact, many departments have been closed to be converted into Covid departments and intensive therapies, from the limited number, have been used for the most serious Covid cases, not allowing the use for the health needs of the country related to other diseases no less serious. The motions under discussion today pursue the twofold meritorious objective of providing adequate care to the sick Covid, when the same are at their home, and avoid both hospitalization and the consequent problems of overcrowding of the health structures, which - as we have anticipated - go into suffering when the load of the sick is intensified because of the trend of the curve of the contagions. Our Group, Forza Italia, has always supported what is foreseen by the motions under discussion today in the Chamber, reaffirming always the importance of strengthening the network of doctors of general medicine and pediatricians of free choice that, thanks to the widespread presence in the territory and to the direct knowledge of their population of caregivers, are called to play a crucial role in the management of positive subjects, in close collaboration with the staff of the USA and with any assistance units present on the territory. We also take this opportunity to thank all the health workers, all the doctors and all those who care for those who are suffering every day. We feel that we share the need for the so-called "vigilous expectation" provided for in the Ministerial Circular and the AIFA Recommendations, which consists in an observation of the possible improvements or worsenings of a sick Covid in their homes, to be revisited in a more dynamic and not only static concept, as it is today interpreted, so as to allow that, thanks to medical support, cases with mild symptoms remain such and the cases that may worsen do not worsen. On the motion we also agree with the proposal to set up a ministerial monitoring table, in which all the professionalities involved in the territorial assistance routes are represented, given the increasing complexity of management and the need to harmonise and systematize all the actions in the field. We also share the need to define, through AIFA, protocols and guidelines for the home loading of Covid patients and the opportunity to resort to preventive administration to patients paucisintomatics with positive buffer of antiviral therapies and prevention of pulmonary complications in experimental phase and off label according to protocols already in use, i.e. as a result of the detection of evidence of national and international efficacy in the current trial. We have proposed that the vaccine should be compulsory for doctors and healthcare professionals in order to make health care places safer for patients. We have proposed the criminal shield to the vaccine workers to encourage recruitment of operators who inoculate the vaccine. We have promoted vaccination in pharmacies to make vaccination more accessible and widespread. Our goal has been and will always be to support the country and support Italians all (from the smallest to the largest, from those who do not work, to companies in crisis, from those who suffer social distress to those who are affected by a certain serious disease), with the aim of opening schools, businesses and the country as soon as possible. This morning, together with Antonio Tajani, Vice-President of the Party, Anna Maria Bernini, President of the Forza Italia Group, Senator Ferro and colleagues of the Chamber of Deputies Occhiuto and Cattaneo, we presented the proposals of Forza Italia to the so-called ristori decree to restart the country. Among these, we have proposed to introduce the possibility, through state guarantees, to give 100,000 euros to every small company with a turnover of less than one million euros to be returned in thirty years. We have proposed the deletion of the debitory folders and measures to support tourism and sport for the non-securities. They are all measures that serve, on the one hand, to get out of the pandemic first and, on the other hand, to allow those who have always worked honestly and paid the taxes to be able to resist in this difficult moment that crosses humanity, waiting for the light to come for everyone. Forza Italia is there and will always be next to the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u132	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u133	Mr President, whenever I get the opportunity, I repeat that resources are very important and now, with European funds, (not just PNRR), resources are also available for innovation and research on drug therapies of actual and proven contrast to Covid, starting from the analysis of genetic risk and its individual response to the virus, among other things the subject of a vast study of the international scientific community of which many Italian scientists are also part, but equally important are the reference rules of care and care, and this motion and the agenda (which is a natural evolution of it) are the plastic example. The appropriate and timely take-up of the patient at home, most necessary in emergency Covid, is the ground in which we are now measuring ourselves. We need to be flexible enough to grasp all the innovations that have such scientific support as to suggest that they are not only a few cases observed in apparently promising trials, but also valid numbers that can be justified as solid and rigorous responses to the disease, without the risk of giving toxicity to patients and the ultimate purpose of our motion, in line with what was then deducted on the agenda, is to commit the Government to an awareness that takes due account of them, making added value of the best clinical experiences and scientific knowledge, giving proof of efficiency and appropriateness, investing in prevention, predictive medicine, personalization of treatments, rigorous, substantial and targeted checks in continuous updating and monitoring. We are among those who intend to redesign Italy with a vision, the vision of sustainable health of the future, [[Applause]] of universalist protection of the person and the family, even before or in any case at the onset of the disease, aware that the resources of the PNRR, as one shot and therefore unrepeatable, must be used only for improvement processes that allow immediately to give more costing less, implementing true integration between hospital network and territory, with technologically assisted domiciliarizzazione of the cures from remote, according to national protocols defined in progress, updated, accessible and verified with narrow prospective studies, that act as guide based on both the clinical picture of the patient and the phase of the infection. I shall conclude, Mr President, by thanking you for your helpfulness and understanding. The government of the pandemic is prevention and early care, limiting hospitalization to only proactively eligible cases: the zeroing of the avoidable overload of hospitals and intensive therapies with a mass immunization of fragile categories is a precondition for the return to normality, a possible challenge to which this majority can respond to the service of the country, acting in strengthening and capillarinization of the active and genomic surveillance of the virus and its variants, in selective vaccination prophylaxis and home care updated promptly and evolutionaryly due to scientific evidence, without taking care of any ideology. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u134	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u135	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the motions we are debating today address the fundamental issue of home care, specifically their necessary enhancement in relation to the health treatment of patients with Covid-19. Both are very welcome, because they touch on a subject to which this legislature has been strongly committed for years and even before the tragic advent of the pandemic by Covid-19. Home care, in fact, and more generally the issue of territorial assistance are the aspects that demonstrated and still demonstrate the major health deficiencies of the National Health Service and the direct consequence of these deficiencies is historically represented by the clogging of our hospitals, with an intolerable decrease found in the quality of the service offered to patients, especially those fragile and in need of adequate care. I cite, by way of example, also for my direct professional experience, the overload of the first aid throughout Italy: in fact, too many times, in my thirty-year experience as first aid doctor, I witnessed the arrival of patients who did not need hospitalization, but that in the absence of proper local assistance they arrived in hospital convinced that the hospital could be the best solution for their state of health. On the contrary, the clogging of hospitals has unfortunately caused a real risk to the patient, obviously in health, also for possible nosocomial infections, but also at psychological level, because a hospitalization represents a clear stress with direct negative consequences. Home care, on the other hand, where assessed as appropriate by the treating physician, together with the fundamental help of telemedicine, can certainly contribute to a positive course of the patient, eliminating the use of hospitalization and contributing to the overall well-being of the person involved and any family members. The challenge we have faced in this legislature was, therefore, to intervene in these chronic ills of our National Health Service, evidently the result of a perverse logic centered on the inevitable hospitalization, even when the patient's medical records did not fully motivate this choice, which should also be the last health solution. Very important measures have already been adopted: I think, first of all, to the figure of the family nurse, with the so-called decree relaunch, true turning point for territorial medicine, in a positive logic of synergy with all other levels of health care. With the same measure important funding has been provided for the recruitment of thousands of nurses; now it is up to the Regions to take quickly any necessary measures to equip the local health services with the necessary staff. Speaking of family nurses, I would like to highlight the opportunity to arrive at their definitive recognition through the approval of the relevant bill. Moreover, I think it is useful here to mention also the reform of the territorial health emergency system 118, which aims at its improvement through a unified and coordinated management vision. In particular, the staff, distinct from the hospital staff - to both of us express our heartfelt thanks for the tireless commitment during the pandemic - will have to be permanently dedicated to the territorial emergency service, with a permanent working relationship. The nurses of the territorial emergency service 118 will be recruited through public insolvency procedures and will have to have vocational training in the emergency area. For the mobile means of rescue of the territorial emergency service, 118 will have to make use of personnel adequately trained with theoretical-practical courses for the functions of driver and rescuer, another very important figure towards which I highlight once again the opportunity to finally reach a necessary legal recognition. All these elements, which I have briefly pointed out here, make clear the concrete institutional work that is taking place in the field of territorial assistance and home care. The motions before us today go fully in this direction. I strongly support them with a view to the overall improvement of our National Health Service, to which we will continue to commit ourselves with the adoption of other fundamental measures. We too are of the idea of reaching a joint agenda and signed by all the Groups. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u136	The debate is closed. I note that the motions have been withdrawn and the agenda G1, signed by Senator Ciampolillo, and the agenda G2, signed by Senators Romeo, Castellone, Binetti, Errani, Boldrini, Zaffini, Parente and other Senators. Colleagues, I have to suspend the sitting briefly, because I was not aware of the G1 agenda and I want to verify its admissibility. (The sitting was suspended at 18.58 and resumed at 19.10 p.m.) Colleagues, I'm gonna suspend the session for another ten minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 19.10 a.m. and resumed at 19.33 p.m.) I would like to say that, with regard to the G1 agenda, Senator Ciampolillo's signature, the commitment referred to in item 2 is not acceptable. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda. [[Senator Ciampolillo points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Ciampolillo, let undersecretary Sileri speak first, who will give his opinion on the agenda. [[Senator Ciampolillo's comments.]] Senator Ciampolillo, if you allow the Undersecretary to give its opinion on the agenda, your speech will also be more supported by the Undersecretary's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u137	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the motions and agendas you have presented, because they give me the opportunity to clarify and reiterate what has been done and what needs to be done for the home therapies of patients with SARS-Cov-2. I'll try to be very brief. SARS-Cov-2 infection is an extremely complex condition. We started to get to know her in December 2019 and we learned better about the virus during the first wave, unfortunately during the second and now that we are experiencing the third. There are very complex physiopathogenetic mechanisms related to the multiplicity of clinical manifestations and the role played by the particular immune response of individual subjects. The therapies have evolved over time and to date are not completely clear. There are many protocols still in place; I am not just talking about Italy, but about the whole planet. We have accumulated information about the pathogenesis of the morbid condition and the symptoms presented by patients; we have learned, especially in the early stages, that there were symptoms that were initially underestimated and then more known. Knowledge of efficacy and toxicity related to different therapies has gradually been acquired. In particular, the therapeutic treatment of the pathology has been structured on different approaches, which have gone to involve primarily drugs with potential antiviral activity against SARS-Cov-2, drugs with prophylactic and therapeutic activity against thrombotic manifestations, drugs able to modulate the immune response and plasma infusions aimed at a transfer of neutralising antibodies the link between the new coronavirus and its receptor expressed by human cells. It should be stressed that there are still wide margins of uncertainty regarding the effectiveness of some of the therapeutic approaches mentioned above and that the use of different therapies rather than the absence of use of these therapies depend on the severity of clinical manifestations presented by patients. Precisely in view of the high level of uncertainty with which these therapies are made available and of the particular state of emergency compared to a pandemic that we are actually learning to know - as I said before - day by day, it is important to continuously update the information related to the tests of effectiveness and safety that become progressively more available. To this end, the technical and scientific commission of the AIFA has prepared a series of cards that make explicit the therapeutic guidelines within which it is possible to foresee a controlled and safe use of the drugs used in the context of this serious emergency. The cards clearly show the efficacy and safety tests available to date, as well as the recommended interactions and methods of use in patients with Covid-19. In the same format are identified the drugs for which it is good that the use remains within controlled clinical trials. On 30 November 2020, the circular of the Ministry of Health No 24970 on the home management of SARS-Cov-2 patients was adopted in order to provide adequate operational guidance, taking into account the current evolution of the epidemiological situation in the national territory. This circular points to the need to rationalise resources in order to ensure the right assistance to each individual citizen in a manner commensurate with the degree and severity of the clinical picture. The circular states, among other things, that the US National Institutes of Health have formulated a classification based also on radiological criteria and with the limits and difficulties involved in carrying out this investigation in a pandemic situation in which five clinical stages of the disease are identified. In the section "Principles of drug therapy management" it is specified that the indications given refer to the pharmacological management in the home of the mild cases of Covid-19. In addition, it is stressed that, in order to avoid the risk of late hospitalisation, in the event of worsening of the clinical condition of the patient during the home monitoring phase, a rapid and timely general re-evaluation will have to be carried out to verify the need for hospitalization or a specialist evaluation of the subject. In the same circular a schematic representation of the monitoring of the subject infected with SARS-Cov-2 and the dynamic possibility of transition from a low-risk patient to a patient with a worsening picture, such as to require a change in therapy or hospitalization, was also outlined. The recommendations provided by the Circular reflect the data of scientific literature and all current information. symptomatic treatments, such as paracetamol or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may be used in cases of fever or joint or muscle pain, unless there is a clear contra-indication to use. Other symptomatic medicines may be used according to clinical judgement. There is no solid and incontrovertible evidence to date, i.e. derived from controlled clinical trials, of efficacy and safety for the use of other therapies in the early stages of the disease in question. An example in all may be the indication not to use corticosteroids routinally. This recommendation is based on the fact that there is currently evidence of a clinical benefit of these drugs only in this setting of patients/stage of disease. It should be remembered that in many subjects with chronic diseases the use of cortisone may result in important adverse events that may complicate the course of viral disease. They have been made available for anti-Covid-19 therapies, with the decree of the Ministry of Health of 6 February 2021, "Authorization to the temporary distribution of monoclonal antibody medicinal products for the treatment of Covid-19.', pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree No 219 of 24 April 2006, monoclonal antibodies. In accordance with the specific authorisation requirements of AIFA, the selection of the patient to be treated with such monoclonal antibodies is entrusted to physicians of general medicine, free choice paediatricians, USCA doctors and in general to physicians who have the opportunity to come into contact with patients with recently emerging Covid-19 and with mild and moderate symptoms and to address them quickly to the structure at which treatment should be performed. Treatment is recommended within a hospital structure or in any case in a context that allows prompt and appropriate management of any serious adverse reactions, according to the routes identified and implemented at regional level. The prescription of treatment should ensure that the product is administered as early as possible in relation to the onset of symptoms and no later than 10 days after the onset of symptoms. Monoclonal anti-SARS-Cov-2 antibody therapy should be reserved, based on evidence from the currently available scientific literature, for patients with newly emerging Covid-19 with SARS-Cov-2-confirmed infection and defined as at high risk of developing serious forms, in accordance with the authorisation measures of AIFA. Having said that, moving on to recent initiatives already underway, I would like to say the following: a specific working group has recently been set up at the Ministry of Health, composed of institutional and professional representatives of the scientific world of high professionalism and competence, including AIFA, with the aim of updating the aforementioned circular of 30 November 2020. The update is being completed in the light of new knowledge acquired and experience in the pharmacological and clinical field, as well as the recent indications of AIFA on individual pharmacological treatments. However, a periodic updating of the indications is always planned. It should also be noted that the updated version of the document will be integrated with the timing of monoclonal antibody therapy, paediatric and evolutionary patient management, with the use of telemedicine tools and some specifications for the management of the elderly patient and pregnant woman. The indications in the document take account of national and international observational studies and are confirmed by the evidence emerging from systematic reviews of literature and are in line with what the scientific community suggests; they also take into account recommendations published and disclosed by the WHO. From a therapeutic point of view, the possibility of initiating patients with recent Covid-19 and mild and moderate symptoms of monoclonal antibody therapy is underlined. In addition, the indications contained in the document take account of national and international observational studies and are confirmed by the evidence resulting from systematic reviews of scientific literature and are in line with what is suggested by the scientific community; finally, they take into account the recommendations published and always disclosed by the World Health Organisation. Finally, with specific reference to the appeal relating to the AIFA note of 9 December 2020, laying down the principles for the management of the cases of Covid-19 in the domestic setting, cited in the premises of the motion, I confirm that the TAR of Lazio, Section 3rd, by an order made in the Chamber of Council on 2 March last (No. 1412 of 2021), accepted the precautionary request and, by effect, suspended the effectiveness of the request, fixing the treatment in substance on 20 July 2021. Given that the above order was notified on 8 March last to AIFA, the Agency promptly requested the General Appeal to appeal to the Council of State. I shall now turn to the opinions. The opinion was opposed to the G1 agenda, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo. [[Applause]] As regards the G2 agenda, the opinion was in favour, provided that the following amendments were accepted. As regards commitment No 1, the following is proposed after the word "update": It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, making use of the Higher Institute of Health, AIFA and AGENAS as appropriate. Consequently, it is proposed to delete the words "by means". The opinion is in favour of commitment No 2 and commitment No 3, provided that the following words are added at the end: The opinion was favourable with regard to commitments no. 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u138	Are the proposals for changes to the G2 agenda made by the Government accepted? CASTELLONE (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u141	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to know the reason why the second item on my agenda was declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u142	Senator Ciampollo, the declaration of inadmissibility is unappellable. It was decided by the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u145	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Government's opinion against the remaining part of the agenda presented by Senator Ciampolillo does not make it necessary to intervene. As the premise contained statements related to point 2, which had been declared inadmissible, I wondered what the assessment was. The premises, once voted, are also part of the acts. The opinion was also negative on the amended text, without point 2, which was declared inadmissible. The negative opinion expressed by the Undersecretary clarifies the matter and I hope the House will vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u148	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, in view of the time, I propose that we postpone the follow-up to tomorrow's day.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u149	Since there is no opposition, explanations of vote and the final vote will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u152	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to understand whether the agenda presented by Senator Ciampolillo can be presented today or tomorrow, because I am not clear about the content.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u153	Senator La Mura, there will be explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u156	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the agenda is being drawn up in the course of the debate. If he didn't, I'm sorry about Senator Ciampolillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u157	Senator Calderoli, I said that there will be only an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u158	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 15 April. Tomorrow, in view of the decision taken by the Assembly, explanations of vote and the final vote on the motions discussed today will take place and the motion tabled by Senator Mantovani and other senators on strengthening the teaching of mathematics and digital education will be discussed. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place, with the presence of the Ministers for Economic Development and the ecological transition. Next week the Assembly will meet from Tuesday 13 April, at 16.30, for the discussion of motions: four signed by senators belonging to the majority and two signed by senators belonging to the opposition. Reports of subjects will have to be sent to the Presidency by the end of tomorrow's sitting. Related motions by subject, already filed, must be indicated by 5 p.m. on Monday 12 April. The allocation of the speaking time for each topic subject to motions shall include: five minutes for illustration and, for each group, five minutes for general discussion and ten minutes for explanations of vote. Tendentially, the discussion of motions will be distributed as follows: two motions Tuesday afternoon; two Wednesday mornings and two Wednesday afternoons. If there is not enough time, Thursday morning may be continued. Otherwise, the morning of Thursday 15 April will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. In any case, the Commissions involved in the examination of the decrees-laws pending in the Senate are authorized to convene during the discussion of motions for which no votes are foreseen. Thursday, April 15, at 15, the question time will take place, with the presence of the Ministers of the Interior, of the job and for the public administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u159	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 15 April: [[Thursday 8 April h. 9.30 a.m. - Motions on the strengthening of home care for patients with Covid-19 - Motion no. 160, Mantovani and others, on the strengthening of the teaching of mathematics and digital education - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (15 hours)]] [[Tuesday 13 April h. 16,30 - Motions to be defined Wednesday 14 " h. 9,30 Thursday 15 " h. 9,30 Thursday 15 April h. 15 - Questions immediately answered, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u162	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask the answer to a question, the Senate Act 4-02588, concerning the Municipality of San Giorgio a Cremano, in which we asked the Ministry of the Interior to take action to monitor the administrative management of this local authority. I would also like to point out, Mr President, a fact which I consider to be regrettable: the Province of Salerno is looking for free restorers. You pay for the job. That of the public notices and notices containing proposals for work in the cultural field to be carried out free of charge represents an Italian phenomenon that we have known for a long time, damaging the rights of workers and of the whole world of culture, but this time the Province of Salerno beats them all: with an exploratory notice, published on March 26 and addressed to the restorers, with which to realize one or more projects of restoration of works of art owned by the Province of Salerno, not only ask for a commitment free of charge, but we go even further, because in that notice we can read at the same time that the project proposals and the realization of the interventions must not involve burdens for the agency and therefore will be realized at the care and expense of the restorer. Unbelievable, but true. This incident, Mr President, is the confirmation of a necessary and urgent rule on the fair compensation of self-employed workers, in fact Article 36 of our Constitutional Charter also states that the worker is entitled to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of his work. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the social and economic value of the liberal professions is fully recognised and that wages which are not properly adjusted to the quality and quantity of the services required cannot be provided. It is therefore necessary to ensure the principle of fair compensation for the benefits rendered by professionals in performance of tasks contracted with the public administration. In this connection, Mr President, I would also like to stress that there is a draft law which could solve this problem, which is the Senate Act 1955 which I signed first. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u165	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, for three years now we have been talking here about a subject that I think everyone knows about: the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio. The answers that do not reach these citizens are inadmissible, they do not honour the work of this House. On 24 and 25 June 2007 they voted to move from the Marches to Emilia Romagna, fourteen years have passed and no answers have yet arrived, nothing has changed. In fact, mayors, regional presidents, governments and ministers have changed, but nothing has changed for these citizens. Above all, it is unacceptable that no response has come. Since September 18, 2019 the bill bearing this shift is in question. It concerns 2,421 inhabitants who are experiencing a very serious difficulty with regard to schools and the health system; their administrators have difficulties in dealing with regional and European bans; above all, there is a huge lack of confidence in the institutions on the part of these citizens. Let us remember that sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. Those citizens have exercised it; we respect their will, we calendar this bill and we conclude its process. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u168	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to remind you of a dramatic event which happened 30 years ago in Padua, when two state police officers lost their lives in a firefight. During a robbery at the restaurant "Le Padovanelle" in Padua a steering wheel intervened, two police officers, Giordano Coffen and Giovanni Borraccino, came down, and in the conflict on fire unfortunately were killed by bandits armed with a gun pump. Assistant Borraccino also responded to the fire, but was immediately cold. He left his wife and two children, while auxiliary agent Coffen left his parents. Thirty years have passed since this affair and in these days I wanted to remember it within this institution because they were servants of the State. When in a steering wheel there is a call on the radio, you feel that the car accelerates and leads you to do your job, you hear the sirens; you start thinking where the gun is and you come up with that thing that is very well reported in the song titled "Mr. Lieutenant" by Giorgio Faletti, when he says that we have to deal with the courage of fear. Those agents were an example and they are people I have also been lucky enough to meet, and that is why I would like to recall in this House the dramatic event that thirty years ago took away from us two servants of the State. I conclude with this sentence: I, when I see a man or a woman in uniform, do not frighten me, but I feel sure. Thank you Giordano and thank you John. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u171	MANGIALAVORI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I take the floor to join in the cry of alarm and sorrow that in recent days and weeks from every part of Italy comes from traders, entrepreneurs, small artisans, VAT consignments and production categories, that part of the society that has paid more than others the price of the closures arranged by the governments that have succeeded in this very long year of pandemic. The street protests of the last few hours are nothing more than a spy of a deep social malaise, which cannot be underestimated or even implied. The violence and the most muscular demonstrations must be strongly condemned, but it is certain that this Government must acknowledge that our country is now exhausted and needs to know when its sacrifices will finally be able to end and when it will be possible to return at least to a semblance of normality. The government, therefore, already in the next few days and on the basis of epidemiological data must begin to plan the reopening of economic activities. For this reason it is necessary to revise as soon as possible the decree-law that has placed the last closures and allow the activities of the areas less exposed to the contagion to resume its sacrosanct work. This is the first step towards a gradual restart, which must be completed as soon as possible. In this sense, the indiscretions that the Government, as of April 20, could consider reopening bars, restaurants, gyms, beauty centers, shops and other similar activities are comforting. At the same time, however, more needs to be done about support for businesses. The refreshments prepared so far are just a drop in that fire of discomfort in which all economic operators debate. Social despair is mounting more and more, and Parliament and the Government cannot ignore anything. Italy must leave as soon as possible and it must be put in a position to do so. It is now clear that we are all at another stage after a year of lockdown and, while protecting public health, the priority now is to prevent a new epidemic, the economic one. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u172	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-312.ana.u173	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, April 8, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
