ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr GINETTI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u6	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business to ask you a question and I would ask you to allow me to contextualise it with five concise comments. The request refers to the episode on which Mr Paragon told the Assembly yesterday, namely that they have been removed from the YouTube channel of ByoBlu, a registered newspaper, all the contents accumulated in the last ten years. I make four very brief comments before the request. First of all, it is a decision that damages the company in particular; Google is not a monopolist in cloud services and it's quite surprising that it wants its customers to know that the data is not safe and waking up tomorrow morning might not find them. I make a very quick personal recording, and I apologize for that. It is thanks to Google that I am here, because Google has hosted that blog that, giving me visibility in the debate, allowed me the honor to be your colleague. It is therefore very strange this decision and, as a satisfied user of Google, tomorrow I will look for alternatives on the market. Another theme that I put to all of you is: where do the data go when something like this happens? A video also contains reactions and comments from users, which could be stored and used for political profiling purposes. I am going to question the guaranteeing authority. A third quick point: let's remember that "Eppur moves," in his time, four centuries ago, was a fake news. Ten years ago, austerity hurts, it was a fake news, but only on ByoBlu those who wanted to argue it could find space and the country should be grateful to those who allowed us to anticipate the times of the debate, saying ten years earlier what the President of the Council of Ministers reminds us today. [[Applause]] I would therefore like to make one last remark before the request, which is a source of pride for all of us: from 24 March the web tax is finally operational. This means that Italy has succeeded in imposing a rule of civilisation on web giants, where Europe is still lagging behind and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) very late. We can therefore have a dialogue at national level; let us take advantage of it for a collection of civilizations not only in terms of taxation but also in terms of fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression. I come to the request, thanking you for the time you gave me. We are a branch of Parliament sensitive to these issues, led by a sensitive and enlightened jurist like you; I ask you to be able to incardinate a debate on them that possibly reaches a resolution or in any case an act of government direction in this area, also favouring the iter of a bill on this matter that should have, as I will verify with my colleague Moles, the request to subtract and screen the newspapers recorded on the web by the mechanism of the reports, which are the mechanism used by the digital squads of the organized haters to have the contents removed from them unwelcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u7	Senator Bagnai, thank you for putting such an important issue to the attention of this House that I will turn to the next Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2133. The rapporteur, Senator Urraro, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u9	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you for your work in the Commission and for the efforts of all the parliamentary groups and the Government, represented by Mr Sisto, at a very difficult and particular time. In fact, we are talking about the right to exercise the legal profession of defenders of citizens' rights, but even before the guardians of citizens' rights, who are now compressed and sometimes even compromised. This is in fact an extraordinary moment, something we would never have thought of having to elaborate for this noble profession, among other things the only constitutionally guaranteed. For the first time since the post-war period, the pandemic prevented the performance of the written evidence of the bar exam, which had already been postponed to 13, 14 and 15 April 2021. Unfortunately, in the face of a spread of the virus infection, which despite the start of the vaccination campaign and the implementation of the vaccine does not yet mention to diminish, the reasons that had led, in the autumn last, to arrange the postponement of the written test still remain. In particular, the forecasts that can be made on the basis of the available health records strongly advise against the carrying out of the written tests on the dates identified, given the inevitability, in particular in the metropolitan locations, of assemblies, for the exorbitant number of candidates, for a very long time, such as the one currently provided for the writing of the written papers. In particular, the carrying out of the written tests, which are held simultaneously in the three days, in the various districts of the national territory, in some cases bring together thousands of candidates: I think of the over 4,000 in my district of Corte d'appello, that of Naples, the 3,000 in Milan or the 3,000 in the district of Rome. This is not reasonably possible, for a number of reasons. The current legislation allows us to bring together no more than 30 people in a single location and therefore either we use places where candidates can be divided into classes of 30 or we should find logistical solutions, which do not always seem feasible. The commitment of the control staff would be considerable, given the plurality of the premises. The risk associated with contagion is high, as are the logistical and organizational difficulties: we only think about queues in the influx, queues in the toilets, the control activities and visa of the codes, the need to make swabs, the prohibition to consume food, considering that written tests last seven hours, the presence of women with the need to care for their children and breastfeeding, candidates with previous pathologies and particularly exposed to the risk of Coronavirus contagion. Among other things, the Ministry of Justice requested an opinion on the possibility of carrying out the technical-scientific Committee, which was installed at the Civil Protection Department of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, and the Committee itself replied that it is not possible, in the state, to carry out the written tests of the examination of qualification for this session, in view of the epidemiological progress, taking into account the modalities of carrying out the tests and the criticalities represented, related to the difficulties of ensuring compliance with the provisions contained in the protocol for the conduct of public competitions, adopted by the Department of Public Function of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2021. A further postponement would mean that it would be impossible to complete the corrections of the written tests and to carry out the subsequent oral tests in time for the next 2021 session. Decree-Law No 31 of 2021, the draft conversion law of which was assigned to the 2nd Commission Justice, therefore moves from the extraordinary necessity and urgency to adopt provisions that make possible, in this and only in this current emergency context, due to the recrudescences of the pandemic from Covid-19, the conduct of tests of the 2020 session of the examination of forensic qualification. Let's remember that these evidences were already to be held last December; an examination that - it is worth pointing out - according to the estimates of the Ministry concerns about 26,000 aspiring lawyers. For the 2020 examination session, in accordance with Article 1, a framework for the conduct of the derogation tests was introduced which was quite extraordinary compared to the one envisaged under the scheme. Article 2 excludes the possibility of carrying out written tests for the examination of qualifications in the forensic profession this year. The candidates are therefore called upon to take two oral tests. The first oral exam replaces the traditional three writings, it is public and concerns the discussion of a practical-application issue, where the candidate is called to provide the solution of a case that requires mastery of law, both substantive and procedural, in a matter previously chosen by the same candidate between matters governed by the civil code, matters regulated by the penal code or administrative law. Each candidate must express the option for the chosen subject by means of communication to be transmitted in accordance with the procedures to be established by a subsequent decree of the Minister of Justice, provided for within thirty days of the publication of the decree-law. A second part is devoted to the oral discussion, concluded by which the commission withdraws to the Chamber of Council to communicate the outcome of the trial to the candidate. The second oral test shall be open to candidates who obtained a score of at least 18 points in the first test. Each component of the sub-committee has 10 main points available. Also the second oral test is public and must last between forty-five and sixty minutes for each candidate, taking place at least thirty days after the first oral test. During the second oral exam the candidate is asked to discuss about short issues relating to five subjects selected in advance. The same candidate must demonstrate the knowledge of the legal order and the rights and duties of the lawyer. For the evaluation of the second oral test, each Commissioner shall have 10 points of merit for each of the five subjects, such as the subject of ethics and order. Candidates who obtain in the second oral test a total score of not less than 108 points and a score of not less than 18 points in at least five subjects shall be eligible. The text regulates the composition of the sub-committees of examination: to enable oral tests to be carried out as soon as possible, the number of sub-committees of examination is increased, reduced numerically from five to three components. The forecast was in fact five members and five alternates, while it will be at the present time of three members and three alternates. The president must be an attorney; he can be a member of the examination committees for the first time university researchers and military magistrates. The duties of secretary of each sub-committee may be exercised by administrative staff employed by any public administration, provided that they hold a professional qualification for which at least three years' degree is required. The work of the sub-committees shall be governed by Article 4, which shall include, inter alia, the mandatory presence of the candidate and the secretary at the examination site, which may be identified in one of the judicial offices of the Court of Appeal, on the premises of the councils of the bar order. For the first oral exam there is the mandatory remote connection of the commission. In the case of the second oral exam, however, the way in which the committee participates remotely is optional. Article 5 of the text provides for the verbalisation of the examination and there is also recognition of the remuneration of the members and the secretary of the sub-committees, recognizing them as a token of presence, which is added to the fixed and variable compensation already received under existing legislation. That is why there is also financial cover, as is shown in the final part of the text. In the Commission, we considered, albeit with a very limited timing, that we should carry out a significant examination, in a fruitful intercourse between all the parliamentary groups, following closely and interlocating with the auditors, the institutional representatives of the lawyer and the associative representatives. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments and, in agreement with the representatives of the groups, there has been a favourable speech on some of them. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u10	Senator Urraro, you can hand over your work so that it can be annexed to today's report. She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the emerging situation in which we have been forced to live for more than a year has imposed on all of us a remodulation of our everyday life, a constant struggle with which each of us in our little one is forced to confront. There have been many interventions that policy has had to take in order to cope with and overcome this difficult period. Of course, the suspension of the qualifying examination for the legal profession, 2020 session, has been detrimental to all young practitioners. The measure under discussion today stems therefore from the need not to dissipate the enormous efforts of about 26,000 aspiring lawyers who, after a long course of study and having concluded in most cases a period of practice with a spirit of sacrifice and self-denial, continued their preparation in order to realize their dream. In the meantime, the transitional rules, which provide for a rapid and simplified procedure for carrying out the examination, have provided for the possibility of carrying out the examination in a short time. On the other hand, it is also increasingly important to amend the existing legislation of the bar exam (Law 247 of 2012) in which, alongside a compulsory attendance of training courses, different and alternative measures could be envisaged, so as not to prejudice the effective exercise of the practice. This bill can be the first step towards changing existing legislation on the examination of lawyers, which is becoming increasingly urgent. At the request of the Ministry of Justice, the Scientific and Technical Committee expressed an unfavourable opinion on the possibility of carrying out written tests in accordance with the ordinary procedures, because of the high risk of infection to which the candidates would be subjected. In view of the impossibility of a further postponement of the examination, which would lead to an overlap with the 2021 lawyer examination, it was decided to provide only for the 2020 session a further test to replace the ordinary written test. This evidence, leading to the second, will have as its object the examination and discussion of a practical-application question in the form of the solution of a case in a matter chosen by the candidate between matters governed by the civil code, the penal code or administrative law. It will necessarily be done in remote connection mode. Specifically, the candidate will be present at the examination center: the judicial offices of the Court of Appeal or the premises of the councils of the lawyers' order. With him will be the secretary, who may belong to any public administration, provided he has a degree. The second test will last no less than forty-five minutes and no more than sixty minutes for each candidate, and will be carried out no less than thirty days from the first. On the other hand, it will take place before the sub-committee set up at the candidate's place of residence, and the optional remote link is established. These are tools and methods that will help prevent the risk of infection, to protect the supreme good of health. This measure has been taken to respond to this difficult moment, with the hope that this period will remain only a memory. We cannot allow the difficulties to overcome us, but rather we must ensure that these difficulties can represent an opportunity for change aimed at improving our country and our justice, a justice that provides more resources to staff, technological innovation, digitization, and that can be efficient and fast, protecting the guarantees of the accused. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr Sisto, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to adopt a measure which is born at a very particular moment of emergency. We are basically in a war period against an invisible enemy, in which even young practitioners are moving forward - we must say it with great seriousness and also with great truth - the law firms, providing a great contribution to the operation of the same forensic activity. We are therefore discussing a measure which, in my view, is the only one that we can approve at this particular stage. Of course, there is no more written examination, with the famous seven hours in which it was applied in writing, making a very special mnemonic effort. There is, however, this double test, the first selective one, which enables the committee to understand whether the practitioner is really able to deal with the profession. Once, when I also gave this exam, many years ago as many who will intervene after or have intervened before me, the selection had already occurred at the university. I still remember the first day when in the magna classroom, in an almost surreal atmosphere for a boy coming from schools, I found myself with all the professors deployed, then there were 630, and one professor said to look around us because only one in four of us would succeed in graduating. He was wrong by default, because actually out of 630 we graduated in 100. Then there was a further selection, because in some districts of the Court of Appeal passed the exam to become legal attorney, as was said then, a role in which six years had to pass, even 3 percent or 10 percent of the candidates. So there were those who tried to go elsewhere to face this examination. We also had other moments, which perhaps someone remembers for the memory that it was transmitted: I mean those during the war, when we returned from the front, they gave themselves the exams and the thing that was done a little 'rocambolescolamente was put the revolver - they are true episodes - on the chair, took the famous vote and took him home. Today, however, we are faced with a different test, in which we must select 26,000 young people. We all know the apprehension, the difficulties; above all we understand that it is not only that of the practitioner, but sometimes it is above all that of the family, of a mother and of a father or of the girlfriend who wait. There are destinies and lives that change from day to night depending on whether you can become a lawyer or not. Therefore, with great delicacy, at this particular moment in which Italy has experienced a truly dramatic situation, in my opinion we must also look with a benevolent eye, with that of the good father of the family, to this very particular situation and try to understand that at the bottom we have guys who have overcome so many selections. I would also like to add that this examination, in its first phase, is very special, because it puts the candidate in front of a tight time and the time factor is of crucial importance, as is often the case in life. It is one hour, of which thirty minutes for the preliminary examination of the question, during which the candidate can consult the codes, followed by the oral examination to which this first selection allows to pass. I think it is really appropriate, indeed, I would say almost natural to the profession, so let's be careful because precisely this type of experience could become a point of reference also for the new examination, when the situation will be considered normal. I think it is important to approve this measure, since it has already been organized, in order to finally give young practitioners the opportunity to face this difficult but crucial moment for the lives of each of them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u14	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u15	Mr President, Piero Calamandrei said that lawyers are neither circus jugglers nor salon lecturers. Justice is a serious matter. Always the great jurist used to say: What does "great lawyer" mean? It means a lawyer useful to judges to help them decide according to justice, useful to the client to help him assert his reasons. What I honor to belong to is a noble profession, a profession that has its roots - I would say - in the primaries of humanity, since anyone who was under attack or anyone who wanted to assert his rights felt the need to have a prepared person close to him, capable of supporting him: advocatus, called beside him. It is not a mystery that in recent times there are strong attempts to diminish the dignity of this noble profession to which Marco Tullio Cicero belonged; a profession that has given all over the world political representatives, statesmen, people who have been able to carry on human rights. A well-known person - no one knows how to be a lawyer, for example - was Mahatma Gandhi. Today we are faced with a regulatory change - which we hope will all be temporary and temporary, and so it will remain - which has seen the faculties of the lawyer compressed in an exasperated way. In recent months the emergency has also greatly compressed the dignity of the exercise of the forensic profession. I am thinking of remote hearings, paperwork processes, the humiliation of virtual discussions as the humiliation of participating in hearings in which you can be silenced with a simple click on the computer. We hope that all this will soon be overcome, that it will be cancelled and that we can return to the normality of the exercise of a profession that must be able to maintain its precious dignity. Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing changes to the skill test to be admitted to the profession. The evidence must be serious. I am certainly not a proponent of closing down the young generations, but we cannot accept the need to ensure that the criterion for becoming part of the forensic profession is that of merit so that the most deserving can see their legitimate expectations crowned. That is why we can only accept this rule in its absolute temporaryity, because it is true that we have sought - and we acknowledge the Ministry and the Government - to guarantee the criteria of selectivity, but it is also true that, as it is, we are certainly not at the guaranteed levels, by examination in its ordinary form. The lawyer must know how to write and today, with the forecast of this method of examination, we lose any possibility of evaluation of his ability. This is a very important detail. In conclusion, it is necessary to reward the merit, ensure the seriousness of the test and pay attention to the fact that the legislation under consideration is absolutely temporary and exclusive for this year. Good luck to all those who will have to take the exam for the qualification to exercise the profession of lawyer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u16	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u17	Mr President, there is not much time at my disposal to talk about a very special moment in the case of lawyers. I must confess that I speak of it with the same emotion with which Senator Pillon intervened, because probably only those who carry out the profession can understand what it means to enter a classroom in that black dress - the toga - which is not a piece of cloth that you wear, but represents a world made of people - lawyers, in fact - who are there to defend the interests (of a criminal and civil nature) of those who put their lives in their hands. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the change in the Commission's pace, and I would like to thank Mr Sisto for his openness to the dialogue which he has expressed, despite the fact that the final text does not satisfy me very much. However, I realize that the emergency that we are experiencing requires this year to do the tests in a somewhat abnormal way. I have already pointed out what, in my opinion, are the most critical aspects of the measure. First of all, there is the replacement of the written test by an abnormal test. Senator Pillon has rightly said that the lawyer must be able to write because many acts are presented in writing and even, as a result of the reform that we are about to approve, they will have to be drafted in a very concise manner. To do this kind of work you have to know how to write, if it is true - as it is true - that someone apologized for having extended, claiming that he had little time to prepare the act. We must therefore note that the written test is replaced by an abnormal oral test. With regard to this test there are still doubts as to the existence of a homogeneity of assessment in the country. The traces of the written test were in fact the same in all the courts of appeal in which the examinations were carried out, while today the selection of the questions to be submitted to the candidates to the commission is called, moreover, on the basis of criteria that are chosen day by day. This method of evaluation leaves me very perplexed, because there could be unequal treatment in the various courts of appeal where the examinations will take place. An additional critical element is the duration of the test. Those who pursue the profession know that, despite the use of the commented codes, half an hour of time is objectively insufficient to have an accomplished result and to give certainty to the candidate that he has thoroughly examined the question that is being submitted to him. However, I realize that there is a need to conclude the procedure for examining the measure. We spoke repeatedly about the examination during this pandemic period. We have been proposed to overcome this, but this is absolutely impossible, as we cannot proceed as it has been done for doctors since the degree in law does not form for the exercise of the profession. Provision should be made for a selection to be made for admission to the profession, so that specially prepared persons take part in the examination. It was then proposed to do so in another way, providing for the passing of a first written test, but instead it was decided to organize the examination in this way. Of course, the time available is too short, so I reserve the right to return to these issues at the time of the explanation of vote. I had also tabled an amendment to make sure that the questions were chosen differently, but then it was decided otherwise: I will, however, turn the amendment into an agenda. I would also like to stress that both the National Forensic Council and the Advocate General have generally expressed great concern about the preparation of the questions, to the point that CNF himself and the bodies of the Advocate have offered to prepare them. I shall come back to this at the time of the explanation of vote, because the time is too short to examine all aspects of this measure, but I must say that we have finally moved on to this issue. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u18	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u19	Mr President, as has been said, we are here to guarantee young people access to the profession. We are talking about young people who are not only graduates, who have studied, but who have carried out forensic practice. We therefore have a duty to guarantee them access to the profession and, of course, the seriousness of the selection process. This is not the first time that we have dealt with these young people and, as a Democratic Party, we have paid particular attention to these knowledge workers. In the previous parliamentary term we reduced the period of practice from two years to eighteen months, precisely to facilitate entry into this particular world of work, which has become more difficult and with particularly heavy working and income conditions. We must ensure that an effective and actually formative practice is carried out: at the time, for example, the employment of these young people in the office for the process has been tested, and this is a modern and intelligent way of addressing the issue of the functioning of justice, the contribution of knowledge and also the contamination of experience. We also have a duty - and I believe it is linked to the subject we are dealing with - to concern ourselves, for example, with how the payment of legal aid is guaranteed, and this is first and foremost for the recipients, those who are not well off, but also because it is a form of work that affects young people in particular. We have recently fought very hard for resources to be unlocked for the payment of these fees, which we know have a historical delay. We think that even more than one-off indiscriminate contributions for professionals, in this case for lawyers, because young people are the most exposed and because it is work actually done and the burden that the State owes to these workers, much still needs to be done and that this form of intervention is preferable or at least priority. In fact, it is necessary to guarantee access to the profession, but also that it can be carried out in a dignified way, so that it is not only remembered in the crowns of laurel, which can be bound up in rhetoric. We have tabled a number of amendments to improve this text precisely in this direction, although we are measuring ourselves and trying to take account of the urgency of the measure. One issue that we want to address is the transparency of the exam to ensure not only the genuineness, but the effectiveness of the test itself, or rather to protect the outcome of this test which takes place in exceptional ways, but which will also require and requires the use of exceptional resources, with an increase in the commissions that must work. There is an exceptional effort on the part of the State and it is an effort that must be protected. So we ask that, if the candidate asks for it, the evidence can be videotaped. I would like to stress that today technology offers a number of options at no cost, so much so that each of us can now - alas, I say - record and videotape anything. I believe that we are in a position to do so and that technology can and should be used. We used it and we're using it a lot in Covid's time, so it can be done. The second question is to ensure equal treatment, in this exceptional, different and unknown form, in the timing of the opening of envelopes and questions; equal treatment for all those who face this examination. The third question concerns students who are currently abroad and cannot return to Italy because of the anti-Covid rules; we ask them to give them the opportunity to carry out these tests in the offices abroad. I should like to conclude with two brief comments. When we talk about access to the profession and the protection of preparation, when we study the ways that concern the profession of lawyer, we always and in any case talk about guaranteeing the best the right of defence, which is not an abstract principle, but is very concrete, very noble and very rooted in the history of modern liberal democracies. In modern times this right of defence must be even more guaranteed, because in a society that changes there can be the compression and alteration of fundamental rights in every field; therefore the function of the lawyer is still very important. But - be careful - we know that this profession must also be measured by modernity; the challenge that we must accept means that modernity is an opportunity and not the transformation of yet another right into something that is simply subject to the laws of the market. I think that today we can safely say that the market market is a failed ideology. The lawyer was born as a liberal profession, but he has an important social function; we are talking about access to a profession, which measures competence and preparation, we are talking about knowledge workers. Knowledge workers are very important in this changing world, which will come out different from the pandemic, which will face challenges that engage knowledge and competence and that no longer put boundaries between technology and science on the one hand and purely humanistic knowledge on the other. We know that we must now be able to mix and contaminate them; I believe that there is a social interest on the part of everyone so that the lawyer can live up to this task and be valued for the social value he has and which he has. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, a year has passed since the total lockdown that has changed our lives. An exact year has passed since my question to Mr Bonafede, in which I asked if he would consider taking urgent steps to abolish the first written test of the examination of the lawyer, proceeding directly to the second oral test. The date of the question is 16 April 2020. I was the first to launch the alarm cry that came from 26,000 practitioners, who asked for attention and to be able to carry out the examination of professional qualifications in different ways, since the pandemic posed obstacles. For this reason, I have used all the instruments that parliamentary regulations allowed me to urge the former Government, in particular the then Minister of Justice, Mr Bonafede, to come to Parliament to explain why 26,000 aspiring lawyers should be suspended in a timeless limbo, waiting for the outbreak from Covid-19 to subside, so as to allow an anachronistic "three days" of written evidence. Minister Cartabia, through Secretary Sisto, has the merit of having been timely. Having obviously addressed the problem, it was immediately realized that an examination involving a large number of candidates could not be carried out with established practices, not in Covid-19's time: no, it would not have been possible. Therefore, I congratulate you and offer you the thanks of those with whom I have had the opportunity to interact during this long and difficult year, spent waiting, without having ever received concrete answers. I cannot fail to point out, kindly Minister, a lack of sensitivity and timing on the part of those who preceded you in office. An old saying reads: there is no more deaf than those who do not want to hear; and despite the voices, those from inside and those from outside, it has continued to insist on the written exam, which should have seen thousands of practitioners housed in large halls, for eight consecutive hours, obviously with great risk of infection. Thank you, therefore, once again to the Minister, who has averted this risk. We're all very grateful to you. I have personally, as I said, tabled a parliamentary question to Mr Bonafede to urge him on the emergency that total indecision on the point had caused. I have tried to raise awareness of the previous Government in order to adopt a solution that would recognize lawyers, as it had been for every other professional category, the right to be able to be qualified through an oral examination, alternative to writing, but equally serious and selective. In this last year, I have had the opportunity to listen to the needs and demands of the practitioners, all characterized by common sense. I became aware of their expectations and therefore hoped that solutions would be found to put an end to their concerns. They represent the future of our country and for far too long have been left at the mercy of an uncertain destiny. Today, finally, the time has come, here in Parliament, to pay attention and assume our responsibilities to give a well-deserved and worthy future to some 26,000 young aspiring lawyers. It pains me, though, to say that something more could probably be done. I have tabled more than one amendment, but one was going in that direction. The request to carry out both tests before a single subcommittee would have allowed an acceleration in time and less organizational expenditure. We would have avoided wasting more precious time, because we all know that the oral exam is a public test, in which the identity of the candidate can certainly not be concealed. It was necessary to have greater confidence in the seriousness of the work of the Commissioners responsible for carrying out this delicate task. In my opinion, it would have been reasonable to concentrate the examination before a single committee; again, it would have been better to increase the delay to 30 days from the communication to the candidate and the actual conduct of the trial. In this way, the candidate could have been allowed both to have more specific preparation and more organisation than possible work commitments. Let us not forget, in fact, that lawyers, in order to live, must also work. I also find it unfair that a practitioner who is examined on a matter during the first test should still be tested on it in the second oral test and, at the same time, obliged to carry another substantive matter. If a practitioner has carried out a legal practice only in civil matters and has done the first oral test in civil law, why should it be examined, during the second trial, both on civil law and on criminal law? It is a paradox, which would have deserved more attention and greater adherence to reality. I turn to Senator Urraro, with whom I have had the opportunity to interface and whom I thank for his great willingness: it will have been the times, of course, and I hope that we can do better in the future. It would have been more correct to ensure consistency and valorisation of the specialist course of practice carried out by each candidate; it would have been better to remove this absurd constraint. However, there is perhaps an even more serious fact regarding the examination, just as it is designed today. The present structure leaves too much room for discretion to the individual sub-committees with regard to the practical questions of the first written test. The world of practitioners is deeply concerned about the discriminatory possibilities of being examined by one subcommittee rather than another. For this reason, I proposed that the Central Committee, with the help of the National Council of Forensics, prepare fifty questions for each subject subject of the first trial and that they be sent to each court of appeal and drawn by lot. In this way we would have had uniform questions throughout the national territory and, as a result, a much wider assessment meter. I hope that this will not create any difficulties. I hope, moreover, that we do not stop at this decree-law and that everything will not return as it was before the emergency Covid-19. Precisely for this reason, in the last year I have interwoven reports, collected requests and listened to the voices of practitioners: I am not new in suggesting the issue of practitioners attorneys. I also presented my own bill to reorder the process of the exam, because it is clear to everyone that the exam needs to be reformed, to give serenity in the approach to the world of work to young practitioners lawyers. It is useless that we make fun of ourselves: the examination, as it is currently structured, is absolutely not meritocrat and is not in line with what happens in other European countries and not. For example, in Spain and the United States, access to the forensic profession is provided for in much faster and more objective ways, unlike what happens in Italy, where the methods of examination are still derived from a royal decree of 1933. This leads to a situation of grave injustice and discrimination against young aspiring Italian lawyers, who in our country access the profession at a much older age than other European and non-EU colleagues, thus having less opportunity to express themselves and excel in the labour market. A reform of the state examination is now absolutely urgent, not only because these young graduates must also be applied the principle of the free movement of services in Europe (one of the four freedoms on which the common European market is based), but also because, especially in the reconstruction project of the country after the cessation of the pandemic by Covid-19, it is essential that young people can make their valuable contribution and that there is the right generational change of the ruling class. Therefore, after the adoption of today's measure, I hope that the time has come to take serious and thoughtful measures, to give a comprehensive response to the need to make the selection again effective and meritorious through the examination of the State, which is too old to carry out its tasks. Clearly I had the opportunity to argue my bill in various webinars; there was comparison with other proposals from other parties and there were criticisms, of course, as always happens. My hope is that these legislative proposals will be framed and discussed in order to arrive at a new law that is more streamlined, more practicable and more appropriate to the times. The objective I set myself in my proposal for a law was not to exclude forms of assessment defined downwards or to simplify procedures, but to adapt them to the health emergency phase that we have been going through for months. I didn't think and I don't think the quizzes, as evidence of examination, were humiliating to an aspiring lawyer, as has been claimed. The quizzes could be objective in the evaluation and not easy, considering the factors of distraction and the amount of questions possible. The practical capacity for legal argument can also emerge with the oral evidence introduced by this Decree-Law. (at 10.31 a.m.) (Lonardo followed). My opinion is that the aspiring lawyers, in order to successfully deal with the new exams, will have to study the theoretical notions, but will also have to demonstrate a solid experience acquired in the field, that is, in the courtrooms and in the drafting of the acts in the chancellories, for the fulfillments. To direct oneself to a practical case, thus enhancing the practice really carried out, must be the measure to select legal quality, up to the professional challenge. We are aware that the rewording of the exams for the exercise of the profession of forensics is however contingent to the emergency situation and that it can represent an opportunity to collect criticalities and positive aspects that could be valued by formulating, once passed the pandemic, a new exam more in step with the times, also assuming internships at the court clerks or at the law firm already during the last year of university, with tests or quiz preparatory to a final exam interview. I shall vote in favour of this measure and thank the Minister once again for his timing and dedication to the project we are voting on today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u21	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Government, when we started - let us call it this - the adventure of the new Government, we could not help but appreciate some of Mr Cartabia's choices. You will all remember in the first place that the Minister's first official visit was to the guarantor of the prisoners, with whom, in essence, he had decided to give a specific indication of those who were his feelings, already expressed in various writings and speeches. While all of us were waiting to understand what the Minister wanted to do and what kind of footprint he would give to his mandate, the second statement was devoted to the question of the examination of the qualification of young lawyers. I remember perfectly the second agency you referred to when you stated that you were thinking about young lawyers. We are in fact here today to discuss the conversion of a decree-law that, although studied taking into account the emergency, is not what all of us - especially with reference to those who are also lawyers - would have wanted, but still gives answers. I want to remind you that at another time, when the announcement of the referrals of the exam was given through Facebook, there had been numerous interventions by the children who wanted to give the exams, with positions even very clear. There were very clear statements that were made since then, and at present, responsible for the justice of Forza Italia, that I have the honour to have here now as Undersecretary, precisely because this type of problem existed and exists. I have listened to the speeches of my fellow Members and I believe that the other important general signal that gives the interpretation of the government line is the fact that we are trying in every way to start unlocking everything that is competing. For example, we are discussing today the examination of the qualification of lawyers; Minister Brunetta announced the release of competitions, also with reference to all public competitions that have been stopped by the pandemic. I want to stress this for a reason: it is true that we have a depressed Italy because the reopenings are still far away, but it is also true that the ministerial team is still working to try to return to normality and the examination of the bar or the start of the competitions have this imprint. As far as the measure in our examination is concerned, I have listened to my colleagues and I have also heard the emotion that Mr Pillon and Mr Cucca spoke about. I totally understand what it's like to have the dream of wearing a robe. The provision on our examination is not only important for those who perhaps want to be a criminal lawyer and therefore fight in the classrooms against the prosecution, or for those who love the civilian and are more brought to the writing. The qualifying title today is fundamental for anyone who wants to have access to many professions, because it is a support. Let me give you an example: many lawyers today are mediators and have created structures dedicated to this. A lot of lawyers do not actually do the profession, but maybe they do the support administrators, or they do the procedures for debt or over-indebtedness, or they work in large business studies, so maybe they don't go to the courtroom, but they study the cases. The profession has changed a lot and it certainly has a number of facets. Therefore, allowing children today to have this title, even in a complex situation such as that of the pandemic, which justifies an examination without the written part, is a sign of attention for those who want to look ahead and find certain working solutions. In conclusion, having heard Members talk about the future of this examination, I believe that we must be careful and careful, knowing how to grasp the important innovations deriving from the pandemic, but above all looking at the professionalism that must have those who face this examination in order to have a title that qualifies it on the labour market, a market that - as I said before - is extremely varied. I would like to conclude the speech by thanking the Government for the work it has carried out, the Commission that yesterday worked late to allow the Assembly to discuss the measure and the Undersecretary, because although it is not a perfect measure, but perfectible like everyone else, it marks a point that is what I told you before: the Government began to work to reopen the competitions and slowly and gradually return to normality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u23	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u24	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Urraro, for his work, who has been the bearer of all the discussions that have taken place within the Commission with the Government in order to ensure that this measure was truly decisive in an emerging situation. This is the premise for the measure: an epidemiological situation that we all know well and which led to the decision, in an emerging way, as to how to carry out the examination of qualification to the forensic profession. We cannot ignore the fact that, within the Justice Commission, already in recent months with the previous Government and with Minister Bonafede in particular, we have repeatedly called for the problem, which was becoming bigger and bigger for practitioners lawyers and law firms who had to organize themselves according to that should have been the carrying out of the examination for the qualification to exercise the profession of lawyer, but no response has ever come. No reply has ever been received to the Commission; letters and requests for a hearing have been sent, but nothing has happened. From this point of view I should like to thank Minister Cartabia and Secretary Sisto, who took charge of the measure at our examination, and thanks to whom we have arrived at the drafting of which we are debating today. We enter into the substance of the measure: of course it is not the best possible, what many of us would have wanted, but - as I said - in the emerging phase it is necessary to decide in an emerging way. Yes, we could have made a choice, that of blowing the annuality and not giving the opportunity to this year's members to take the exam, precisely because of the emergency, but this - we know very well - would probably have created more problems, greater recourses and criticality. So you've come to the choice of finding a different solution from that of the written exam. We know very well how writing works. I personally took the exam in Milan, which takes place at the Fair, among thousands of participants, with a certain chaos, so the distance could not have been guaranteed and the situation of epidemiological criticality would certainly have brought serious problems. It could have been assumed to skip the written test - idea that at first it was flashed - or, even, to do a kind of maxisanatoria for this year: in short, the possible solutions were many and the discussion on the point was varied. Of course, if the Minister's predecessor had listened a little more, we probably would have other solutions at the moment, but that is the case. The choice of double oral is not my preferred solution, because probably, as has already been said by many other colleagues, does not guarantee the same degree of selection allowed by the written text. Precisely because we are talking about a particular phase, we must ask the Ministry for a kind of moral suasion - I ask the Undersecretary to be the bearer of this request - so that the committees and sub-committees that will have to examine the evidence of these young people - even if it is not just children, because there are also candidates who may come from other professions - are responsible. On the one hand, they must be aware of this emerging situation and, on the other hand, we must prevent this from becoming a maxi-sanatoria, as I said earlier. We have seen in recent weeks and months many of our colleagues be bearers of the interests of these practicing lawyers, young people and more. In particular, I remember Mr Toccalini, of the Chamber of Deputies, who in Milan listened to the voice of these young people and Senator Urraro himself told me that, in recent months, he had the opportunity to listen, in particular in the forum of Naples, to the criticalities of the category. All of us who conduct or have carried out the profession of lawyer have done the practice and we know very well what it means to carry out such activity, perhaps underpaid, in professional situations not certainly idyllic, in which there is a dominus that makes the practitioner do everything and more, without schedules and with ways of carrying out and learning the profession often not exactly perfect. I therefore believe that we must respect those who have carried out this type of practice even in the course of the examination, but we cannot confine ourselves to the debate on the state examination. Mr Secretary, I would also ask you to be a bearer of the reflection that some Members have already proposed on three fundamental points that I have identified. The first is the role of the lawyer: it is important, but it is not enough for the lawyer to be mentioned within the Constitution. The role of the lawyer must be fully valued and must be of merit and substance. I am also referring to the role of the state examination, which we are rightly talking about now. There is already a draft reform of the state exam, but it has been postponed over and over again, believing that it is not good. So either we do it again, or we keep what we have, but we have to make a choice. I also allow myself to throw another reflection there, on which within the hemicycle there are probably different visions, on the role of professional bodies. Such reflection is important, if we want to guarantee dignity to practitioners and lawyers, because it is good to remember that not all lawyers work in large law firms, with large clients and excellent parcels. In most cases, lawyers have a smaller and more client-friendly firm that can pay for what is right, for God's sake. We must therefore guarantee the dignity of both the great lawyer of the forum and that of the country or - as I call it - of the province, which, however, has a particularly important dignity, because it is the first bearer of the guarantee of the rights of the small citizen, that of the small town or of the old lady who has a problem with the bill of light, because he has got one of 20,000 euros for a problem at the counter. Let us remember that the lawyer is not only the one who gives a shit about money, as unfortunately is found today in the collective imagination. We must restore dignity, attention and seriousness to a fundamental profession. I did this profession not because I was a son of a lawyer, but because I firmly believed in his role. When I started practicing forensics, I settled in a study where - as I said before - I did a very hard practice, with a dominus sending me to do the stationery everywhere (there was no telematic process, like now). In that way you understand how you interface with people, with chancellors, with citizens and with the thousand problems of customers who arrive inside the studio. Mr Undersecretary, the lawyer is not protected today and we must take charge of this task of protection, because, if we do not carry out the real objectives, what is the Ministry of Justice doing to us? I know that the Minister is absolutely attentive to this type of problem and I very much appreciated his introductory report. I am sure that you, Mr. Undersecretary, and the Minister, will take this interest, which concerns, yes, a category, but which is also of the Italian citizens. If we eliminate the ability to be mediators - because this is also the lawyer, as Senator Modena rightly recalled - we remove a piece between the court and the citizen and, in doing so, we eliminate the protection of the rights of all citizens. I hope that in the coming weeks and months this debate will continue seriously, both in the Commission and in this House, to ensure that justice becomes an important and fundamental area, as it should be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u25	She's enlisted to speak Senator Gaudiano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just over a year after the outbreak of the pandemic, we are all aware of the serious situation that the Covid-19 forces us to face. To defeat this terrible invisible enemy, there have been many difficult decisions that politics had to make, with the help of technicians and the scientific community. Nevertheless, the emergency is unfortunately not yet behind us. The number of contagions does not allow us to breathe a sigh of relief and obliges us to put in place all the instruments in our possession to avoid an increase. For the same reasons, in the autumn, for the first time after World War II, it was decided to postpone the written proof of the state exam in order to become a lawyer. This test, traditionally carried out in December, had been postponed until 13, 14 and 15 April, in the hope that the health environment would be improved in the meantime. However, to date there has not been the desired improvement and it still seems unthinkable to carry out the written tests according to the classic modalities. In fact, it is well known that the conduct of the first test of the examination as a lawyer takes at least three days, grouping thousands of candidates in various locations on national territory. With a look at the experiences of the past years, we realize that it would be complicated and too burdensome to comply with the regulations in force in the field of assembly, which does not allow to group more than thirty people in a single location. The candidates who each year support at the same time the written evidence to become a lawyer are in fact a few thousand and are usually located in fair pavilions or equivalent structures. It is unthinkable to bring so many people together in one place today. In the same way, it seems very difficult to think of easily dividing candidates into small groups without having to bear very high organisational costs, even only in terms of personnel necessary for the control of the proper conduct of the tests. Furthermore, the risk of infection would remain too high: for example, the mandatory prior activity of code control or the consumption of food during written tests, which last at least seven hours. The scientific committee to which the Ministry of Justice has requested an opinion has thus expressed itself, without leaving room for any doubt: considering the epidemiological trend and taking into account the modalities of carrying out the tests, it is not conceivable to carry out the written examination of certification to the forensic profession in safety. Not even a further postponement of the writings would solve the problem, due to the long time needed for corrections and subsequent oral examination. It would then cross over to the 2021 skill session. Even more unthinkable is the possibility of not carrying out the 2020 state exam, first of all because it would mean mortifying the future expectations of more than 26,000 people who applied in that year. It would be unacceptable to frustrate the efforts of all those who, after the long course of study in law, have completed the period of practicing, often I have to say without any remuneration, investing personal resources and of their families. Their sacrifice and dedication they have shown deserve all our respect and commitment, so that a solution can be put in place to guarantee them access to the profession of lawyer. Also, it would mean surrendering to the virus and proving unarmed in this which is a real war. For these reasons, it was decided to take legal action to replace, only in the 2020 session, the written test with a further oral test. This first test, preparatory to the second one, will have a practical application question in the formula of the solution of a case that requires competences of substantive and procedural law. The candidate may choose between matters of civil, criminal or administrative law, in line with the traditional choice of opinion and act provided for in the written test. The time allocated will be one hour from the end of the dictation of the question. The candidate will have at his disposal the codes commented on with the jurisprudence for the first half hour; for the purpose of the preliminary examination of the question, and will be returned to him in the second half hour, dedicated to the oral exhibition of the solution (they will have been previously checked by a delegate of the commission). The candidate will be able to take notes, which will not be evaluated. When the discussion is over, the committee will meet in the boardroom, informing the candidate of the outcome of the trial. The first oral exam will be held before a commission other than that of the court of appeal belonging to the candidate. The selection of the commission will be made in accordance with the traditional way of drawing lots, after grouping between locations with the same number of members to support the test. The candidate will have to attend the judicial offices of the court of appeal district of belonging or at the premises of the council of the order, in the presence of the secretary of session, who will monitor the correct conduct, while the examination commission will necessarily be connected remotely. The second test will take place in the presence, before the commission established at the place of membership of the candidate, and will have a minimum duration of forty-five minutes and a maximum of sixty. In this way, it is considered that the risks of spreading contagion will be minimized, while at the same time protecting aspiring lawyers and court commissioners. Technology comes to our rescue, allowing us to rethink our habits, without sacrificing indispensable moments such as the selection of professionals of the future. This is, without a doubt, the way to defeat the virus: science, politics and technology work together to ensure the best solutions for all citizens [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u27	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members, despite the difficulty, which is also ours, that we cannot hide, in relation to the extraordinaryness - we would like to reiterate - of this year's test for the certification of the forensic profession. From the interventions that have taken place, the social role of the lawyer has emerged in all its strength, and we care so much about it. Let us think of a reform of the legal profession that the lawyer has been waiting for for over eighty years, because it was previously regulated by a Royal Decree-Law of 1933. In 2012 we obtained a regulation of the lawyering with a primary norm, Law no. 247, which represents precisely the role and the public reflection of the lawyering and consecrates its social function, as has emerged from all the interventions that followed this morning. The delicacy of 26,000 aspiring lawyers' trials is something significant at a time when rights are being squeezed. I always say this: even before defending the rights of citizens by the lawyer, here it is necessary to guard them by those who today enclose and verify so many social pathologies and so many sources of justice that must be transformed into a demand for justice understood as a common good. The interventions that have followed are significant and have traced an excursus also historical of the entire sequence, over the years, of the access to the forensic profession, which definitely deserves ad hoc attention at a time after this epidemiological phase from which we hope to get out really as soon as possible. I thank all those who have spoken, as well as the Government, and to the 26,000 candidates who are going to take the exam in April we wish a fruitful test and an important moment of access to the profession. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u29	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what was established during the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Regulation, amendments 1.0.2, 1.0.100 (already 4.0.1), 1.0.101 (already 4.0.2) and 1.0.102 (already 4.0.3). I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u30	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u31	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u32	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators La Russa and Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.2 to 1.0.102 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u33	Mr President, I withdraw amendments 2.4, 2.7, 2.9, 2.17, 2.24, 2.27, 2.28, 2.30 and 2.36.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u34	Mr President, I withdraw all the amendments tabled to my signature in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u35	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u36	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw Amendment 2.1 and turn it into an agenda, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u37	Senator Mirabelli, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 2.1 and turn it into an agenda? MIRABELLI (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u38	The opinion was in favour of amendment 2.2. I call on you to withdraw amendment 2.6 and turn it into an agenda, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u39	Senator Mirabelli, do you accept the proposal to withdraw amendment 2.6 and turn it into an agenda? MIRABELLI (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u40	The opinion was opposed to Amendments 2.10 and 2.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u41	Excuse me, Senator Urraro, but it turns out to me that Amendment 2.13 has been withdrawn. I would ask the presenters to confirm this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u42	Mr President, I believe that there has been a problem, so I repeat to you for the sake of clarity the amendments that are withdrawn. Amendments 2.3, 2.13, 2.26, 2.32, 2.35 and 4.3 are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u43	Thank you, Senator Mirabelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u44	Please, Senator Urraro, continue with your opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u45	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendments 2.14 and 2.22. The opinion was opposed to amendments 2.25, 2.31 and 2.34. On the other hand, I propose that amendments 2.23, 2.37 and 2.38; otherwise, the opinion will be opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u46	I would ask the authors whether they intend to accept the rapporteur's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u47	Yes, Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 2.23 and 2.37.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u48	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 2.38.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u49	Amendments 2.23, 2.37 and 2.38 have therefore been withdrawn. Please, Senator Urraro, continue with your opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u50	Mr President, the Government accepts the agendas of the G2.100 and G2.101 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u51	Mr President, as far as the amendments are concerned, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. I would just like to point out that, where Amendment 2.1 was first signed by Senator Mirabelli, it was withdrawn and transformed into an agenda, according to the rewording that was sent to the presenters, the same would be accepted by the Government. The Government accepts the agenda G2.100, provided that the following rewording of the device is adopted: It commits the Government to assess the possibility, in implementation, that, pursuant to Article 2 of this Decree, the Subcommittee, before the beginning of the first oral test, prepares daily the traces for each subject, in a useful number and in accordance with that of the candidates to be examined, from which the questions to be submitted to the candidate for the matter chosen by it will be extracted, in the manner to be established. If Senator Cucca agreed with this reformulation, the government would accept the agenda. The Government accepts the agenda G2.101 (text 2), in the reworded text that has been delivered to me by Senator Pillon and of which I read, if you want to mark the difference with the text reported in the file: It commits the Government to assess the possibility and the opportunity that the candidate, during the first test, exhausted the phase of the preliminary examination of the question, can consult only uncommented codes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u52	Forgive me, there is also Amendment 2.6, at the first signature of Senator Mirabelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u53	SISTO, State Secretary for Justice. I believe I understand that Amendment 2.6 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u56	MIRABELLI (PD). In addition to amendment 2.5, Amendment 2.6 is also included on the G2100 agenda. That is what was said in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Government's opinion on the G2.20 agenda is still missing.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u57	The Government welcomes the agenda G2.20, provided that the following rewording is made to the device: It commits the Government to assess the possibility and the opportunity, in implementation, to make without prejudice to the faculty for the visually disabled candidate, after showing adequate certification, to be able to carry with it adequate computer aids aimed at guaranteeing the possibility of consulting codes, also commented, exclusively with the jurisprudence, the laws and decrees of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u58	Senator Gaudiano, do you accept the request for reformulation? GAUDIANO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u59	Amendment 2.1 has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.3 to 2.9 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.10 tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.11 to 2.15 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 2.14 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.16 to 2.24 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u62	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I would like to draw your attention briefly to this amendment, which I signed, so that candidates who pass the first test, instead of 30 days, will be granted 60 days before the beginning of the second. I would like to remind you that in the ordinary exam, which took place with a first written test and then with an oral one, the time between the two, of course, was vastly more than thirty days and, in reality, even sixty days. We all know, in fact, that the time needed to correct written evidence was several months, in which the candidate (at least the one who knew he had done one with good chance of overcoming it) had plenty of time to prepare the subjects to be presented to the oral one. In our case, we have a first oral test that takes place that written. It would therefore be reasonable to allow the candidate a little longer time to prepare for the second. I do not think that, from thirty to sixty days, changes the meaning of this measure, but this certainly helps the candidates who already have to face a very difficult situation, like many other categories and, in short, leaves time to study the subjects that will be examined in the second test. So we propose, in essence, to raise from thirty to sixty days the period granted to candidates to prepare the second test.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u63	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.26 to 2.29 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.31, tabled by Senator Lonardo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.32 and 2.30 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.22 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Following the previous vote, amendments 2,34 and 2,35 were not included. Amendments 2.36 to 2.38 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.1, G2.20 (text 2), G2100 (text 2) and G2101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u64	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 3.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u65	All the amendments referred to in Article 3 have therefore been withdrawn and we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u66	Mr President, I have already explained the amendments in my general speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u67	Mr President, Amendment 4.2 had already been withdrawn and turned into an agenda, but we also withdraw the G4100 agenda. We also withdraw amendments 4.4, 4.7, 4.8, 4.10 and 4.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u68	Amendment 4.6 is withdrawn and turned into an agenda. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u69	Mr President, I am against Amendment 4.1. I call for amendment 4.5 to be changed to the agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of amendment 4.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u70	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. On the agendas resulting from the transformation of the amendments of Senators Evangelista and Gaudiano, 4.6, and of Senator Mirabelli, 4.5, I am opposed to the fact that there are great organizational difficulties, in a horrible year such as the current one, in order to achieve the proposed objectives that, even at the level of commitment of the Government, I cannot at this moment absolutely assume. My fellow Members will not want me, but the opinion is therefore against it on the agenda too.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u71	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Lonardo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.2 to 4.8 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u74	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, in voting in favour of amendment 4.9 by the Commission, which is reasonable and concerns health reasons, given that the issues of health, the courts, the lawyer and the judiciary have been discussed a great deal in recent days, I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the very serious positions taken by the bodies of the lawyer in relation to vaccinations and also to deprecate in this House the shameful notes of the National Judicial Association which wanted preferential lanes for vaccinations. Good lawyers, bad magistrates. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u75	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.9, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.10 and 4.11 have been withdrawn. I would like to ask the representative of the Government: once the amendments have been turned into agendas, do you also take the opposite view on them?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u76	Mr President, I clarify the government's thinking. There is no difficulty in recognizing that the need expressed on the agenda is undoubtedly legitimate. The theme is to give children who are abroad the opportunity to take exams in embassies, in predetermined places. At this moment there is no logistical availability of embassies. That is why the opinion is opposed to it, but when a ministerial decree can take this requirement into account, I believe that this is a ground that can be re-examined. I would invite, if the proposers were in agreement, to the withdrawal of the agendas, with the understanding that in own and opportune center one can reconsider logistically the manifested requirement.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u77	I would therefore ask those present whether they withdraw the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u78	Mr President, I add my signature to the G4.6 agenda and withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u79	Mr President, I shall withdraw agenda G4.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u80	We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u81	Mr President, I am against Amendment 5.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u82	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u83	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to the proposals for coordination. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the Coord coordination proposals. 1, Coord. 2, Coord. 3, Coord. 4, Coord. Five and Coord. 6, submitted by the Commission. The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u86	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure by my Group. I take back the reasoning I have made in general discussion. It is a measure that has certainly been slightly improved, but still presents some critical issues that I hope, in the ministerial decree, will be overcome. Certainly we cannot help but observe that the evaluation criteria will certainly not be homogeneous and we will have to intervene with the ministerial decree in order to ensure equal treatment for all candidates. It is also hoped that the proof will not become useless, but will allow... [[Brusio.]] I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u87	If my fellow Members who are moving away from this House can do so in such a way that Senator Cucca can make his speech, I would be grateful. I would also ask colleagues at the government's desk to allow Senator Cucca to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u88	Thank you, President. It would be desirable, in the ministerial decree, for action to be taken to ensure... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u89	Senator Cucca, hold on a second. To the senators who are next to my colleague Cucca, Senators Licheri and Mirabelli, I kindly ask you to step away from his post, to allow him to intervene. Thank you. Please, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u90	Thank you again, Mr President. As I said, it is desirable that the ministerial decree should specify criteria for the assessment of individual commissions in such a way as to ensure equal treatment and evaluation which objectively does not exist in the measure in question, precisely because of the arrangements provided for therein. While we realize that we are talking about an examination which will only take place in this way this year, because - as I have already said - of the emergency health situation, it is necessary to ensure a genuine selection among the candidates. We cannot forget that the category of lawyers - which has already been mentioned by others in general - has been suffering so much for several years and even before the emergency of health care, for the measures taken over the years and which have in some way limited their possibilities: in fact, some matters of their competence have been taken away from lawyers and distributed elsewhere; especially what happened with the tariffs forensic, with the elimination of the minimums, in my opinion has caused a very great damage to the category, which is experiencing a moment of great difficulty. It is undeniable that many studies have had to close and many lawyers carry out their work from home, not having the economic opportunity to hold an open study. In this sense, it is desirable that there should be a genuine selection and that only those who are really prepared and are in a position to carry out their activities properly can access the profession. I also hope that the ministerial decree will overcome the problem of the wording of the questions. We have tabled an agenda which provides for questions to be prepared shortly before the trial itself and drawn by lots before the candidate, who is remotely present, in the sense that it will be examined by a committee elsewhere, through the usual Zoom, Skype or similar programmes. Well, this will not allow a homogeneous criterion to be adopted, because questions may differ from one place to another and may also have an objective difference of difficulty. In ministerial decrees, therefore, action must necessarily be taken in this respect. A further matter of concern is the length of the test itself, because half an hour is allocated to study the question: I have to say that in half an hour it is very difficult to be able to give a complete answer. At this point, in the evaluation criteria, it will therefore be necessary to ensure that the candidate actually presents himself as being able to reason, manifests at least the knowledge of the institute in its fundamental principles and in some way assures the knowledge of that matter, because in half an hour objectively it is very difficult to carry out an in-depth examination. The amendment tabled on the subject is very good, because it would have been quite wrong to foresee - as the text initially proposed - that those who had chosen one of the three main subjects, namely civil, administrative or criminal law, could not then resubmit it to the oral examination. Now we are moving towards the specialization of lawyers - personally I have never agreed, but the address is now that - and so who does the practice in a matter is right that also the oral is expressed on the same that he presented to the written test, because maybe it is the matter on which he studied throughout the practice. With our vote in favour, my final wish is that we proceed quickly, and I also ask for the authoritative intervention of the Secretary-General, who knows perfectly well what we are talking about when we discuss access to the forensic profession. I believe that this can be a starting point for the reform of the exam in order to enter the profession of lawyer and it is desirable that in the short term we arrive at a complete reform, that certainly gives more certainty on the skill and competence of the people who present themselves, that at this moment, objectively, are certainly not assured by an examination that - as many have said - is more like a lot, often and willingly left to chance and luck. I therefore believe that the reform of the professional system and, above all, of access to the legal profession has become desirable. I believe it is also necessary to provide for a change in the way in which forensic practice is carried out. Objectively, it is difficult for practice today to prepare seriously for the development of the profession. One could then think of changing both the way in which the practice is carried out and, perhaps, university studies as well. I have said several times that it would be necessary to put in place a serious reform of the matter. If in the medical profession there are clinics, I believe it is useful, for those who intend to carry out the profession of magistrate or lawyer, to allow him in the last years of university to go on the field and check directly in courtrooms the conduct of a trial. Everything would be much easier and especially the students would be much more trained to carry out what they decide to be their profession. Therefore, I confirm the vote in favour: it seems to me that we can go on like this, although I repeat that the measure is an emergency and fortunately, for the coming year, we hope it can be changed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u93	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, the vote of the Brothers of Italy Group on the draft conversion law under consideration will be in favour. We tried, first in the Commission and then this morning in this House, to improve the text on what seemed to us to be critical. Some of our proposals have been accepted, and I thank the rapporteur and the Government for that. Others were rejected, on various grounds. Nevertheless, we believe that this is an act due to the more than 26,000 young aspiring professionals, who have carried out their curriculum and practice and therefore have the right to be evaluated for access to the profession. We are convinced that what we decide today is an extraordinary measure, dictated by the serious pandemic situation that Italy is going through and beyond. This is an extraordinary situation that will certainly not become the rule, because in the measure there are insurmountable criticalities. At a time when a written test cannot be carried out, it is clear that everything becomes much more difficult, because we are talking about selections that do not concern a few tens or a few hundred candidates, but - someone I recalled in the debate - that in certain court of appeal offices involve thousands and thousands of candidates (3,000 to 4,000, in the larger locations). It is clear that, without a written pre-selection, it is certainly difficult to rely solely on an oral test. We realize that the extraordinary situation could not lead to any other solution than the one under consideration, and if anything we regret that he has expected so much time to arrive at it, because the trials would have to take place in December and not next spring. Nevertheless, our concern about some aspects remains, and other colleagues mentioned it before me, in particular - I am addressing the Government, so that in the implementation decree it takes into account - regarding the homogeneity of evaluation throughout the national territory of candidates. In addition, the sub-committees reduced to only three components certainly pose a further problem of homogeneity of assessment. There is no doubt that candidates have the right to be evaluated, but they also have the right to a serious, objective and uniform selection throughout the national territory: what the rules we are trying do not guarantee us. Even the idea of preparing in advance a number - you decide if two hundred, three hundred, four hundred, five hundred, one thousand - of questions, on which then the sub-committees are based in order to be able to ask questions to candidates, I think it must be seriously taken into consideration, just to avoid the DIY questions that at that point could contain everything and the opposite of everything. This is a first point on which a great deal of attention will have to be paid. Another point on which, Mr Secretary-General and rapporteur, I sincerely do not understand why you have so stiffened up is the length of the examination. As many Members have already pointed out - then they have withdrawn all the amendments, because they have found a contrary position on the part of the Government - the duration of the first test is already short. The question cannot be simple, but it must be complex and it must allow the candidate to demonstrate that he knows how to reason on the law and the matter, as well as knowing it. One thing is to know the notion, another thing is to know how to reason about the notion and knowledge of the rules, which are certainly not the solution to the problem but the instrument of reasoning to solve it. Thirty minutes to prepare an answer could objectively be few, even if they are calculated from the moment the question is asked. Perhaps it would have been more appropriate to provide a longer deadline, not so much for the answer (half an hour can be fine), but to leave a little more time to the candidate for deepening and for the examination through the codes commented on with the jurisprudence, also through the possibility of taking notes. I don't think it would have been such an insurmountable problem to give him any more time. I am even more concerned about the second test, because it must take place in 45 minutes, at most in an hour. Already this time limit for which, after the sixty minutes have expired, we must close and send the candidate away seems to me contrary to the logic of such an examination. However, in the second test, forty-five to sixty minutes, in which the candidate is to be questioned, we must have an answer that - I repeat - cannot be normative, because we are talking about a profession of constitutional importance; we are talking about lawyers, that is, professionals to whom citizens must entrust the protection of their constitutionally guaranteed rights, whether criminal or civil. Do we really think, Mr Undersecretary, that we can assess the professional capacity of candidates on six subjects in forty-five minutes, which also includes the formulation of the question, thus leaving the candidate seven minutes to the maximum in order to be able to argue and make his own reasoning? Then you have to tell us that these are simply questions similar to those of a quiz or a little more, and therefore of nocturnal questions, because in about seven minutes I don't think you can develop who knows what topic, especially when you are also subjected to some emotional stress. Therefore, from this point of view too, I believe that we have become so stiff and - I repeat - so incomprehensible to me. I say this clearly because we are not talking about ideology, but about common sense, which must lead us to ensure that even under exceptional conditions the greatest possible seriousness is guaranteed and, with such strict and predefined times, I certainly believe that some doubt is legitimate. I therefore call on the Government to give further thought to this. Despite all this and regretting the fact that we are so late in finding a solution, we are voting in favour of this measure, because I repeat once again that ours is certainly a proactive and serious opposition, which aims to help solve the problems whenever we are allowed to offer our contribution, through dialogue and confrontation, even if from different positions [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u96	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today we are adopting an important and unpredicted measure, which puts an end - and this is the most important thing - to a situation of uncertainty which specifically concerns the professional life and the prospects of 26,000 candidates for the state exam for the lawyer. We have examined the measure in a positive cooperation between the Government and Parliament and we have done so quickly: it rarely passes fifteen days from the issuing of a decree-law to its approval in one of the two Chambers. And we do this to put the government in a position to set the date of the state exam as soon as possible. We do so - I repeat - by sending a positive message that the institutions unite, overcoming also the divisions and differences, put first: the need to respond to that need, to that need that so many boys and girls have manifested to us in recent months. The decree-law intervenes in emergency and this must be considered. This measure only explains why we want to make it possible for the 26,000 young people who have been unable to support it in these months because of the pandemic. We are about to adopt a measure that enables us to take the exam in innovative but no longer repeatable ways. And I think that's clear to everyone, including the government. However, the measure has the merit of allowing the examination to be carried out while maintaining a standard of seriousness and rigour that guarantees first of all that those who will participate and pass the exam will have an adequate professionalism to face a difficult career but - as has been said by many - fascinating like that of the lawyer. I believe that the double oral test, as conceived, is the most convincing system to be put in place to combine the guarantee of a truly probative examination with the limits of an examination that, because of the pandemic, must be done remotely. During these months, not only the Members of this House who deal with justice but many others, and also in this House, have taken up the many requests made in recent months by individual associations that have asked us to be able to face the examination and to do it well, to carry out a truly enabling examination. In this sense, for what it was possible to do, in such a short time, with the current emergency and the consequent needs, we committed ourselves to looking for solutions to further improve the measure. Firstly, there was a need for greater clarity on how to tighten up the system of definition and choice of the questions that will be the basis of the first oral tests. Well, it seems to me that, with the adoption of the agenda for the first time, Cucca, a good way has been found. I would like to point out to the government of the road that the sub-committees are able to define every day, for each of the three subjects, as many questions as there are those who examine the day, and then choose between the same questions, that seems to me a good solution. Perhaps we could do better, but this seems to me a good solution that guarantees transparency and seriousness. It is an agenda: we expect it to be incorporated into the Ministerial Decree, but certainly a step forward. Secondly, we insisted that at least the candidate should be allowed - to everyone's guarantee - to videotape his examination, as it is an examination that is done remotely and as the operating systems are set up for recordings. Here, too, we welcome the adoption of the agenda that we have tabled on this subject and we hope that any technical problems can be overcome. I think that the subject of video recording, which has been put to us by so many candidates and associations, can be taken as an opportunity to ensure greater transparency. Thirdly, we welcomed the rapporteur's amendment, which makes it possible not to exclude from the second oral test the subject chosen by the candidate in the first trial. This is an important and serious element, ensuring that candidates have knowledge and competence in the field of civil and criminal law, but that does not exclude from the additional subjects of the second test that was chosen during the first trial. I believe that this is an important step and the rapporteur's amendment takes up the demands of several of us. We regret - and I say this sincerely - that it has not been taken - but I hope, here too, in a rethinking when the ministerial decree was adopted - that we must ensure that those who are detained abroad are guaranteed. As a result of the amendments adopted, people in quarantine or who are not well will have the opportunity to carry out the examination remotely and there is an equal need to recognize this possibility to those who, even for reasons related to the pandemic, are detained abroad. We had proposed to have the consulates carry out the tests, because it is a remote examination. I think it's wrong to discriminate against these candidates, even if they were few. I repeat that, in the course of deepening and drafting of the ministerial decree, the Government will have to take account of this problem. (at 12.02 p.m.) (Following MIRABELLI). For these reasons and for the work done very quickly, we will vote in favour of a useful measure, in the belief that it serves. However, Mr Undersecretary, let me conclude by saying that we are also convinced that the reflections that this affair has produced on the value and meaning of the state examination should not be dispersed and that making this examination increasingly an opportunity for young people (and not a passage at the level that blocks some of them) is a fundamental issue to be taken up again in the coming months. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u97	Senator Mirabelli, I witnessed the discussion and exchange with respect to the agenda, listening to your reasons and those of the government. I suggest that we both, for the future, use a good recommendation in these cases, which can give the signal for the transposition of a necessity and the commitment to resolve it at a different time than at present.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u100	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has redefined many aspects of our social life and, for obvious reasons linked to the high probability of spreading the virus in very crowded places, it has also had an effect on the conduct of public competitions, including that of enabling the forensic profession. This is a much awaited exam every year by thousands of aspiring lawyers and this year, to be precise, involved about 26,000 people. For the first time since the post-war period, in fact, the pandemic prevented the carrying out of the written evidence of the examination of lawyer. As has also emerged from the technical report, the Ministry of Justice requested an opinion on the possibility of carrying out the tests to the Technical and Scientific Committee, which considered that, at present, it is not possible to carry out the written tests safely in view of the epidemiological trend. The written tests of the 2020 exam, which were to be carried out in April 2021, would also have required a further postponement, with the impossibility of completing the correction of the writings and then carrying out the orals in time for the 2021 session of the skill examination. The form of the decree-law was necessary, not only because it was supported by the reasons of urgency related to the pandemic, but also because it was imposed by the primary nature of the rules to which it is necessary to derogate, which still govern the examination as a lawyer. As is well known, the examination as a lawyer traditionally consists of three written evidences and an oral test, all of which have the same purpose, that of testing the candidate's ability to argue a legal case. The new evidence, on the other hand, consists of two oral tests. In order to guarantee the impartiality and transparency of the Commissioners who will carry out the examinations, it is established that the first oral test, which is of a pre-elective nature, consists in the examination of a practical case, the solution of which is presented before a commission other than that established at a place of residence - which in turn is different from that of the candidate - and identified by drawing lots. In order to make this test less difficult, absolutely new and for which candidates may not be prepared, the Government has undertaken to provide clarification of the exemplifications. In addition, by means of an amendment by the rapporteur approved unanimously by the Commission, the candidate will be allowed to extend the second oral test also to the subject already chosen for the first test. The ratio of the decree is therefore to preserve the health of the candidates and commissioners of examination and to guarantee, at the same time, a certain quality in the selection - which, it should be remembered, replaces three written evidences - based on the ability, indispensable for those who approach the profession, argument and solution of a legal question. Other methods of examination required by several parties, such as computer-based correction quizzes, would certainly have been simpler and perhaps would have protected even more from the risks of different evaluation meters by the many different commissions, but certainly would not have been as effective to test the legal-argumentative capacity of the aspirants, because they would have been a mere analysis of the normative preparation, also entrusted to the speed of the answers. A good lawyer, in addition to a solid preparation, must be able to orient himself between norms, doctrine and jurisprudence and have good exhibiting skills. The lawyer is in fact a fundamental actor in the trial; it is the professional of the court delegated to assist and defend a party in a civil, criminal, administrative, tax judgment, a role that, if exercised well, not only guarantees a constitutional right such as the right of defence, but can also make a considerable contribution to a just decision. Moreover, for a good lawyer it is not indispensable to possess the ars oratoria, the art of speaking in public; there is no need to be a sophist like Gorgia or a lawyer like Cicero, but it is enough to convince the judge on the rightness of his thesis and to be useful and reliable for his client. Of course an attorney must know how to write, we know that. But I believe that the new and temporary methods of examination, although different from the usual, can be suitable at this stage and constitute a correct balance between the need to select candidates to be enabled and health protection, absolutely justified by the emergency that we are experiencing. So good luck to all those who are waiting for this moment. For these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of Free and Equal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u103	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, historically, among the liberal professions, that of the lawyer has always had a special discipline. Only in the following years, almost recently, the free profession of doctor accountant has been brought into line with the system of selection of the lawyer. This morning Senator Emanuele Pellegrini recalled the activity of the lawyer. I would like to point out to you that the change in the work of the lawyer is substantial; just think that in the post-war period the lawyer was only the one who helped to guarantee the right of defence in the cases. Reflecting for a long time - as the Undersecretary Sisto will remember - in the discussion on the forecast of the lawyer in the Constitution, I have valued that aspect of the lawyer to which he referred Emanuele Pellegrini. What am I talking about? In the congery of laws, enormous in our system, not all citizens have the opportunity to realize their rights and duties. So the ability of the lawyer to make the citizen aware of his rights and duties makes him a privileged consultant, indeed the guarantor of the equality of citizens before the law. [[Applause]] Consider the principle of equality, which only occurs if I and another citizen have the same capacity and the same possibility of knowing what our duties and rights are; and that only makes it possible for a lawyer to do so. What lawyer? A professionally trained and adequate lawyer. I was born in Campania and therefore my first experience was to enter the palace of Castel Capuano, where were allocated the judicial offices of Campania (tribunal, court of appeal). There is a large hall, the so-called Busts Hall, where there are marble busts not of the magistrates, not of the politicians, but only of the great lawyers. [[Applause]] Even today, I fearfully enter that hall. If any of you want to go see him, you will realize what was the presence of the lawyer within society. Society was such that it taught me this experience. I always remember workers and peasants who, at the time of the great trials in the court of assizes, went to attend the trial. What are we gonna do this morning? Let's go see the trial. Now there is no more this custom; yet it was a great custom to understand what the assessments were. I must say with great sadness that, however, already then, in many of those circles, it was said: "When' speak' or fetent'? " (which was the public prosecutor). This is the logic of the lawyer's attention to the rights and principles of freedom. And I wonder whether it is right that, precisely for this reason, a system of access to lawyers has been maintained for years completely different from other professions. You all know, in fact, that a doctor and an engineer, even though they are responsible for our health, the stability of bridges and our homes, do only take a qualifying exam, six months after graduation, within the same university faculty. Lawyers, no, law degree isn't enough. Instead, we need a practicer of two years and then, finally, the examination. An examination that, over time, has become more a competition than an examination. At one time it was an examination of the lawyer's ability and ability, not only defensive, but of his knowledge and manner of relating to the law and the citizen who asked him for an opinion. Therefore, in fact, the examination was, more than anything else, a verification of the minimum elements and there was the idea that the profession would then make the lawyer. Today, instead, we are witnessing an almost competitive selection, which is derived not from the necessity of the laws or from the necessity connected to a greater difficulty of the profession, but simply from the huge number of participants, including that of those who will participate in the next contest, equal to 25,000 candidates. You realize that the pandemic situation has meant that it was not possible to celebrate this competition in December last year. It was postponed to April, but even in April there is no chance of dealing with it, not even as an idea. Imagine you putting 25,000 people in some rooms, providing at least 2000 people per room, to perform the written tasks, when there is a limit of 30 per room due to the Covid-19. I must acknowledge to the Government that I have invented a modality that shares in the same way, as it was between the writings and the orals, two modalities of evidence. A first test, albeit oral, but that is, neither more nor less, what I referred to before: to put forward a question and that the candidate has the ability and the possibility to express himself and to give account of his preparation. Many are opposed to keeping the code, whether commented or not, even to written evidence. No problem: you have to know how to use it. When does any magistrate and any lawyer who knows how to do their job begin to reason and evaluate the demands on the basis of memories? Even after forty years of professional experience, I continue, every time, to consult first the code, to read the norm and then to evaluate the possibility of application. That's the logic. So, having or not having the code, commented or not, what matters is a selection, a verification, of its ability to translate into legal terms those that are the demands of the citizens, contained in the question that will be proposed to the candidate. That's the logic. The second phase will be almost a phase of the previous oral. Here too there has been a long debate in the Commission on the desirability of setting a maximum and a minimum time limit for examination. I too would have been more favourable - and I have represented him to the Undersecretary - to identify only a minimum length of time, because the maximum time is difficult to identify. However, once I have identified the time of the exam, I'm interested in something else. I have had - thank God - also a university experience; sometimes the exam is solved in the first two questions. If, once asked the question, it is so obvious that the candidate knows nothing because he answers badly, there is no need to continue for half an hour or three quarters of an hour. We must have the ability to be interrogators: those who ask the question must be prepared to understand the candidate, as is the case in all universities. For this reason, with the limits and corrections that have been made, Mr Undersecretary, we shall be voting in favour of this bill. We hope, however, that, as soon as the pandemic is over, we will return to the previous system, with written proof and oral proof. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u106	OSTELLARI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, the coronavirus epidemic has surprised and brought the whole world to its knees. No one has chosen it or desired it, simply there is and with it we are all called to deal with it. Because of this pandemic every sector of human society is forced to reduce its expectations, to change lifestyles and projects, to suffer economic damage, sometimes, we know it well, unbearable. These include the area of justice, which, in a thousand difficulties, has tried to give answers in the courts and offices responsible for the immutable needs of our communities. We remember who was in charge of the offices: the magistrates, the staff and the lawyers, often - too often - left alone, with different protocols in the different territories, which created only confusion. The measure on which we must express our opinion today comes to light in the same emerging context and stands before this House with overwhelming urgency. Could he have been fired earlier, perhaps by the previous Executive? I leave this answer to you and above all I avoid giving in to the temptation of controversy. Of course, if we are here today, it is because the new government has chosen to face with responsibility and pragmatism the difficulties of this season. In this regard, I would also like to thank the members of the Commission whom I chair, who have demonstrated the same responsibility and a great capacity for synthesis and cooperation in dealing with this decree-law, and have enabled the planned process to be concluded quickly and well. This shows that parliamentary work is not a waste of time and that, even in urgent situations, the instrument of the decree-law is effective and, in particular, better than any decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. Thanks also go to the representatives of the professional bodies that we have audited in the Commission and of which, whenever possible, we have collected contributions. From them, as always, we expect a careful collaboration. Mr President, I too am a lawyer and I remember, like many of my colleagues, the trepidation with which I have dealt, a few years ago, with the examination of legal qualifications. A not easy examination, able to guarantee the preparation of candidates, because, when they are called to exercise their function, they will have to do so with the balance and professionalism that their precious role requires. This new examination, which the many candidates have been waiting for since December, will also have to ensure the same preparation, with exceptional rules and procedures - certainly - but without facilities, without aid, without discounts, because there cannot and must not exist B-series lawyers and A-series lawyers. Retracing the text of the decree-law that we are going to vote and also the majority of the speeches of those who preceded me, I can say that yes, what we are giving today is the best possible response in the face of the present needs; therefore to contemplate the safeguarding of health and the orderly conduct of the tests with the need to guarantee the levels of preparation and merit. We deserve: we repeat this word again because the country never needs it as it does today. Colleagues, we could have resigned ourselves to a further extension, to choose not to decide, not to express ourselves, to renounce our function, but we would have done the evil of justice and we would have failed to be loyal to the women and men who are waiting for answers and who are also victims of this pandemic. For this reason I say look to the future and allow through our vote to the many practitioners waiting for answers to measure their preparation and make themselves available to justice. The Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will then vote in favour of this measure. Allow me to conclude my speech with a message to the 26,000 candidates. Face your examination without fear. The pandemic has changed the world, but it will not change the values of human civilization: credibility and merit in the forensic profession, as in all areas of life, will always win and make a difference. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u109	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 31, which we are about to convert into law, is an emergency decree. Despite the launch of the vaccination campaign, the spread of coronavirus disease has not diminished and since the trials of the 2020 session of the forensic certification exam, for the first time since the post-war period, could not be held, they were postponed to 13, 14 and 15 April 2021. However, the current extremely serious epidemiological situation once again prevents the carrying out of written evidence. Therefore the Government, in agreement with Parliament and, in particular, with the Justice Commissions of the Senate and the Chamber - I would also like to thank the Undersecretary Sisto - after hearing the Scientific Technical Committee, has sought the best possible solution, although knowing that it does not please everyone. This is in order to avoid infection, especially between candidates and Commissioners. Account had to be taken of the need to avoid gatherings and moving around the national territory of some 26,000 lawyers and about 500 practitioners among magistrates, lawyers and administrative staff. It was also necessary to take into account the impossibility of carrying out the three canonical written tests at different locations of the national territory. It was therefore necessary to think of various organizational logical solutions so that these young practicing lawyers can enter the world of work as soon as possible, but in complete safety. No one can be left behind. It was also necessary to take into account the impossibility of completing the correction of any written tests and to carry out the oral follow-up in time for the examination session 2021 as well. This is why Senator Balboni's amendment was not accepted, which wanted to extend the term from the end of the first oral test to the second. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in this context we have decided to abandon the hypothesis of written evidence in the presence and replace it with an oral test with a pre-selective character, that is, preparatory to the canonical oral test. It is a genuine reinforced oral. The first oral of the examination consists in discussing a practical application question in the form of the solution of a case in the matter chosen by the candidate between civil law, criminal law or administrative law. The sub-committee prepares three questions for each candidate for the chosen subject and places them in separate and numbered envelopes, among which the candidate will choose one. The time for unwinding will be sixty minutes. It is regrettable that the young lawyers who asked for more time, perhaps rightly, could not be satisfied; however, it is thirty minutes to examine the question and thirty minutes to discuss it, always with the possibility to use the codes commented on with the jurisprudence, the laws and the decrees of the State. Once the test has been completed, the committee will withdraw to the Chamber of Evaluation Board and the outcome will be communicated immediately afterwards. The second public oral exam will have to take place, as I said before, within thirty days of the first and this is because it is hoped to conclude the first part of the exam in September and the second part by November, just to be able to do also the exam session of lawyer in December 2021. The discussion will focus on five subjects chosen in advance by the candidate with the addition of the code of ethics. In this regard, I would also like to mention the amendment, which was adopted yesterday evening in the Commission and voted today in this House, which gave lawyers the opportunity to choose between civil law or criminal law, even if this matter has already been chosen for the first oral. With regard to the discipline of the sub-committees, in view of the greater number of candidates, the legislation provides that they are composed of three actual members and three alternate members, of which two staff and two alternates must be lawyers enrolled in the Special Register for legal aid in the higher courts, while the others may be magistrates, including military, university professors or researchers, on the understanding that the president must always be a lawyer. With regard to the recruitment of administrative staff necessary to cover the positions of secretary of the commissions and sub-committees, by way of derogation from the 2012 law, this function also extends to the administrative staff in service in other public administrations, provided that they hold at least a three-year degree. Instead, the problem of the spaces suitable to allow the examination to be carried out is solved by calling in turn the candidates at the judicial offices and councils of the order where they have the residence and takes place with the connection remotely with the commission, which will be different from the one installed at the seat of belonging of the candidate, i.e. identified by lottery and this in order to comply with all the measures related to the emergency health. For the second oral exam, instead, the possibility, no longer the obligation, of remote connection is provided. It is also regrettable that the amendment that would have allowed lawyers resident abroad to take the exam at the consulates or embassies of the Italian Republic has not passed. [[Applause]] On the other hand, in case of virus positivity, quarantine or trust isolation, the candidate may, with request accompanied by appropriate medical evidence, request a new date for the trial and this also in case of illness, always thanks to an amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars. I want to conclude, Mr President, by anticipating the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars to this measure, but also by making a due consideration. This is certainly an exceptional test for future candidates for the profession of lawyer, because they too have been affected by coronavirus and this pandemic. In spite of everything they have continued to study, they continue to believe in it and want to enter the world of work as well. However, as I said, it is an exceptional test, because the forensic class must remain a serious and qualified class and this is in the social interest of all citizens who rely on justice for the protection of their rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u110	He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u111	Let's give the Undersecretary a voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u112	Mr President, sometimes someone tries to take my voice away, but he has little hope. I would like to begin by thanking the House. This is the first time I have spoken about a legislative measure and the case has meant that it was on the admission test for lawyers: if I had tried, I would not have succeeded. I am very grateful to the Commission, which has enabled a rapid and efficient result, in the interest of our 26,000 young people, whom everyone has mentioned. I would just like to point out how skills can also mean efficiency, and I would like to point that out. The dialogue serves, and also on measures of this importance, the synergy can be encountered, which makes the current moment of the Italian Parliament extremely positive and useful. I hope that this will be a good road for everyone and that the climate we have breathed in these hours can spread throughout the remaining part of the legislature. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u113	I make a suggestion for the future, with respect to the interventions of the Government. If the representative of the Government intervenes outside the reply phase, he can reopen the debate, with a speech of ten minutes per Group. So it has to be done very carefully. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law of 13 March 2021, n. 31, introducing urgent measures in the matter of the conduct of the State examination for the approval to the exercise of the profession of lawyer during the epidemiological emergency by COVID-19". (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u116	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I have asked to speak on the order of business, because there has been a very serious incident in these hours, the most serious incident since the Cold War. I am referring to the arrest of an Italian Navy officer, who was arrested together with a Russian military, for espionage. This is a serious threat to state security, which shows that Italy is also involved in the Russian offensive strategy. After the disinformation campaigns launched by organs close to the Kremlin, to influence Italian politics, this episode shows that the level of confrontation is rising further. Mr President, since the Copasir is paralyzed by the fact that its composition and its presidency do not correspond to what is laid down by law, the Brothers of Italy Group requests that he immediately come to the Assembly to report to the President of the Council or, for him, the Undersecretary by delegation to the Services. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u117	I suspend work until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.37 p.m. and resumed at 16.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u118	The next item is the debate on document XVI, No 5. The report has already been printed and distributed. I ask the rapporteurs, Senators Stefano and Pesco, if they intend to integrate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, today we are returning to the House a document which is very important for us and for the next generations, which holds together vision and proposals, values and projects. The work of the Commissions gathered 14th and 5th, as happened for the guidelines, has been challenging, with the aggraviation this time to have had to pass through the links of a crisis of government that has seen us wait for the definition of the new interlocutors in order to proceed to the analysis and the examination of the Plan. We have done so following a comprehensive round of hearings which has allowed us to develop the content of this document, which, in my opinion, shows a balanced synthesis of the various sensitivities which animate our Parliament, not only in the large majority. As rapporteur, together with the other rapporteur, I feel the need to use the time available to me to highlight certain points in the document, following a coordinated distribution with my colleague Mr Pesco. I start from two aspects that I define as system. The first concerns the need to transform youth policies, currently identified as cross-cutting priorities in the various missions, into a specific and autonomous pillar, as provided for in the EU Regulation of 18 February. This is a choice that we share in its ratio because it is consistent with the very aims of this Plan, which is specifically aimed at the new generations. The other point of the system that I intend to bring to the attention of the House is more specific and concerns the peremptory need to avoid the risk that, in the name of the strict timing and the equally demanding criteria that the Plan brings with it, only the projects already ready today will be financed. In fact, I would not like the practical translation of this principle, such as the immediate cantierabilità, to become the obstacle to the planning in the sectors and territories where the gaps are greater and where the need to work an equalization is more urgent. We cannot in any way allow the strict criteria in the time frame to function, between the mockery and a sort of counterweight, as an additional lever that ends in essence to widen the gap for which we are the target of this amount of resources and because of which we are implementing the Plan under consideration. It would be an unforgivable short circuit, which would immediately and without appeal decree the failure of what is a historic initiative that the European Union offers us. In fact, we have been seeing for years a lack of homogeneity in tangible and intangible services and infrastructure that the pandemic has only made more evident, compared to which, however, we now have the opportunity to operate. For this reason, gender equality, youth and the development of the Mezzogiorno are the basis of our attention and run along the whole Plan. On these three transversal elements we cannot fail in any way. Compared to the first - gender equality - it is clear to all how the crisis that we are still experiencing today has struck women and working women with particular ferocity. We have all read the data, which makes us shudder: the data on the incidence of their expulsion from work in 2020, to which we add additional burdens, what are the costs of managing children in DAD, of continuing to give assistance in the family context, for example, to elderly parents and, last but not least, of the possible coexistence with violence in our home. We have therefore decided to clearly indicate to the Government an important set of commitments to begin practically to recover what we photograph as a gap, but that for depth, complexity and interconnection is a universe that in our country needs a real energetic multisectoral initiative. Hence the commitment to ex ante monitoring, in itinerant and ex post of all the measures of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which will have effects on gender equality, as well as the commitment to overcoming the inequality in educational services, which hovers throughout our territory, the increase of paternity leave, the revision of the system of care of the elderly and the promotion of access to STEM faculties, thus crossing strategies for the present and investments for the future. Also in the economic sphere there are many tools and measures that we present today in the document under consideration of the Assembly: from the mere functional point of view, with the bureaucratic prediction of communication once only, to the reform of public administration, as well as the fiscal one, then to the incentives to digitalize companies or - again - to a series of punctual guidelines for one of the best expressions of Made in Italy, which is precisely the Italian fashion system, which also intends to develop its commitment in the field of green and sustainability. Finally, in my very close examination of the report to be entrusted to the Assembly (for whose contents I refer totally to the document deposited and distributed), I would like to dedicate one last step to the Mezzogiorno, because it is the reason why we receive more resources than other countries and it is certainly not a merit or a boast. It may or may not, but the European Union devotes 25% of the total amount of the next generation EU resources to our country in view of three parameters, which - it is useful to remind the House too because it helps us to maintain the horizon of our initiative - are constituted by the resident population, per capita income and the employment rate. With regard to these parameters the criticalities present in our Mezzogiorno have affected for at least 65% on the allocation granted to Italy. Precisely for this reason, the total share of the resources and investments of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan will in no way have to be equal to or less than 34% for the South, as required by the ordinary rule, as this percentage linked to the population is sufficient to maintain the gap and not to reduce it. We need to put together the pieces of a split Italy, which march with rhythms, means and instruments that are sometimes unbearably different and uneven. The document enriches and instructs the Initial Plan with a certain amount of details that were objectively missing in the version approved in January. We have worked to better define the excessively shy parts and to give greater vision and scope to those who presented themselves in an incomprehensiblely limited way. I refer, for example, to the need for high speed to connect all of Italy, the whole Adriatic dorsal and the whole Tyrrhenian dorsal of the Peninsula (I say all because from here we measure a fact of civilization). I refer, as another example, to the centrality of the Mediterranean for the development of the harbour system that cannot, nor must it continue to be declined second only the two ports hub of Genoa and Trieste. It's as if we deliberately choose to weaken our country system. We have seen, with the block of the Suez Canal lasted a week, what the traffic in the Mediterranean means. It is then clear that we cannot adhere to the vision that frames the ports of Taranto and Augusta - I quote two examples - in a logic of resistance compared to those of the other shores of the Mediterranean and according to a vocation mainly tourist, because in Italy tourism will certainly not leave only from the marinas. On the contrary, with the pandemic it has become evident that the heritage of unexpressed potential of our country is wide. I refer to the synergy, all to be built, given by slow tourism, the green tourism and the encounter with the typical Italian agri-food proposals (elements that we have focused well in the document). Closed this digression and taking up the theme of the Mezzogiorno, we ask for specific interventions also for the special economic zones (ZES), in order to make them fully operational. In fact, if we proceed to the construction of the infrastructure in that hexagon, then we must work accordingly to enable them to function. I shall conclude, Mr President, and I will do so by opening another brief parenthesis. Several infrastructure works already funded have been chosen to be included in the PNRR and important resources will therefore be released. I therefore call on the Government to take a strong and shared commitment in preparing, in conjunction with the implementation of the Plan, a programme for the re-destination of these resources in favour of projects that do not fall under the strict requirements of the EU Regulation/2021/241, but which respond instead to specific national development interests such as the modernisation of the road and motorway network also in the South of the country. In the same way, given the timing, it is necessary to think of ad hoc regulatory procedures to ensure the effective conclusion of the PNRR projects. I therefore give the Government these reflections, with the heartfelt appeal that the Executive, as promised by President Draghi in the Chamber and then by Minister Franco in the Commission, not only take into account these indications in the preparation of the new Plan, but above all involve Parliament in the final approval and monitoring of what will happen after the submission of the Plan to Brussels. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u120	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Stefano for the work he has done in the Commission, as I thank all my colleagues and colleagues. In my opinion, we have done an impressive job and the report itself produced proves it, because the objectives that we are trying to achieve through this Plan are really many and many observations that we have collected through the hearings and contributions that have come from the senators and senators. We therefore have a substantial report, and this is because we have spoken about a National Recovery and Resilience Plan which, however, had shortcomings, we cannot fail to remember that. The themes are indeed very many and there are also many resources, more than 200 billion. At the same time, however, the things we would like to do cost a lot more, in my opinion almost ten times as much. Unfortunately, these are the resources we have, and we must therefore concentrate on actions aimed at achieving the objective as effectively as possible. One thing, however, we must remember, namely that we have already expressed ourselves in a very full-bodied way on 13 October on the so-called guidelines, after examining them between September and October. We have indicated to the Government a multiplicity of useful addresses, to be taken into account for the drafting of the Plan. However, we must admit that, unfortunately, even in that case, not all the indications given, which were really many on that occasion too, have been transposed. A statement, however, we can make it that the Plan, for which it was thought that there were major upheavals with the transition of government, ultimately remained essentially the same, as has been pointed out and remembered also by the various Ministers that we heard at the hearing. This is important, although unfortunately we do not have any significant details to understand whether the Plan that is being perfected with the dialogue with the European Union really takes into account the things that we indicated in the previous passage in this House: this unfortunately still leaves some element of lack of knowledge on an extremely important level. The prayer that I address to the Government, therefore, is to inform us as soon as possible about the details of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, because it is right that, not only Parliament, but also all Italian citizens should be properly informed about what they intend to do in detail, in which we know we can hide measures that perhaps are not entirely appropriate. [[Applause]] I would like to talk essentially about two major missions, the environment and social inclusion, which, in my opinion, are among the three most important pillars of the Plan and, above all, are areas in which unfortunately we have not been able to do much. As far as the environment is concerned, we already mentioned it in October, there was a very heavy fundamental absence: I am referring precisely to the protection of the territory and the environment. There are almost 70 billion on the environment; many are destined to meet the climate targets by 2030. I am referring to the reduction of gaseous emissions by 55%: a very difficult target to achieve, but we will do everything we can and we will do everything we can to achieve the best result. Unfortunately, however, there is little about protecting the environment. I am referring to the creation of those green infrastructures that are necessary for its relaunch. I know it seems a strange term, but without investments in the "renaturalization" of the territory we will never be able to heal the damage produced in the decades that preceded us, because in those years there was not yet a sufficiently developed environmental culture and the damage is really many. We should start there, but unfortunately there's not enough in the Plan. My prayer, also included in the conclusions of this report, is to do everything possible to include the protection of ecosystems among the objectives that the Italian Government has set itself through the implementation of the Plan. We have really important environmental pockets and gaps. I am referring to the goodness of the waters, both marine waters and inland waters. Seawater classified as ungood even reaches peaks of 73 and 76 percent; it is a very serious thing. As far as inland waters are concerned, things are a little bit better, as we reach 50 percent of bad water classification with regard to lakes. Luckily, the groundwater that reaches the good state exceeds 50 percent, reaching 57.6 percent. But the situation is truly dramatic; on this I really ask for a commitment to the Government to do much more. There are systems of renaturalization and cleaning of the lands that are natural and organic, the so-called bio-remedies. Well, in this Plan we should do more, even through bio-remedies, to repair the environmental damage that has been created. Still on the environment, there is definitely something more to be done about one of the measures that still has space; I am referring to the superbonus that we are implementing in recent months throughout Italy. More should be done to ensure that the years in which work can be carried out with public assistance can be extended as far as possible. [[Applause]] We know that it is not easy, because Europe is asking us to be able to spend these resources by 2026 and so the tax credit absorption programme would go longer, but we must do everything we can to try to extend the superbonus at least until 2023 and, who knows, maybe even further. It is important to focus much on social inclusion. Unfortunately, in Italy, given the time we are living, the situation is really critical. The associations we heard during the hearings brought us the testimony of many people in difficulty; we refer to lonely people, people who are not self-sufficient, people with disabilities and the elderly, for whom we should really do more. The most important thing that they have asked us, in addition to the economic resources needed to improve services to people, is to try to reform the provision of social assistance services with a view to reducing fragmentation, uniforming and coordinating them, so as to make it easier for these people to access requests and obtain social services. This is an extraordinarily important measure, which we must achieve through reform. In the Plan there is something about help and assistance, but it is all about providing and providing homes with technological, IT and digital tools to make care easier. But we know that's not what we need. We need more staff to carry out these services, we need to personally reach these patients, even at home, we need more human resources. We know that the Plan is not aimed at this, but we could study projects, even limited in time, that act as a pioneer towards the improvement of services to people. I think we can do so much; with technology and with the network we can really do more. Let's move on. During the period we are experiencing, the discomfort of many sections of the population who were accustomed to being well and who have now become impoverished is growing. There are really many and many are linked to the production system. Therefore, we must find a solution that can combine the needs of the production system and the smallest realities, which are really in difficulty, with the families of reference. Therefore, it is necessary to find suitable tools and offer a ceiling of opportunities (although the term opportunity is certainly not the most suitable) and services for these small businesses, to help them to have economic support, but, above all, to restart. The right to restart is also enshrined in the recovery plan and we really need to be able to restart. What services can be provided to these families and, above all, who can provide the most important service, i.e. economic resources? The banks. It would therefore be useful to ensure that the absorption of the bank's capital lending money to people in difficulty is reduced. In this way, we will be able to help both credit institutions and people, because they would receive more resources. It is also important, for families linked to companies in difficulty, companies that would not be able to start again even with the economic help, to find more correct systems to help them economically. Still, it is important to make sure that normative answers are found, so that it is easy to restart these people, through instruments that already exist, such as the corporate crisis code and the over-indebtedness law. However, it is necessary to have these instruments discussed, so that a family linked to a small enterprise, which has not found development and which unfortunately is not present at this time, may have the power to understand what is the best solution to get out of a debt crisis and to be able to start again. It is important to do more. That was also said when we discussed the guidelines: this is a fundamental thing. This is a particular time. Many families and many companies are ill, but we must admit that many families, perhaps linked to people who have no problems with their jobs, have accumulated more savings in this period than in previous months. It would be important to be able to dialogue the savings accumulated with the necessary help for households and businesses. Therefore, perhaps even within this Plan, since it serves the purpose of restarting, we could find suitable tools to enable this possibility of offering to dialogue with the needs of people and families; as well as finding useful tools for investment and aid to small businesses and small businesses. Finally, thank you all again for the work you have done. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u121	I note that any address documents will have to be submitted before the end of the debate. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Next Generation EU is the great opportunity for the development of our country. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan can allow Italy a real change of course and an important acceleration, making it a more sustainable and inclusive country, with a more advanced, dynamic economy, but, at the same time, with a true revolution and stabilisation of its social structure. It is a recovery plan that will not have to take us back to the time before, but will have to allow to build a new Italy, that knows how to collect the opportunities connected to the ecological and digital tradition, creating new employment, but also improving the quality of work and services, in particular the health structure and the organization of the school-training system. It is a plan of resilience, because the pandemic and ecological emergency makes it essential to prepare well to face the complex problems, already present, but further accentuated by the pandemic, in order to be able to restart and prepare the future. We could sum this up in one sentence: to govern the transformations without undergoing them. The PNRR proposal provides for a structuring according to the three strategic axes we know well: digitisation and innovation, ecological transition and social inclusion. In addition, it includes a breakdown with its six horizontal missions, which aim to achieve major strategic objectives, which we could define as being intended for social rebalancing and adequate cultural development: gender equality; increasing the skills and employment prospects of young people; rebalancing of the territory, with particular attention to the Mezzogiorno. In particular, the health mission, which, especially at this time, represents one of the fundamental points of the programme, includes two main areas on which to focus attention, which will have to allow a positive shot of our health system, with a gradual and progressive improvement, both qualitative and quantitative, of health care, trying to bridge, moreover, the natural territorial differences existing between the various areas of our country, reaching a greater homogenization of the various services provided and the services provided, with an improvement of its structural organization, both at territorial and hospital level. Therefore, in this light, on the one hand, the planned enhancement of local proximity assistance and telemedicine and, on the other hand, the focus on research and digitisation of healthcare, which includes, in particular, the new health file. The entire territorial network, with its reorganization, will make it possible to better treat patients, especially chronic patients, in their homes, among their affections, recognizing the importance of the psychological component in the overall care provided. All this can be achieved with the proper implementation of home care integrated with the homes of the community and, for intermediate care, in community hospitals. Moreover, the improvement of telemedicine is fundamental, capable of reducing distances and allowing links with specialist reference structures. All this will allow better management of the acute and to provide assistance in emergency situations, improving the quality of the home performance provided. You can and will have to do better and quickly at the sick person's bed. Another aspect that I would like to stress is the valorization of research, which must no longer be regarded as a source of expenditure, but as a real investment for the future; not a dry branch, in which to waste public money, but a fundamental point on which to invest in order not to always get late to the great battles, as is precisely that of the pandemic. Covid-docet vaccine. In this respect, funds should be increased for the production of anti-Covid vaccines and the production of vaccination doses on licences from foreign pharmaceutical companies should be increased in Italy. According to Movimento 5 Stars the best way to achieve this remains the temporary suspension of patents. Let us never forget that only a global vaccination will allow the real success of the vaccination campaign. More research is equivalent to more employment, less brain drain abroad. Our country must become an active subject, play a leading and leading role in the field of international scientific fora, as well as in tradition and for the very high skills and professionalism present in our universities. The greatest difficulties that could be encountered in the implementation of the many projects included in the Plan could, in my opinion, be found in achieving the right balances, the correct coordinations and the appropriate links between the different competences and the organizational structures involved, given also the massive amount of programs and projects to be carried out. Skills, professionalism, overcoming cross-ceilings or barriers, including cultural ones, not to mention demagogic ones, which often hinder and slow down the proper course of implementation of reforms and major projects. We live a challenging and difficult historical moment. It is an important challenge for Italy and for Italians; in order to win it we need the contribution of all, each for its part. Only by working together will we succeed in overcoming this global crisis, defeating the pandemic, sharing with solid foundations and with clear and new ideas, achieving the intended objectives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u123	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, in response to the consequences of the pandemic crisis on the economy, the European Union has recognised scientific research as one of the public investment priorities for relaunching. It is in this area that I would like to make my contribution today. I would like to do so by addressing four key aspects of research, which touch on the draft National Recovery and Resilience Plan under discussion. The first aspect concerns research resources. Being able to count, thanks to Next generation EU, on a greater share of resources can allow us to bridge that gap on the number of PhDs per year (9,000 in Italy versus 15,000 in France and 28,000 in Germany), or that on the number of public researchers (just 75,000 in Italy versus 110,000 in France and 160,000 in Germany). Well, that is what is proposed by the scholars who signed the so-called Amaldi Plan, partly reflected in the report of the Commissions that we are examining today. Increasing the number of researchers means having more ideas in the field, more roads imagined, more innovation potential for the benefit of the national economy and international competitiveness. But be careful that these goals are not achieved automatically, so, aiming to increase the number of scholars, we have to ask ourselves what we want to offer them, how do we think of developing their best ideas to turn them into added value, with which tools we want to intercept and enhance the talents. As far as the second point in my speech is concerned, there are measures for young people. Investing in young people means only one thing: guaranteeing them freedom of access to public funds through competitive procedures and competent and independent assessments of their proposals. It is therefore a good thing that a multi-annual public funding programme is envisaged in the PNRR draft, and therefore lasting, at least for five years, to turn on new research laboratories, to create new research teams that study everything - I would say - everything that is useful to know and know how to do, in every humanistic and scientific field, led by young researchers. It will have to be a plan aimed at finding and bringing out the talents widespread in the country and bringing others from abroad, paving the way for them to become the new excellences of international research of the future. An ambitious programme, inspired by the calls of the European Research Council, the European research council (ERC), aimed at early career researchers. An Italian ERC therefore to which young people can look with confidence to place themselves in those public bodies that will want and will be able to welcome project and independence. I now come to the third point, to express a strong concern about the PNRR draft. The concern is that we cannot always make the same mistakes that then force complex and difficult changes in progress. In the PNRR draft there is the intention to introduce into the already widespread, complex and underfunded system of public research in the country, seven other national samples of research and development and another twenty territorial samples of research and development - that is, another 20 plus seven research centres, or so we mean - probably overfunded. We do not understand the need or, better, we cannot create new bodies without first carrying out a thorough analysis that demonstrates the need for these new physical centers that are 20, 27 or only seven new structures, to understand also how they will have to be organized with respect to the existing bodies and to the many theoretical and applied research groups that already perform exactly the functions that would be assigned to these new institutions in the country. It is a necessary analysis, ladies and gentlemen, which is currently absent; it is also necessary to understand and explain to citizens how the centres envisaged can be sustainable, compatible and complementary with the agencies - as many as 135 - which already deal with research in the various fields. Once this has been established, a competitive procedure should be identified, open to individual bodies and research groups, in which to present detailed and motivated projects for the realization of such structures, to understand where to place them in the country and why, in order to be able to select the best proposals of contents of those centers, from the best range of scholars, the most suited to the needs of the territory and the community. For example, compared to one of the seven national research and development champions, the National Centre for Artificial Intelligence, I wonder whether the risk of overlapping with existing bodies and activities has been assessed, the risk of spending European funds on unnecessary multiplication of bodies. I have been told by some authoritative scholars in the sector that there has never been a prior analysis and consultation. I also wonder if the National Interuniversity Consortium for Computer Science, which since 2018 has a specific branch on artificial intelligence, has been questioned: it does not appear to me. Look, of excellences and talents spread throughout the territory our country is already rich. There are, indeed, the one hundred and forty institutions that do research every day with the aim of creating new knowledge useful for the growth of businesses and territories, therefore of the country, and that includes universities, research hospitals and public research bodies, even if their work is often unknown to citizens and political representatives. To look at the results of the work of these scholars, who already exist, there is something to be proud of; our young people obviously form well, but I wonder if all this is known. I wonder, for example, how many, in the institutions committed to designing our future, are aware that it was the universities of Modena and Reggio Emilia and San Raffaele of Milan that developed the first drug in the Western world based on stem cells and that thanks to stem cells and thirty years of research, always in the laboratories of Modena, it was possible to rebuild the skin of a child who had lost more than 80% because of a rare disease, making it a normal life. I wonder how many know that the students of the CNR of Cagliari and of the University of Sassari are number one in the world on genomics; that the University Federico II of Naples is known all over the world for the studies on the risk and history of the eruptions of Vesuvius, as well as for robotics; that the Italian geologists are in second place in the world, behind the United States and in front of China, for the studies on landslides and the first place in absolute in the study of the great biological extinctions; that are Italian researchers of astrophysics who have described for the first time the Cyclonic vortices of Jupiter, great as the earth, that stationed at the two poles of the planet, a discovery valsa the cover of "Nature"; that at the University of Bologna is studied the origin of the writing and the linguistics of the missing languages; that the University La Sapienza of Rome, just this year, has reached the summits of the world rankings thanks to the scholars of the sciences of antiquity. I wonder if it is precisely this lack of knowledge of what we already have the reason why the creation of ex novo centres and structures is proposed cyclically. But, beware, the ignorance of this reality does not free from the responsibility of improvised decisions. I come to my fourth and final point with a reflection, or rather a proposal: I believe that, in addition to not venture into the creation of new centres that do not descend from an analysis of their need, it is important to work to enhance the excellence spread in the country. They exist and are around us, starting with universities and research institutions. A strategy could include actions on a competitive basis, reserved for universities and research bodies, starting from those of the most isolated areas of the country, the so-called internal areas, providing an additional weapon against phenomena such as demographic, social and economic depletion of those territories. In concrete terms, it would be a call for at least 10-15 projects to be financed annually for five years from EUR 20 million each, on the basis of an open, competitive and transparent evaluation. See that the order of economic magnitude is not too different from what Germany has done in promoting the programme of its strategy of excellence. It has not created new bodies, but it has opened notices and has put in competition the existing bodies. In the first phase, for the years 2006-2011, it provided for an investment of 1.9 billion euros and in the second phase, for the years 2012-2017, given the positive outcome, it put into play 2.7 billion euros. You could really do that. Moreover, now it is perhaps time to allow access to new resources, always allocated on a competitive basis, to all researchers, to any entity belonging to them, regardless of the administrative fences of origin: this would already be a simple and revolutionary reform. Innovating doesn't necessarily mean building from scratch. The most courageous innovation often lies in a paradigm shift in resource management, in a reform that serves to enhance unknown or underestimated wealth and excellence. The competitiveness of the country also passes from a homogeneous relaunch of investments in public, humanistic and scientific research, and from open and transparent, free and competitive procedures. In conclusion, aware that the PNRR is still in the process of being defined, I can only express my positive opinion on the document that the Senate is dismissing, especially when it explicitly states that - and I quote the document - a preliminary analysis of the needs, where new structures, the research centres, are going to integrate an existing context, as it is considered necessary to define criteria principles and methods related to the management of the trusts, as well as the identification of the entity responsible for selecting the projects to be financed. These indications are the result of a reasonableness, which should preside over the definition of every public policy and which I sincerely hope that the Government will undertake to transpose, so that our country can fully benefit, for the present and for the future, from the competition of equal arms among the best ideas, from whatever part of Italy they come from. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u125	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u126	Mr President, our country will have EUR 209 billion available, as a result of the terrible pandemic that we are still experiencing. This is a historic response from the European Commission to the health, economic and social crisis. As Senator Stefano, rapporteur of this document and President of the European Union's Political Commission, very well recalled, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the two Presidents, who have done a huge and extraordinary job, including the pooling and coordination of the relevant Commissions - the financial instrument is called Next Generation EU not by chance, because implementation policies will have to be dependent on the benefit of the new generations. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan has this great goal in itself and gives us a huge responsibility. In my opinion, we must invest these resources from a voice that, in our heart, will always have to tell us: never again a health system so unprepared for the pandemic, with overcrowding in hospitals, with having neglected and penalized patients of other pathologies (cardiopathies, cancer patients, neurological patients, patients suffering from rare diseases, who are still penalized), with a land of no one on the territories and with such a strong differentiation between regions that we are seeing and seeing also in the vaccination campaign, with a great deal of our bureaucracy. Well, Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, our 'never again' must turn into a health revolution, which must provide the centre with a territorial health care in which there is no longer a desert between a basic doctor and a hospital. The basic physician should be a territorial primary able to put together multidisciplinary teams, local specialists and continuity with hospitals. There is a need for territorial health which is able to assist the elderly, those who are not self-sufficient, chronic patients in particular; a health care system with correct lifestyles, so that our young people today will grow older; a health care system that puts health and the environment at the centre: the words of President Pesco have been very significant in this regard. The more we take care of the environment, the more we take care of our health. Neighborhood health is necessary with decent tools, worthy of a country of the contemporary world; a health care of telemedicine, digitalization, that uses artificial intelligence throughout the national territory. Our country excels for quality experiences, but the challenge must be to ensure that all the national territory understands these important innovations. I repeat, digitisation, personalized care, in order to certainly save lives and live better, but also to spend less resources in the future. And I stress the importance of taking care of patients, in a continuum of which we so much discuss in the Commission that I honor to preside in the context of an assigned deal on territorial medicine (which I hope in the coming weeks will come to the conclusion that our contribution will be offered to the entire Senate). Well, there are these intentions in the current PNRR, but we must put ourselves right, soul and heart to transform our health system, to prepare ourselves also for possible other epidemics with concrete proposals, vision and projects, as our rapporteurs said. A tiny virus has shown us that if health care kneels, immediately the economy, work and our intrinsic humanity, which is made of relationship with the other by itself, is denied to us at this time, especially for our boys and our girls. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan is our political, ethical and I would say existential challenge. We wait for the government to come and discuss concrete projects with Parliament, because it is essential that we representatives of the nation, as our Constitution states, can make a proper contribution to this National Resilience Plan, with its resources. We politicians must be one with citizenship at this time. We political classes of this time, like all the citizens of the world, have been affected by this terrible epidemic; we must live up to our responsibility and only together will we be able to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u127	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been waiting a long time for this time of discussion and discussion on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which has been committed to us since September 2020 and will engage us in the coming years. I think that the burden of responsibility is common to all of us: trying to imagine a future, never as at this uncertain moment, requires a great effort individual and collective, localistic and global, and also requires us to accept at the same time a challenge for the future that involves building a new way of life on our earth. All this in the middle of a pandemic. The green new deal, Europe's new green pact, and the European Union biodiversity strategy for 2030 have already highlighted before the pandemic the profound link between the health status of natural ecosystems and human health. I would like to summarize this concept: every man should carry with him a tree with which to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide for life. In both strategies, the European Commission expresses this profound and indissoluble link with the one-health concept and in turn the World Health Organisation (WHO) in 2004 intended to express this idea as human, environmental and animal health. The question is whether the National Recovery and Resilience Plan responds to the recovery fund's demands. In my opinion, not entirely, because there are some fundamental issues missing for our country; in the absence of time, as this is a minority motion for a resolution, I can mention only two of them. The PNRR proposal completely ignores a fundamental issue that concerns all the missions of the Plan, that is the planning of the use of the terrestrial and marine space that it serves for the realization of the infrastructures that it previews. If we do not deal with this matter as soon as possible, we will create social and economic conflicts that are not easily manageable. Today it is 31 March and the plan of use of the marine space should have been already operational; without it you risk to damage the economy of the sea. I fear that without a shared plan with all stakeholders we will risk promoting the energy transition to the detriment of fisheries and tourism. Space, however, also serves to regenerate natural capital, which means protecting the biodiversity of the natural ecosystems that are the basis of our lives. We have all agreed to increase land and marine protected areas by at least 30%, but I do not think I have read anywhere on how to comply with this commitment. This still leads us back to planning. The ecological niches of value that allow the regeneration of the natural capital must be identified as the first element and only after you can decide where and what to build. In the PNRR we have forgotten that Italy is a peninsula with more than 8,500 kilometers of coast, marine protected areas, archipelagos, inhabited islands, ports and that therefore the sea and the blue economy are fundamental elements for our country that must be protected and promoted. Climate change in the first place will lead to an increase in the level of the sea, thus the disappearance of most of our coasts, with enormous human and economic damage. The recovery fund gives us the opportunity to fill this gap and that is why I urge colleagues to vote on the motion for a resolution which offers a very detailed focus on the issue of the sea and the blue economy, as well as on biodiversity, and the fundamental actions to adapt to climate change. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask for the split vote on the motion for a resolution at my first signature, separating the vote on the petitum from the premises and the recitals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u129	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u130	Mr President, the recovery plan reviewed this week looks like a dream book, where everyone can read among the smoky lines what they want and clearly express their wishes, but then we have to face reality. 16:59 a.m. (Follows NASTERS). We know that this document comes from the Count Government and unfortunately the new Executive must also carry it forward. We know perfectly well that there have been errors on the part of the Count Government. Even Merkel, a few days ago, took a step back on lockdown and apologized, because the same would really create a great discomfort to both citizens and the economy. We know that it is not enough just to talk about recovery: we need projects and ideas, but we do not see many of them; we see them especially from the Italians, who are participating in this debate with great fatigue. The Plan, as I said before, was set up by the Count Government; Parliament is doing a great deal of work, especially because it is an old and outdated document, which will not be presented. That is why we of Brothers of Italy would have wanted a completely different approach and full involvement of Parliament, also to present improvements through the amendments. With regard specifically to environmental aspects, it would certainly be a key point to work on changing the superbonus to 110%, because we know that it is certainly an important instrument that families and companies would like to draw on. Unfortunately, however, bureaucracy restricts a lot in this respect. Just to give concrete examples, of the 6 billion euros of deduction planned, only 340 million euros were used in deduction to finance only 3,100 interventions throughout the country. They are certainly very low numbers, whereas in theory - I repeat - this instrument could have a total effect on the economy of about EUR 21 billion. We must work - it is fundamental and one of the issues that I have addressed in the Environment Commission and which I continue to stress - especially to simplify the various administrative procedures. This is a prodromic condition for the success of all initiatives aimed at relaunching the economy. Another proposal is the extension of the 110% superbonus to other types of property that are currently excluded. I am thinking above all of tourism, therefore of the accommodation facilities and hotels that are currently suffering. We must extend and, above all, grant an extension, not least because there are very few 15 months. Unforgivable - and I conclude, Mr President - is the absence in this recovery plan of youth policies. Let me say that Spain, France and Portugal have certainly done well: a perspective must be given and a government must also have foresight in helping our young people. This would not be a dramatic mistake, but a terrible failed opportunity, because a government that does not give young people the opportunity to stay in this country has certainly failed completely with its proposals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u131	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u132	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators representing the Government, today we are at another important stage in the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which will come to the attention of the European Commission after a further very important step in Parliament, preparatory to the arrival of the funds of the famous Next generation EU. In this speech, I will deal with mission 6. In view of the pandemic situation, which has highlighted all the criticalities of the National Health System, while acknowledging - I still do this now - the great effort made by the healthcare staff, always to be thanked, the mission related to the health part is creating a lot of expectations: it is expected that the projects that are part of the Plan can fill the shortcomings found during the emergency Covid. We have made a significant contribution to expressing our opinion in the Commission with our suggestions, which are also derived from the hearings, to the completion of a work already planned by the Commission, which will undoubtedly be the consequence of all the projects. The projects planned are primarily aimed at strengthening territorial medicine - an important and fundamental challenge and challenge - with the prediction of community homes and the strengthening of territorial services. Prevention, diagnosis and care paths must be ensured for each person, with an approach based on gender difference in all stages and environments of life, therefore also with an application attitude of gender medicine. Obviously in the homes of the health and community will have to be present professionals competent in the matter, who will have to requalify their formation. We have all said that training is fundamental and important. I believe that the improvement of the national health system also goes through the reorganization of all professionals, such as community nurses, social and health workers and all those employed in those professions that will also be used for territorial services that will be expanded. Community homes will have to pay attention to the proximity and primary needs of the citizen. In the same way, the network of consultors will have to be expanded. In order to combat the phenomenon of birth, we need services for pregnant women. Another issue that is no less important and on which we must keep our attention high is the critical issues that have emerged, such as the psychological health of people, put to a very hard test by lockdowns, and of the young people who have been teaching at a distance. It is therefore necessary to include important figures, such as the psychologist of primary care, who take care of the inconveniences that citizens live in. I believe that in order to ensure the development and strengthening of the health system these are the projects that will have to be planned in the near future. At the same time, innovation must be taken into account, with the increase in digitalisation (the famous telemedicine), which we know is an important challenge for Italy which, unfortunately, with reference to the digitization index of the economy in the 28 European countries, is in 25th place. We must also work very hard on this. Another important aspect is the new professionals. Scholarships for residents and registrations for future nurses need to be increased. We must also insist on this in order to bring design and strengthen our national health system. I believe that the most important challenge, however, is to bring these projects down on the territory in a concrete way, so that they can really change the current situation even of unevenness. I am referring to what we are also seeing with vaccinations, i.e. the defiance that Title V of the Constitution is bringing and that it will certainly have to be revised to improve the conditions of the whole national health system. If we look at the table of community houses, we realize that some regions have 124, while others have not one. The biggest challenge is therefore to improve the realities that already exist and to grow new ones where there is nothing. This is an important challenge. We also need to take work and governance into account, establishing who to give competences to and providing for the different bodies involved to work together. This is really important and it is an issue to which we will pay attention, in the knowledge that the process will not be short and should be monitored. Finally, the most important challenge is to give concrete and full implementation to Article 32 of the Constitution, with the promotion and improvement of a universal health system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u133	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u134	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that with Minister Hope's order on travel abroad, we are a bit of a comedian. I say this in this House because we are aware that we continue to "tump." What I am going to say today about the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is known in freedom. I'll look into the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, here in Italy we have a potential hole in derivatives of 250 billion, 181 of which to the detriment of the banks, 15 of the companies and 32 of the public administration. So the 209 or 223 of the recovery fund is not enough. We have the risk of explosion of the non-performing loan (NPL) which becomes such after nine months of ineligibility and for which the 6a President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:). A statement from the German Constitutional Court a few days ago says that the Treaties do not allow Europe to get into debt. Can Europe issue debt without control from the German Parliament? This has blocked everything, as far as Germany is concerned. You know, they want to lead them, and they do. This statement is a serious matter, compared to what is stated. How is Europe financed? When it is decided to issue these 750 billion securities, going to demand them from the market, Europe will be financed by the intervention of international banks and financial institutions, that is, with our money we will finance ourselves. At this point, we will have the problem of paying attention to the fact that the 2,000 billion deposits that are in the banks and that this year have increased, at zero rate - something we will regret - are not somehow expropriated or considered as such to finance the system. These are not random considerations, these are the real problems. I have not yet quite understood - and I will be violent about voting - the difference between loans and subsidies of 209 billion. It has not yet been explained well, or rather it has been explained in some documents, but let us pretend nothing: there is no subsidy in Europe, there is no help. It's all to be returned. There are these conditionalitys: growth must be achieved, jobs must be created and the transition made green and digital; these are desirable and acceptable. Then there are the cross-cutting priorities: gender equality, which I hear so much about in this House, young people and the South. These are issues we have always been talking about, but we still do not have the recipe to ensure that young people do not go abroad. On gender equality, the women I know aren't interested, because 50% of the magistrates, lawyers and accountants are women and numbers are growing, so we're bouncing with things that don't make sense and they're almost jokes, in my opinion. With regard to reforms, we are being asked for justice, which must be done. I hope that this House will do so, starting with the separation of judges' careers. Then there is the tax reform on which we have held numerous hearings and which is on a good track. As for the fight against evasion, who doesn't? Finally, there are environmental taxation and the labour market. Plus, if we get them, they'll give them to us in tranches. We will have them with some difficulty, but we must choose the works. There are lists. There is little quota for local authorities. There are 15 billion for the protection of the territory and water resources and the aqueducts of all Italy, unfortunately, are often colabrodo, even if not everywhere. The figures allocated for road maintenance are ridiculous. I would point out that the provincial roads have been forgotten. I should like to end by recalling what President Draghi said about the famous article in the 'Finncial Times' to be optimistic, a year ago: we must do together in Europe what we can do, but we must first have a strategy as a country. It is not necessary to undermine aid to families and businesses, but at the same time it is necessary to create incentives for investment, because only the latter can create jobs and therefore growth and jobs are also created with investments in sectors that do not necessarily generate traditional factories. Investments on sustainability are equally productive and job creators. We must implement the old who is good and open to the new, with simplification and justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u135	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u136	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this document, as we all know, counts on 311 billion of resources made available by the European Union for Italy. In particular, of the €7.5 billion that will be paid at European level through the rural development programme, Italy will go about 3.2, of which 2.5 will be attributable to the project line "Sustainable agriculture" as part of the mission "Green Revolution and ecological transition". It is clear that today it is necessary to work for the role of agriculture to be recognised as fundamental and strategic, to become central in the implementation policies of the recovery plan and thus to obtain the sector resources adapted to the value it expresses in Italy. But let's see what we're talking about. There are about 750,000 farms and farmers involved in this project, which in Italy cultivate 12 million hectares of land. The average size per farm is less than 15 hectares; but we compare ourselves with the neighbors of Oltralpe (France), with 58 hectares per farm, and with Germany, where we have over 55. This is to say that, when we write a document, the idea of defending Italian agricultural production is different from that of defending European agriculture, because we are talking about size, production capacity and above all about different qualities and sensitivities. Then we know that the food supply chain in Italy is worth those famous 540 billion, 25% of GDP, with a fundamental importance. The issue of pollution is a driving force in this document and, from a visionary point of view, it is sometimes very complicated. On this issue too, we are doing much better in agriculture than in France and Germany. Italian farmers emit half the methane and nitrogen oxides of their transalpine colleagues into the atmosphere. Evidently, when it comes to pollution, property fragmentation helps in this respect. In the Committee on Agriculture, we shared some important documents, in particular on mission 1, where we said that we should help our farmers by setting up a revolving fund at Ismea, in order to support access to the credit of agricultural holdings for investments in innovation and for the appropriations aimed at strengthening industrial policy in the supply chain, especially with regard to PDOs and PGIs, since they are 305 specialities at national level, also recognised at Community level, as well as 415 DOCG of wines, worth more than EUR 7 billion. That is what we are talking about; in fact, we risk making a cauldron of words and not being able to understand what we are talking about. In the context of mission 2, we called for the promotion of agricultural biomethane; it is a very important sustainability and renewable energy, through the conversion of old plants. We have called for incentives for the renewal of machinery and means of circulation, as well as for irrigation conversion and modernisation of the network. In some regions only 1% of the water falling from the sky can be reused for irrigation; it is not contained or retained and in the summer months there are great difficulties. This must be a clear vision for the future. We have asked for the recognition of the strategicity of the supply chains, with particular regard to zootechnics, flora and beekeeping, which is very important in our country. For the livestock sector, measures must be taken to increase the profitability of individual farms and farmers. We have just audited the Anaborapi in the Agriculture Commission (just a few minutes ago); we can see the difficulty of a sector where there is no final value of the product that is produced and worked constantly. A process of reform of the de-taxation of companies working in the timber industry is also needed. As part of mission 3, "Infrastructures for sustainable mobility," we asked for some, including port mobility. We called for the end of the isolation of entire territories. I come from a completely isolated province - they call it the third island of Italy that of Cuneo. Infrastructures are fundamental, such as logistics, especially for processing companies. On this subject, Mr President, I would like to say that we also need to deal with greater flexibility in the labour market and a review of the rules on occasional benefits, which simplify procedures in the use of the instrument. Looking precisely at the challenges launched by agriculture and the green new deal plan, it is essential to consider, at the heart of the important process of renewal of the sector, the figure of the farmer, with its constant presence on the territory, in which it is strongly rooted. This makes this figure very important for agriculture, for the environment and for the territory, especially because it is the first and absolute guardian of it. We must devote to agriculture - and have the opportunity to do so - a clear and important message, understood as the maximum expression of that privileged relationship that the farmer - of any European country, but above all I am referring to the Italian one - establishes, thanks to his work, with the land that hosts him. For this reason, we would like it to be dedicated to this figure, but also to the whole sector, a national day of agriculture. First of all, Mr President, Italian farmers, always. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u137	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u138	Mr President, representatives of the Government, senators and fellow senators, we will remember these years as the hardest in our recent history. This terrible virus has caused nearly three million deaths worldwide, of which 107,000 are our fellow citizens. The economic rate for households and businesses is also high, due to the heavy consequences it has brought with it on employment, the productive fabric and economic and social cohesion. Major resources were needed to support income and employment and to strengthen public health. During 2020, forms of support amounting to 110 billion, corresponding to 6.6 percent of national GDP, were introduced. Faced with such an event, however, these extraordinary numbers are not enough to stem the crisis and promote recovery. We needed economic policy cooperation from the European Union. We are pleased with this change, because it represented a real change of pace for the European Union in its role as promoter of cohesion policies and social economy. In this perspective, the previous Government has worked and achieved great results to cope with the economic and social repercussions of the pandemic from Covid-19, so much so that we know that Italy will be the first beneficiary in terms of resources for the extraordinary plan Next generation EU and this we owe to the great work that President Conte has done in Europe. [[Applause]] The huge resources allocated to this purpose are an opportunity and, together, a huge responsibility. We absolutely cannot waste the opportunity to radically change this country, which, at European level, was the first to be hit, and even harder. We have been forced to make personal, social and economic sacrifices to protect public health and to avoid even worse damage. The heavy impact of the pandemic has particularly affected the tourism sector and its related activities, completely removing the turnover. The European Recovery and Resilience Plan puts a total sum of 225 billion at stake; in synergy with the use of other European resources, they can reach over 310 billion. Looking at the proposal of the PNRR in the Commission, on the aspects which are primarily responsible for tourism, there are some weaknesses which, in Parliament's examination, require detailed and improved information. Our country is, without any doubt, one of the most attractive European and world tourist destinations for its climatic, naturalistic, socio-cultural, archaeological, thermal and food and wine conditions. In view of these unique potentials, however, it presents in general a tourist organization and above all receptive not to the height of such a heritage, therefore not able to produce the possible wealth. If in times of prepandemia the turnover of our tourism was around 13% of the national GDP, in case of a qualitative leap in the sector we could even double the percentages. The interventions within component 3 of mission 1 are dedicated to the theme of tourism and culture and provide for the use of a total of 8 billion euros. Increasing the share of investments aimed at relaunching tourism enterprises, enhancing their competitiveness at international level, is a priority. As a result, these resources must be used to fill the digital gap that, as in all sectors of our country, is still very wide, especially in those of tourism and culture. From the green and sustainable point of view of the new policies launched at national and European level, including within the Italian tourist heritage, incentives should be extended for the restructuring, safety and energy redevelopment of the structures of the tourism sector. What is required is the extension of the 110% superbonus measure also to the buildings they host, for an improvement of tourist accommodation facilities and activities of tourism services in a sustainable way. [[Applause]] There is another sector that requires more attention, that of thermal tourism, which is of fundamental importance: in addition to taking into account the potential that it can express, mainly tourism, we must also consider what it represents from the health point of view. Our country could live on tourism and culture. A meticulous and effective project of revival in these sectors will represent a flywheel for the entire Italian economy in the post-Covid-19 era. To emerge from this crisis and make Italy a protagonist in the European and world scene, for the future of the new generations, we need a project that is first and foremost courageous, clear and shared and that allows our country to restart and recover the lost ground during the period of the pandemic; we need to turn the page of respect past in order to have a modern, avant-garde, green, efficient, safe and sustainable country. Good job. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u139	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u140	Mr President, I believe that the semi-empty House is a confirmation of the futility of this Senate sitting, which is discussing a National Recovery and Resilience Plan which will certainly not be what will be presented to the European authorities next 30 April in Brussels. I believe that this must make the citizens, the Italians, of every political line and of every side reflect. We are here to discuss a PNRR that has been presented to us for months as something wonderful, a Marshall plan of our time, of the third millennium; a National Plan of over 200 billion euros (206, to be precise). However, I would like to remind my fellow Members who have the pleasure of listening to me and the citizens who will want to follow that this Parliament has already prepared in this last year about EUR 180 billion of budgetary deviation. In fact, therefore, this country has already spent the amount of the PNRR, In debt. And what are the results? They were a total absence of concrete answers on the subject of transport, that we all know how much weight on the transmission of the virus; an absence of answers on the school, with our children, our boys still at home in distance teaching; a vaccination campaign that the Count government did not know not say to complete, but neither to begin. Let us look at the British neighbours, outside Europe, who have really immunised their population, while we are still, together with the other European countries, unfortunately only our elderly (not at all). We haven't given answers in terms of restors before and backups now, as we will say in the next few days. The only answer we gave with the 180 billion was in terms of lockdown, today and a year ago; nothing has changed. The answers to the entrepreneurs, traders and workers whom these majorities have closed down and who then make fun of 1, 1, 5 or 2 percent of promised support have not changed. Mr President, we are discussing a PNRR which is nothing more than the one transmitted by the Count's Government on 12 January and which dropped it. Well, today we are actually here to reason on a National Recovery and Resilience Plan that responds to a Government that has fallen precisely because of it and because of it. You think that respect has Parliament today. So, Mr President, where will the work of the Commissions end? It is a work which I acknowledge to our parliamentary committees and, in particular, to the Finance Committee, of which I am a member, that I have done very seriously. I would hope that at least the final plan to be delivered to Brussels will come to Parliament first. We repeat this as Brothers of Italy in a loud voice: we want the final plan to be examined by Parliament and the parliamentary committees, before going to Brussels, and we hope that it will contain references to the opinions of the Commissions. As far as we are concerned, we are pleased to have seen the proposals of Brothers of Italy incorporated in the opinion of the Finance Committee, which I quote in a nutshell: the issue of digitalisation in the field of tax reform; the terms of interoperability of databases; the digital platform for the transfer of tax credits, which is also at the heart of our draft law which lies in the Senate; simplification; tax evasion, mainly aimed at multinational companies and, therefore, electronic commerce, and the use of tax leverage to encourage the arrival of wealth and investment. We have had the honour to see our proposals on tax reform accepted in the opinion of the Finance Committee. We hope that at least in the final PNRR, what will be presented in Europe, the issues of tax reform will be adequately reflected. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u141	Senator De Bertoldi, the conclusions of your speech have restored the role that you had initially taken from Parliament, and we are delighted about that. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u142	Mr President, the most serious thing that can happen to an idea is that it becomes a brand: it happens when certain ideas push, because compelling to the point that it can no longer be ignored; then, they are stolen precisely by the most obstinate detractors, in a sort of misappropriation, for opposing purposes. It is a very well described strategy in Sun Tzu's art of war: When the enemy seeks advantage, he throws the bait to deceive him and then goes on to say that the skilful leader does not follow a preset pattern and does not maintain an immutable form, but changes his tactics by adapting to the enemy. When this happens with ecology, we talk about greenwashing. This is exactly the risk that we are running today, that we have come to the need, no longer derogable, to implement a true ecological transition, that we pass from the current model of development, endless in a finite world, to a circular and balanced, to overcome and overturn the first, that pushes on the planet with an unsustainable ecological imprint, that - as studies tell us - requires the resources of at least two planets like ours and that will lead us in the very short time to the destruction of our own habitats. The health crisis is a consequence of the environmental imbalance, because a sick world can only generate sick societies and a sick society generates sick social and economic systems and unable to give adequate answers to everyone. An environmental and socio-economic disaster that already affects many, but that will affect more and more parts of the world's population: many, many, many people, but - let's face it - not all. Many lands will be submerged, others will be dried up and will have to be abandoned for the climate and drought; some may freeze, the water will be less and less and more people will have no access to it. The ability to feed will decrease and fewer and fewer people can be fed. The pandemics will become structural and endemic and only a few high-GDP industrialized countries will be able to equip themselves to deal with and live with them, with vaccines that are not for everyone. There will no longer be a place for everyone on earth and there are those on this figure who are building a hypothesis of future society for a few. The risk is that the proponents of the current production model disguise themselves as champions of change so that nothing changes and none of the global financial interests that supports it are really questioned and damaged, making sure that this brand draws new profits and future profits. The risk is that greenwashing, mystification and propaganda are the weapons with which we will try dangerously to deal with climate change. We must take note of this: climate change and ecology is a class struggle. It is necessary for those on the other side of the barricade to compact themselves, unite and play this game to the end to win it. In order to do so it is necessary to keep in mind that only ecological justice can give us social justice and vice versa. The ecological battle is a battle for rights, fairness, equalization and inclusion. It is the battle for a more just world for all. Finally, but not least, Mr President, we cannot ignore the need for this process to be guided by the female within each of us. The change we are talking about will have to be systemic and cyclical, holistic and inclusive of all parts and relationships. It cannot be an easy passage, governed only by market opportunities and new production chains, which will also be necessary. However, in order to move from the current model of development, based on the competitiveness and supremacy of the strongest, to a circular and continuous, free of waste, based on cooperation, inclusion and symbiosis, we will need a revolution, first of all cultural, that we cannot implement without bringing women back to the centre of the process. We are talking about something more than equal opportunities or a fair number of women in decision-making and leadership places. Women are naturally prone to systemic and resilient thinking, as well as our society will have to learn to be in the near future. Systemic thinking is the mirror of our reality, increasingly complex and increasingly difficult to keep in balance, in a reciprocity of causes and effects, losses and costs. It is necessary to adopt piano missions assessing actions, choices and projects in a comprehensive, systemic and prospective relationship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u143	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u144	Mr President, it is well known to the House that, among the six missions of the Plan, the one which has special attention from the European Union, so also for the transposition of interventions in our country, is precisely that of the green revolution and ecological transition. According to the European Union, at least 37% of the resources, of the total funds, must be available to this matter. Mr President, we have discussed very thoroughly and in detail, both in this House during the past few months and in the Commissions, what we should do in this direction. We did so, of course very analytically, also in the Commission territory, environment, environmental goods, both in the basic address, which we transmitted to the Government at the end of last year, and in the work of the past weeks, with the comments for the opinion to the Government on the PNRR. In this case, we have drawn up a document of about twenty pages, which goes precisely to detail, in a very analytical way, the new investment lines in this sector. To sum up, I can mention the titles, such as sustainable agriculture, the circular economy, the whole field of renewable energy and therefore the reduction of CO2 and greenhouse gases, surpassing coal, oil and all derivatives. Then there is the big investment plan on hydrogen, and you know that there is a great deal of discussion, at national and international level, about which hydrogen, blue or green, and we have also deepened this issue. Then there are the theme of sustainable mobility, also local, and that of energy redevelopment and renovation of buildings. In our country, three quarters of the buildings are G-class, which is the worst. According to scientific estimates, every year there is an extra cost of about EUR 20 billion for the waste related to the heating and cooling of these buildings and we are talking only about those of private residence: even worse we are put in the public sector. Then there are the themes of urban regeneration, soil protection and water resources. While we are talking, in 2021 we will find ourselves in the paradoxical situation of not being able to retrain cities and urban centers, which are full of black holes, and at the same time we continue to expand the construction and consumption of virgin soil. In 2020 we consumed as much virgin soil as the entire city of Bologna is extended. This does not only happen in the South: certainly the Lombard-Veneto area is in first place, but this happens in all the regions of our country. Mr President, why, then, is there all this commitment to this great acceleration on the part of the European Union? Certainly because, thanks to God, finally, at national and international level, the idea has developed that our planet is a finite resource and that, consequently, the theme of the state of environmental and climate emergency arises. In this very Chamber, on 9 June last year we voted on the motion on the state of emergency, aware that the resource is over and we are putting our planet in great difficulty. It is true that, as some say, the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere has been even worse than today, but this has never happened during civilization and man's presence. The rise of one and a half degrees compared to the period prior to the industrial revolution and, above all, the possibility - indeed, the drama - of an increase of up to 3 degrees of the average temperature are catastrophic events. This is catastrophic especially for our country, which from the orographic point of view is the most exposed in Europe, since we have 80% of the landslides and landslides that occur in the 27 European countries and we have thousands of kilometers of coast. To give an example, in Venice, my city, in these hundred years the medium sea is 50 cm taller: 24 cm for the subsidenza, caused by the emungement of the aquifers, and 26 cm because the medium sea rises. If we combine this with the disastrous phenomena linked to climate change and therefore tropical ones in the Mediterranean and the Adriatic, we realize why the cataclysms are going on. The phenomenon, however, is structural and not cyclical and this awareness, developed especially in the 1970s, with the great acceleration of the Rio Conference in 1992 and with the Treaty of Paris in 2015 and so on, became a common heritage. It is not only that, however: the European Union and our Government have realised that the direction of development must be linked to the ecological transition, because, if we do this, not only do we safeguard the Planet and the environment, but we create the conditions to have investments linked to the future that create well-being and jobs and that can distribute wealth. Last Friday I presented in an important Italian company the first 100% recycled PET bottle, thanks to our amendment voted and then included in our regulatory system. It was not possible, as is known, but today we do and we presented the first bottle. The president of this very important company answered the questions of journalists regarding the cost of the operation saying that it costs nothing, because sustainability is a friend of development and income. This is the great cultural challenge that we must take forward. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention the great responsibility for young people: the PNRR, as well as the recovery fund, is on their shoulders. We have a great responsibility to work in such a way that at least the investments we put at their disposal are destined to create the conditions for a sustainable and prosperous future, not only for us, but also for them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u145	Senator Bossi Simone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u146	Mr President, I do not hide my objective difficulty in intervening today, because I come from a land, the Cremonese, struck in the heart and in the affections of this pandemic. For this very reason, my interest in this Plan has always been high and full of expectations. I feel this responsibility on my shoulders as if it were a form of respect for those who have lost everything: relatives, friends, work. Today we are talking about almost EUR 200 billion: the new Marshall plan of the century has been defined several times by the media. That is precisely why, Mr President, I would like to share with you and the senators present in this House a simple reflection of my own: 180 billion budget deviations burned in a year, made at jumps and hiccups of 30-40 billion at a time; crumbs of 600 euros to some and others not even those; forgotten categories, as well as entire chains, gymnasiums, associations and small businesses. I could go ahead and quote thousands, but here's the thing: 180 billion in a year we didn't even consider them as a great opportunity, because it was our money, while 198 billion in five years we consider them the Marshall plan. I think that 180 billion was our Marshall plan, and I would like to say something to the senator who preceded me. I will be allowed to say that a rather bizarre nation cannot fail to consider this, as well as - and it has not finished the surgery, in my opinion, saying that during the pandemic there were those who ran those 180 billion - it cannot fail to consider the fact that we were simple extras - I remember - while the actors of that plan were others and we could do nothing but try to put the boat back on its course. Mr President, I have many flaws, but sincerity and honesty, at least as far as I am concerned, I think it is essential to pass them on to our children. I have therefore taken to heart the work on the recovery fund from the first day, facing every debate with the utmost seriousness and willingness to dialogue and confrontation. I did it without the interests of the shop, while I was in the minority months ago, when the whole route began, I continued to work with the same tenacity and stubbornness. Unlike those 180 billion euros thrown out of Italy, I would like these other resources to be spent with criterion and in a correct way; we owe it to all those who have suffered and who are suffering from this pandemic, which seems to me not to end anymore. Politics, we know, is the art of mediating and changing things, and it always does so in its own way; sometimes I too find it difficult to understand how it succeeds. However, it is always difficult for politics to change people like me: it is a kind of hate-love. I was the first to denounce the lack, if not null, of Parliament's involvement in the Commission. I was the first to raise my voice on Parliament's lack of ability to get into the substance of the Plan. And I still remember those angry smiles of former ministers at my words and I'm not talking about prehistory, but just a few months ago. I was the first to say that the Plan had to be centered not on the Mezzogiorno, but on the whole of Italy, because the pandemic struck to death starting its descent right from my land and then afterwards hungry the whole country. Let's never forget this. This is no longer the time for divisions: it is time to start our country together. You do not know or even imagine how much I would have liked to have been here today with a framework of clear commitments and investments, to be voted with pride, to be shown to the nation. How much I would have liked to have in my hands a plan of investments that would say black on white to the Italians, to the whole Italy, from the Valle d'Aosta to Sicily, what are the projects, where they develop, such as for the Center, for the North, like for the South; what will be the economic repercussions; what will be the cost-benefit analyses; how will we face the conditionality. Today we do not have to present and share all this. We audit almost 300 people, associations, ministers, professors, committees. We have not spared ourselves on anything, and I thank Mr Stefano, the whole Commission and the political forces who took part, at a very difficult time for everyone, in red areas, in meetings in presence and at a distance. I would like to make my contribution to this Plan. It is my political, civic and moral duty. I don't want to, and I can't back out, because I don't think it's right. Politics must take responsibility and sometimes make difficult choices. Today is for me one of those days of difficult choices: I will have to express myself and I will have to direct my decisions on trust to an Investment Plan which, for a maximum of almost 200 billion, will be drawn up by technical offices; in essence, it will be almost totally redone by the Ministries; it will not be drawn up - as is to be believed - by this Parliament, which has not even seen it and will not see it until the last useful day before going to Brussels to be presented, but which is taking its paternity responsibly in fact. It would hurt me, Mr President, to discover one day that our children are in a position to pay for the strategic choice that a technician made, because that blessed time to work differently unfortunately was not there and never there. I understand, on the other hand, the difficulties of the new government to face in thirty days a job that, at least, had to last eight or nine months. I understand and see a job, the previous recovery plan, totally wrong, started in the birth in the wrong way, underestimated and inevitably left in the hands of bureaucrats who are trying to rewrite it. I am morally obliged to vote on the majority motion for a resolution precisely because of the responsibility speech I made earlier, but I cannot allow the country to lose even a single penny of that Investment Plan. I just hope that those offices have worked and worked in the last thirty days with the same tenacity and will that I have put in it and put the Commission in it. We have delivered 73 pages of joint report, more annexes and detailed Commission reports. This is a huge amount of work; I hope that the Government will make good use of it and take into account the reports we have sent. As Saint Augustine said, hope has two beautiful children, the indignation and courage: the indignation at the reality of things and the courage to change them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u147	She's enlisted to speak Senator Stable. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u148	Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to certain aspects of the issue of health. We talked about strengthening the hospital network. I remember that in Italy, following the cuts of recent decades, we now have 3.1 beds per 1,000 inhabitants, while - according to data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development of 2018 - France has 5.9 among its neighbouring countries and Germany has 8, and therefore more than twice as much as ours. The pandemic, in addition to having highlighted the serious criticalities of our territorial medicine, has also literally overwhelmed - and is continuing to do so - our hospitals. However, having spent my entire working life as a doctor in the hospital, already in the previous years, every winter - I say this also from experience, and there is the testimony of our colleagues - the hospitals were overwhelmed by the flu epidemics: there was no longer a bed place and, therefore, there were long waits in the emergency room, sick in the stretcher, in the corridors, in the atriums, in every available space. I therefore ask that we also examine the number of beds, i.e. we evaluate a revision of Ministerial Decree No. 70 of 2015 that sets the standards regarding - if it has been mentioned - not only intensive therapies, but also ordinary and semi-intensive needs, which have a certain degree of flexibility and are very little represented in Italy, but to cope with any pandemics can be very important. In addition to the facilities, it is necessary to calculate the staff. Over the last decade in health care healthcare professionals in general have decreased by about 45,000 units. The Covid epidemic has required new recruitments - some 37,000. However, this staff remains largely precarious. So if we want to ensure continuity, safety and quality of care, we need to ensure that this staff is permanently part of the staff. I would like to stress another aspect of staffing. A worrying phenomenon - some colleagues have already mentioned it - is the fact that many operators, for whose training we spend, do not find the work in our National Health Service attractive and satisfactory, so they turn to the private and very often abroad. I believe that, in addition to thanks, every effort must be made to enhance this staff, through the improvement of working conditions, employment contracts, so that work in the Public Health Service returns to be attractive for it. One last very important aspect concerns waiting lists. We all know that in the Covid era, unfortunately, many performances (screening as outpatient visits, but the same surgeries) have been postponed and even, sometimes, it is not possible to program them. I'm talking about situations like, for example, prostate surgery - not cancer cases - so people are waiting months, even years, with discomfort and the risk of complications due to having to bring a bladder catheter to permanence. Here again we need intervention, planning in order to restore accessibility to care. So, let us welcome territorial medicine and its enhancement. We welcome the health care of the neighbourhood, but we also need to pay close attention to these aspects if we really want to be able to say 'never again' in the face of what has happened. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u149	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u150	Mr President, I believe that we all agree that if Italy does not solve the serious problems of justice, it will be very difficult to ensure a real economic recovery. We all know very well that investments, especially those from abroad, are linked to the efficiency and speed with which our judicial system will be able to respond to the demand for justice. Unfortunately, this is not the case today, and no reform - as Mr Cartabia acknowledged in his hearing last week in the Commission on justice - can solve the problems unless important resources are committed both in the organizational and human spheres. I'd like to talk to you about that. There are too few in this Plan of Resources for Justice. It is shameful that only 1% or slightly more of the entire recovery fund is expected for justice. What we must all urgently address today is the situation of the honorary judiciary. We have 5,000 highly specialized professionals, trained in years and years of work in the field, who we are treating as if they were the riders of justice, i.e. without rights, without care and pensions and exposed, without any protection, to the risk of contagion during the epidemic. We keep ignoring them. I believe that this is a disgrace to Parliament, the Government and the entire judicial system. [[Applause]] Those magistrates who have always done their duty have the right to be stabilised and contribute with their great professional capacity to economic recovery, helping the judicial system to ensure justice so as to make Italy attractive also for foreign investors. Another inescapable issue, which is not mentioned in the Plan under discussion today, is the reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Because of the shameful events that we all know, citizens have lost confidence in justice. It is necessary to put an end to the current plundering and to the commodity of the highest offices of the judiciary, by providing for a radical reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary that provides for a draw by lot, so-called temperate, so that those elected no longer respond in any way to the pressures and blackmails of the currents. It is also necessary to put an end to the revolving doors between politics and the judiciary, between the judiciary and politics. The magistrate who is running for political or administrative elections - whether elected or not - having made a choice of party cannot return to judicial functions, but must be placed out of place in the Ministries, constitutional bodies and embassies. It cannot return to justice in the courts, nor to perform requisitioning functions because citizens have the right to trust in the justice and impartiality of those who judge them. Finally, we must put our hands on the law which shamefully limits the civil liability of the magistrates. Even the magistrates, if they're wrong, have to pay. In a democratic and advanced society these privileges can no longer be accepted. If the Government has the courage to address these issues, Brothers of Italy, as a responsible and patriotic opposition, is willing to cooperate in the best interests of the judiciary. If you do not have this courage, we will always be here to denounce and press you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u151	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the period we are experiencing will be remembered as one of the hardest in recent history. The rapid succession of two financial crises and a global health emergency has had a major impact on employment, the productive fabric, the economic and social cohesion of all countries around the world. In this year and a half we have enhanced the response capabilities of the health system. We've learned how to modulate restrictions to cope with the virus. We are more structured in dealing with the emergency. Today, however, with this act we are called to clarify what the prospect must be. I recognise the words of the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen: it is not only about repairing and recovering the existing, but also about shaping a better way of living in the world of tomorrow. The historic task we are called upon to do is to build the European Union and Italy for the next generations. For Italy in particular, it is a matter of moving on from the past. Today we clearly point out that we cannot limit ourselves to the post-Covid recovery, but we must lay the foundations of Italy of the future, the Italy of our children, our grandchildren and great-grandchildren. In view of the concept of sustainable development, we must safeguard what has been built so far and exploit the many resources that have not been fully used so far. I am thinking of the Mezzogiorno of Italy and the regions with lower rates of development than the national ones. We need to create stable jobs, with structural investments in sustainable development projects that look to the future. We do not need much imagination to identify them: it is enough to enhance primary resources such as agricultural products, natural beauties, the great cultural heritage fruit of millennia of history and traditions. Among other things, these resources have the characteristic that cannot be relocated and therefore are available to attract foreign investments that in Italy are struggling to arrive, mainly because of the complexity of our bureaucratic system and the lack of legal certainty: issues that today must be addressed with courage and determination. Let me now, Mr President, speak of one of Italy's greatest resources: tourism. Italy is undoubtedly the preferred destination in the world. I who live abroad can say that there is great hunger for Italy in the world and, when the restrictions on international travel are removed, there will be a great mass of people who want to travel and visit our country too. I therefore think that we must set ourselves three objectives: the first is to safeguard the network of structures in the sector that has allowed Italy to be one of the most visited countries in the world; we must help accommodation facilities, tour operators and cultural institutions that are today among the most affected by the economic and financial crisis caused by the pandemic. The second objective is to intercept an increasing share of tourist flows from abroad and encourage them to extend their visit to Italy to beautiful and interesting places that up to now have not been part of the traditional tourist itineraries. I refer to the many villages, woods, beaches, archaeological sites that make our country unique in the world. Visitors should be directed towards small and medium-sized cities of art and regional tourist itineraries. The third objective is the promotion of Italy in the world. In general, Italy promotes itself, we do not need much imagination. Instead, we need to make known the small towns also of the hinterland, the typicality, the customs and customs typical of the places, the cultural events proper to those places. Compared to other nations we have a great advantage: 70 million Italian citizens and descendants of Italian citizens live in the world. This is a great resource that we need to exploit. They are our ambassadors in the world, strongly linked to their origins. They do not miss an opportunity to promote our beautiful country in the communities in which they live. They themselves represent a great resource of tourism: the so-called return tourism. There is so much desire of our children and grandchildren to come to Italy to rediscover the places of origin of their parents and grandparents. I therefore think that we must focus on a promotional campaign abroad following two directions: on the one hand, to aim for the dissemination of information through the press and the local media, published also in Italian; to the production of specific materials for tourists who want to discover new places; to the promotion of the territory through the many specific travel agencies, very often managed by our fellow countrymen. On the other hand, we need to invest in language and culture: investment and not spending. It is necessary to promote the teaching of the Italian language in local schools at all levels, from primary schools to universities; to produce educational and information material that can be used in language courses; to promote social tourism initiatives, cultural exchanges between schools and universities; to promote cultural initiatives that can have an impact in local societies and to remove obstacles to accessing Italian television programmes in streaming. In this investment we must involve the whole network of Italians abroad, consisting of the network of chambers of commerce, representative institutions, Italian-language media, tour operators. At the same time, however, we must invest in Italy, first of all to improve the internal and local road, which helps to reach villages and small towns that may seem isolated at times. It is necessary to build new accommodation facilities, promoting the birth of the so-called widespread and ecological hotel also in the historic centers, which could benefit from the financing of ecobonus. All this is possible if the energies and investments of local and national authorities (state, regions and local authorities) are combined. Our fellow citizens in the world, today as in the past, will be able to contribute to our economy with economic resources from abroad: let us make them the protagonists of this new rebirth of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u153	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u154	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Presidents and Members of Commissions 5a and 14a, who had to draw up the comments received from the other twelve Commissions in such a short time; the final analysis and synthesis of all the comments will have been of no small time. I would also like to thank the officials, who we often forget to thank for their decisive contribution. I have before me three documents on which I would like to spend the next few minutes of my speech, which are of interest to the issue of energy transition, and more precisely the analysis of the political direction that we will communicate through the resolutions that we will approve on the report of the Commissions meeting, on the main issues of hydrogen and energy communities. These three documents are the report itself, from which I extracted the passages in which reference is made to the policies on hydrogen and the energy communities; the last document of governmental origin (I am talking about the technical files relating to the PNRR in English, dated 11 March last) and the last statements of Minister Cingolani, who yesterday, during a digital event organized by "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore) has expressed his thoughts and considerations on the subject in question. First of all, I must say that the content of the report in these parts (energy transition, green hydrogen and energy communities) seems to me sufficiently comforting - I really see it with an optimistic approach - in the sense that attention is being paid to the issue and a willingness to identify the objectives to be achieved, such as, for example, reducing dependence on raw materials in terms of energy and diversifying sources of supply; reducing the cost of electricity and gas bills and so on. They are all objectives that can be shared. Among these, I would like to draw attention to the promotion of the role of collective self-consumption in condominiums and renewable energy communities, including for experimental purposes, pending the transposition of the Community RED II Directive. Now, while it is true that in the coming months we will probably fully transpose the Renewables Directive, it is also true that, fortunately, our Parliament has already adopted regulatory measures aimed at introducing the existing operation of energy communities and collective self-consumption. Unfortunately, these regulations are still unknown, even by technicians, because they were approved during the pandemic period and need further study. These possibilities, which already exist in our system, must rightly be strengthened and enhanced, as the report points out. Just as I like to see that the Government is invited to support the development of green hydrogen, that is, that produced from renewable sources, in a realistic perspective where the hydrogen produced from methane (the so-called blue hydrogen), that obviously cannot be banned and that we know well today to be 95% of the hydrogen produced from industrial processes, will have to be abandoned over time (it cannot be closed overnight). The important thing, the concept that Parliament reiterates here, is that the financial commitments relating to the enhancement of green hydrogen see the sums directed only for the development of that energy source, that is, hydrogen produced from renewable sources. In those data sheets I like to see that it also indicates a power target installed by electrolytes, for which is expected what is called a gigafactory. Welcome, as long as it is the result of national knowledge and professionalism, of course not letting such an ambitious goal remain in the availability of foreign societies, because it would be really a shame. There is a target of 5 gigawatts of installed power by 2030, which is not bad, considering that Europe identifies in 40 gigawatts total, by 2030, the power to be used for the production of hydrogen from renewable sources. What is perhaps missing is an intermediate objective, what Europe identifies in 2024, as 6 gigawatts. It would be good for Italy to identify that intermediate objective as well. Finally, Mr Cingolani undoubtedly moves along this line when he acknowledges that hydrogen is an international train from which we cannot be called out, in perspective, as an absolutely clean energy vector. Therefore, the end of this story - as the Minister himself reminds us and as indicated in the report - is that it will be necessary, in order to be able to run, to really take decisive action on simplification and permits, i.e. to have a regulatory and regulatory impact to ensure that... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr. President, I'm finishing. If that were possible, I would like to conclude my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u155	Sure, Senator Buccarella. I'd already given her an extra minute to let her finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u156	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Thank you, Mr President. On the simplification of permitting, it will be necessary to produce much more electricity from wind power plants - also those offshore - and from photovoltaic plants, with the hydrogen valleys provided in the current version of the PNRR, in order to achieve those ambitious objectives to which we must all strive. At the moment, I repeat that we will continue to monitor and coordinate with the Government so that these objectives are respected and, if possible, improved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u157	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u158	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, I am speaking on mission 2, green revolution and ecological transition. For the League it is important that, in addition to the main objective of climate neutrality, we aim at reducing the energy dependence of the country too high; how to reduce the cost of bills, the highest in Europe; how to reduce pollution of the Padano basin area; how to protect our national supply chains. The Plan, which the Conte Government has left us full of gaps, must also be revised in order to be consistent with the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan (PNIEC), which must also be updated with more challenging targets than the existing ones, which, moreover, we already have difficulties to achieve. On renewables, in Italy development is not good. The data published yesterday recorded, in 2020, a 35% decrease in installations compared to 2019: and it's not just the Covid-19's fault. From here to 2030 we should install new 5 gigawatts each year. Instead, we go at a snail speed of 20 percent lower than we should. DM RES1 auctions for incentives are a failure and the comparison with Spain is ruthless. If we wait for renewables, at this rate other than green hydrogen: we will not even be able to shut down coal-fired power stations in 2025. Above all, it is necessary to remove obstacles for those who want to invest, simplifying authorization procedures, also intervening on the procedures of EIA and on the action of prohibition carried out by the supervisors. On hydrogen, many say that Italy is ready for this challenge. I have so much perplexity. There are political forces, starting with the 5 Stars, who only want the green one, but this will only play an important role in the long term. Whether you like it or not, it will be gas that will play the role of accompanying the ecological transition. It is therefore tantalizing the opposition in place on which hydrogen to support shortly (green, blue, pink or grey). If there is awareness that hydrogen is important for decarbonisation, then, waiting for technology to mature, it is wrong to take a one-way choice. Today, green hydrogen is not competitive. You want to talk about hydrogen for the relaunch of Ilva: it would result in an excessive increase in the cost of steel, devastating from a competitive point of view compared to the Turkish-Chinese one. There is still no Italian strategy on this energy carrier: it has not yet been decided where to produce it, how to transport it, by whom and how to use it, since there is not yet a market. Moreover, for green hydrogen there is a shortage of electricity produced from renewable sources: we do not have the green kilowatts for the objectives of the PNIEC, let alone for hydrogen. Italy does not have the wind power of Germany and the nuclear power of France. For energy efficiency there is still so much to do and, on the superbonus, at the moment of super there are only the problems, the super problems, created by a measure as flagship as complicated, that it is not giving that shock expected from the building industry. There is absolutely a need for an extension, at least to 2023, otherwise no one is leaving, let alone the condominiums. There is absolutely a need for simplification, at least in order to solve the problem of building discrepancies. For sustainable mobility we cannot think only of the electric, which - I stress - also pollutes in its life cycle, starting with batteries, today for 70% Chinese. Not only are we sinking our automotive chain, already in crisis for the Covid-19, but the strong support to the purchase of an electric car, well of luxury, with bonuses that go beyond 10,000 euros, risks greatly increasing social inequalities. By the end of 2020, thanks to incentives, we put a little over 70,000 electric cars on the road. But do you really think that it is sustainable, as written in the PNIEC, to reach by 2030 the four million electric cars, in addition to the two million hybrid plug-ins? Where do we find EUR 60 billion in public money? So, in order to decarbonise the transport sector, pending hydrogen, it is necessary - and the PNIEC also says this - to support the development of biofuels and synthetic fuels, the use of LPG, gas and methane, which the European Commission included just the day before yesterday as fuels to power clean cars that can benefit from incentives, in addition to the latest generation diesel. Therefore, other than bans on internal combustion vehicles, even more so than low-emission vehicles. A question for those who always think in green. The Italian fleet at 2020 has 40 million cars; of these, 30 million are old, between euro 0 and euro 5. Does anyone care about their pollution, apart from bizarre proposals to impose a traffic ban? Are you kidding me with the crisis? Millions of owners don't have money to buy a new car, let alone an electric car. I shall start with the conclusions, Mr President, with three brief reflections. Let us put all pragmatism on the ground and let us forget expensive ideological, ineffective and anti-business drifts; otherwise we would fail with the Plan and waste so many billions. In the final drafting of the Plan, the Government should consider the indications contained in this balanced report, some of which are very important in the League, and involve Parliament in monitoring the state of progress, impacts and cost-benefit analyses. We know, then, that the Government is working on a new simplification decree: be careful not to make an omnibus. We cannot think at this stage of giving a blow to all the evils of bureaucracy, because we would risk making a hole in the water. We are therefore aiming for targeted reforms. Third and final reflection: let Europe be cautious in always wanting to make the first of the class. It is responsible for only 10% of CO2 emissions and too much decarbonisation policy is likely to bring our businesses to their knees further. On the contrary, China, which with 30% of CO2 is the largest polluter on the planet and will continue to be so, while we shut down coal-fired power stations, builds new ones. [[Applause]] Last year there were fifty of them, and they still have about 60 in the pipeline. They are interested in producing at low costs. Let us not, therefore, complain if Beijing will acquire more and more market shares in global trade and will strengthen, working more and more to shift the centre of gravity of world geopolitics towards itself. In conclusion, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Pesco and Mr Stefano. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u159	Senator Pisani Giuseppe is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u160	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary Sartore, ladies and gentlemen, the drafting of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan has put before us the important task of revising the National Health Service in order to better match the challenges that threaten our health; issues dealt with in the mission six Healths of the Plan, in whose component C1 there are planned interventions to strengthen the models of assistance to primary care. It is good and right that social and health care can take place, where possible, primarily at the home of the patient and it is necessary to create the conditions for this to happen homogeneously throughout the national territory, constituting a valid network assistance system, able to respond to the needs of fragile people and chronic patients, treated at home through the implementation of the integrated home care services, supported by the use of digital models for telemedicine and connected care solutions, fundamental for monitoring and diagnosis at a distance of patients. It is therefore right that the resources of the recovery fund are used to guarantee and enhance the H24 household performance, for three hundred and sixty-five days a year. [[Applause]] In this model of territorial assistance community homes and community hospitals will constitute other fundamental presidios in which will be given answer to the health needs of patients who do not need complex care such as hospital, but who still need health care and surveillance; structures therefore equipped with beds for chronic patients not self-sufficient, for patients discharged from hospitals that cannot return to home, for needs of rehabilitation and-or long-term care, or residential nuclei for palliative care and shelters of relief, for a complete take-over of patients suffering from advanced disease. Since the health of men cannot be separated from the health and quality of the environment, our living environment will also have to improve, in particular the cities, which have become sources of social imbalances and serious pollution in recent decades. They must be reinterpreted in terms of urban regeneration. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan, in line with the European objectives and the UN 2030 Agenda, also includes actions to make human settlements more inclusive, safe and sustainable with zero soil consumption. Another aspect of the territorial component C1 of the mission "Health" of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is also fundamental to improving our quality of life, is the one-health approach, which addresses in a unified vision the correlations between health and environment, well-being and climate. The establishment of the National System for Prevention of Health, Environment and Climate (Snpsa) is welcome, with the consequent implementing and implementing acts that will allow, through the implementation with the current National System for Environmental Protection, to manage the issue of health and quality of the environment, in synergy with the economic and social development of the country. In this context, it is hoped that immediate implementation will be given to the establishment, within the prevention departments of all national health companies, of operational environmental medicine units, consisting of medical and technical specialists able to adequately address health issues related to living environments. It is considered not to be further procrastinable to promote specific medical training through the financing of eight post-university specialization grants in the field of environmental medicine trusting in their implementation over time. Knowledge of our living environments, health prevention and environmental education must be the pillars of the reconstruction of the social state. We must think in concrete terms of the relationship between health and the environment and the world we are leaving to our future generations and consider that all that is being invested today in prevention will not only be a health gain tomorrow, but also a saving of finances for all the budget chapters of the State. In order to give concrete implementation and strength to these projects, we also consider it necessary and priority to restore the governance of health in the beehive of the exclusive legislative competence of the State, remembering moreover that in the matter of international prophylaxis the set-up of competences, since Articles 6 and 7 of Law n. 833 of 1978, establishing the National Health Service, is sanctioned by Article 117, second paragraph, letter q), of the Constitution, which entrusts to the exclusive competence of the State the care of the interests that emerge before a pandemic disease. It is no longer justifiable to maintain disparities and imbalances in the behaviour of the various Autonomous Regions and Provinces, such as those which have had to be assisted in recent months, because they involve serious compromises of fundamental rights of all citizens, even more serious if they affect the most fragile and defenceless categories. Moreover, the return to the centrality of the State of all health activities would certainly avoid the repetition of unpleasant and serious events, such as those occurred in recent days in the Region of Sicily, about which we hope the judiciary will shed light, identifying faults and responsibilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u161	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u162	Mr President, we believe that the role of Roma Capitale is also one of the issues that this great Plan will have to address. It is an ambitious plan, with in theory great means, which cannot neglect any issue. Forza Italia, in delivering its proposals to the President-in-Office of the Council, stressed the need to identify appropriate resources as well. There is little talk of capital in the documents that circulate; only at some point is the role of Rome caput mundi evoked - this term is used - for the protection of artistic and cultural heritage. Certainly Rome from this point of view represents one of the treasures of the planet and therefore it is right to mention the artistic and cultural heritage of the Capital of Italy. But - in our opinion - it is also necessary to take the opportunity to finally give Capital a definite role, because we need to relaunch its function. There is a very heavy debt that accompanies the life of this city and also weighs the lack of specific powers that every European capital has as the capital of the State. It's an ancient question: Rome, for the responsibilities it has, because it hosts Ministries, embassies, international offices and has burdens of all kinds, cannot be managed, for this reason as well as for all other aspects, with regulations similar to the prestigious, but last for inhabitants, Municipality of Italy. Forza Italia has therefore indicated to Parliament solutions regarding the financial aspects - there was a last opportunity in 2019 with an amendment to the growth decree that was rejected by the majority of the time - but we insist that different powers be given to Capital. The Berlusconi Government with a law of 2009 intervened in this regard, but in this legislature, as in other precedents, a constitutional bill was presented to amend Article 114 of the Constitution and to give Rome powers similar to those of a Region. On this Forza Italia insists, because a different setup is useful to the nation. Rome hosts and will host, when the world resumes its normal life, events of every importance and of every nature. It is also the capital of Christendom, as well as everything else. In 2025, which in organizational terms is tomorrow morning, there will be a Jubilee, which may also be important to relaunch the function of Capital and Italy, also for its moral significance. Rome needs infrastructure and sustainable mobility. The list of works that we have indicated in our proposed recovery plan is very long: from the railway ring to the financing of the metro D, to the metro A, to the metro B and to a new project of line E. Rome is lagging behind other international capitals as a metro network. The surface metroways must also be fully enhanced. Then there is the issue of urban regeneration, which is being discussed in the Senate with an absurd bill, which is currently under discussion in the Commission on land, environment, environmental goods, which must be rewritten. Urban regeneration means renovating buildings, rebuilding them, of course safeguarding the artistic and historical parts of the city centers. In Rome, incredibly, with an amendment in the decree simplification of the Giallorossi Government, zone A has paralyzed, which is not only the historical center in the strict sense, which has a historical, cultural and architectural value of value, but it is practically the whole city, preventing restructuring and regeneration, which are - yes - the ecological transition and not the demagogic one that is evoked. [[Applause]] This means energy saving, heating that can be managed differently and heat coats. Urban regeneration is a national and international theme very much felt in Rome and the Conte Government has paralysed the Capital. The PD also voted, along with others, Article 10 of the simplification decree, which is destructive, anti-ecological and demagogic. One cannot chant to the ecological and digital transition and oppose urban regeneration policies, which are real and real environmentalism, which also invests in the building heritage. That is what we will be hearing in the Commission on land, the environment and environmental goods, when the text must be completely rewritten, because it prevents the development, modernisation and protection of the environment. Rome must also be considered a Capital for innovation and technology. The Tiburtina area has represented, in past years, a pole of excellence and today needs to relaunch. We therefore believe that this issue should also be included in the recovery plan. We have also put this issue to the President-in-Office of the Council, who is certainly a European man par excellence, also for his work in recent years, appreciated by many, and he is also a Roman. It is obvious that this is not a bell tower: if Rome is the Capital, it must have a normative endowment and means that justify its role and project it in the interest of the whole nation. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, in conclusion, I wanted to dedicate my speech to this subject, hoping that the Plan will have greater strength. We have asked President Draghi and we ask him in this circulation of extensive and long documents, which we hope will have a practical outcome, alongside many other issues, such as justice, which other Members will discuss in their speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u163	Colleagues, when one minute is left at the end of the surgery, I call the senator who is intervening, so that we can settle, knowing that there is always one minute left at the end of the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u164	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u165	Mr President, having little time available, I will try to use it at least to put what we think is very important, at least for our party, namely the question of infrastructure. These days we have all had the opportunity to witness the economic disaster caused by the Suez Canal blockade. We have seen a devastating picture, with billionaire losses, that make us rethink a real, real and concrete economy, founded on work, on ingenuity and human sacrifice, so different from that daughter of high finance and interest on debt, which, unfortunately, too often affects our lives. I would start from that picture, from the importance of infrastructure, especially for a nation, like the Italian one, which has a very privileged position, as a natural port within the Mediterranean Sea. Let us imagine the whole question of our ports, from which for centuries the goods have left and arrived, which is losing and has lost a lot of space from this point of view. The ships today dock and depart in other ports, although Italy is an ideal platform in the center of the Mediterranean. We are losing, according to the latest data, something like EUR 70 billion a year because of infrastructure deficiencies. The question that the Brothers of Italy Group has put in all the Commissions is that it is not enough to have the money, but it is also necessary to have a vision to invest them well. Infrastructure is central to relaunching the nation. Let's imagine the possibility of developing internal transport, which in some regions are still in the nineteenth century; to continue in the direction of high speed; to connect our nation and above all to give the possibility to the Italian genius, our workers and our entrepreneurs to try out in enterprises that only we can realize. In Genoa we showed how Italians know how to react, building a bridge in no time. Now I believe that we are ready for the bridge over the Strait, another battle of the Brothers of Italy and the patriots who can surely restore lustre and relaunch our nation. I think we need to question this and test ourselves. There's a lot of money, the vast majority of which we have to pay back, so let's invest them well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u166	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u167	Mr President, today we are discussing the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience, a project presented on 15 January 2021, when there was still the Conte- bis Government and many senators sitting in this House were in opposition and have completely contested the establishment and the design of the Plan in all the Commissions. These same people today have revised their positions and are willing to accept this document, which has not yet reached its final edition in the Chambers. If it were final, it would perhaps be serious enough, because it still has many shortcomings and certainly the European Commission would not be able to welcome it. If this Plan, as it is structured today, were presented to the European Commission as it is, it would certainly be rejected with a number of comments. Unfortunately, this will only exacerbate the situation in Italy, which already has serious difficulties in spending the European funds that are allocated to the various Member States every seven years. I am referring to the 2014-2020 funds: Italy has spent only 38% of the resources received; of 44 billion in seven years, only 38 percent have been spent. Today, with a poor plan in many respects, do we think we can spend properly investing in development and growth for our country as much as 191 billion? I believe that this objective is unfortunately not within the reach of our country, as you know who has a minimum of common sense and discernment. Unfortunately, of the money from the recovery and residence facility, 122 billion euros are on loan while 68.9 billion will be lost. Italy was the only country that required the full share of recovery and residence facility (750 billion that Europe has made available). This certainly involves taking on a very serious responsibility, because all this will fall on the shoulders of our children and of the new generations, which, if these resources were not spent well, instead of being facilitated and obtaining that future that we all would like, risk being prevented from further development because of the structural reforms imposed by the European Union that would fall on welfare state, already endangered. Italy has a very low relationship between civil servants and citizens compared to the average of the countries of the Union and unfortunately this leads to difficulties, also due to the high average age of the state employees and their lack of training in planning. The average age is, in fact, around 50.7 years and this already makes it clear that there is a great difficulty in training to design and therefore to adapt to the visions of the investments that Europe makes for the development of the various countries. In addition, cuts have been made in all sectors of public administration, for example in the field of cultural goods, where there has been an extremely large reduction, from 25,000 to 19,000 employees, and where there are still unfinished and suspended competitions. This overall situation results in delays in bureaucracy which will inevitably lead to delays in the fulfilment of the six missions of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is linked to so many reforms, not only of the public administration, which have already been recommended by Europe for several years (since 2012) also regarding the ability to contain corruption and collusion. Unfortunately these situations do not give Italy the opportunity to spend all this amount within the six years planned. In the meantime it must be remembered that if the Plan is not approved, but should be returned with some observations, the first tranche of the total amount will arrive only after the Plan will be perfected, then you will lose more time. Moreover, at a time when the milestones and phase lines, which are not even indicated within the Plan, were not respected, unfortunately the disbursement of the funds will be interrupted. Therefore we risk to unnecessarily and seriously compromise the future of the next generations, exacerbating the debt situation of the country without an effective feedback on the development that we would like to achieve. Moreover, unfortunately, this country's inability to design is also reflected in the fact that our local authorities, partly staffed, have recycled several old projects trying to re-produce them through the Plan, but they absolutely cannot meet its overall objectives. For this reason, we in the component The alternative is, through motion for a resolution No 2, that we ask that a few lines of action be invested and identified in the six missions that have been defined within the Plan. We ask that the solution be reviewed to spend the entire sum (the 191 billion) and that we resize the sum of the 68 billion that can be paid at a loss, focusing above all on the infrastructures and intermodality of South Italy that are those that, unfortunately, can truly revive the development of the Country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u168	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity offered by the recovery plan to us in the Democratic Party has always seemed - without concessions to rhetoric - an extraordinary challenge to be grasped. Of course, an ambitious challenge - we must say this - certainly not simple, much less obvious. I want to start from a consideration: today Istat certifies that the level of well-being in our country is distributed less and less equally. In this pandemic we entered with strong inequalities between the levels of inclusion and those of exclusion, we then crossed it with heavy differences between those who were most guaranteed and those who least; we certainly come out with those gaps that have widened and deepened. We have said this, then, several times: it is no longer just a question of social justice; it is the prerequisites necessary for us to imagine the growth and development of our country. There is no restart without recovering the gaps that today prevent fair access to the National Health Service, too many young people from graduating in time and then being absorbed in the productive fabric, in the South, but not only. And then women, young and old, who, as we have said so many times - until we really get tired - are the real resource, even from the point of view of growth, which has remained poorly valued and recognized today. This is why it is certainly good that women, young people and the South have been chosen as the three cross-cutting axes of the Plan. However, they are not now the way to disperse these resources, precisely because, on the contrary, they must represent the multidimensional approach that represents the added value of this plan. It is essential, above all, in those areas - I am thinking of the Mezzogiorno, the inland areas - where, in short, there is a greater need for social cohesion and sustainability, where the supply and quality of all social infrastructures must be strengthened, starting obviously with kindergartens, but not only those, which represent an investment for women's employment, of course, but also for the educational journey of our own children. Today the gender gap in the labour market continues to widen. The causes are the most diverse. First among these, the sectorial ones, those precisely related to the pandemic because private services such as trade and tourism are services of predominantly female composition. And, then, here no hesitation; said the Colao plan, we repeat it: we must invest heavily in those sectors with high female presence, which among other things will be the first to restart definitely, once the pandemic is finished. But that's not all there is. Many women have left work because the reference social models still do not allow compatibility between private and work life. This is not just an effect of the pandemic. If the job is sacrificed today in order to cope with school closures, educational services, home service, the problem is not only of women; it is also of men, and it is in the absence of a sharing of the care burden between men and women, in the fact that the career paths of women are more discontinuous, precarious and vulnerable. The incentives are not enough to cope with this, least of all in rain. We need an important law on equal pay; we need above all a plan for long-term and skilled women's employment; we need an unprecedented investment in social infrastructure, but more than anything else - we repeat - we need an assessment of the impact and effectiveness of the policies adopted. That is why an observatory is needed for this purpose. Either we break this perverse spiral or all of Italy will find itself weaker on the rights side and even poorer on the growth side; the two things for us cannot be disjoined. The increase in women's employment - let us always remember - would have enormous benefits over GDP, but it would also have huge benefits for us above all over the social and relational autonomy of all those women who, for this reason too, are now exposed to harassment, abuse, violence at home and at the workplace. Autonomy and freedom are the only, true, effective antidotes to violence, we must always remember it. But if the recovery plan is a unique opportunity, in addition to money we need reforms, structural ones, together with the ability to manage projects in the execution phase but also in the regulation phase. We are in the middle of two transformations that the pandemic has accelerated and that I merely mention here: ecological and digital transition. Both are changing social models of sharing and work, as well as production and protection systems. Let us not deceive ourselves that it is enough to evoke change to see it achieved or to see a model of development that objectively showed all its limitations. Sustainability is central, but this does not mean that it is destined to be established. It is not at all obvious that the changes are in themselves fair, inclusive and democratic. For this reason, especially at work and welfare, we need a vision and a strategy for the future that are not limited to the coming years (those up to 2026, to say the least), but plan the next decades on territorial health, schools and services. The wound opened by Covid is really the deepest. So let's start again from universalist welfare and right to constant and quality training. We also need a large investment in the skills of workers, not going back on measures to support poverty, but reforming social shock absorbers and innovative active instruments and policies. There has been little or no talk of resources for the outskirts, urban regeneration and social housing. This is another area where ecological transition and inclusion are intertwined, but to do so properly, resources need to be compact and respond to a single direction. Finally, I would like to take something which Mr Franco reminded us of. The Plan is an extraordinary instrument which must operate alongside the ordinary instruments already envisaged, including the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds. On the other hand, it must be absolutely avoided that the additional expenditure for the investments of the Plan is offset downwards by less ordinary expenditure - this is fundamental - or that it translates into social infrastructures that are not supported by a lasting investment over time, even in the state budget. Allow me to make a final comment on the role of public administration. Proper management of projects should be ensured and efficient involvement of public administrations, including regional and local authorities, and trained and competent staff is needed. If this is to be translated into a plan of recruitment also to the South, as has been announced, it is necessary to move from a punctual verification of the needs and an update of the organic endowments of the agencies to which the new professionalisms will be destined. Italy has a great responsibility on itself. Today that the stakes are so high we have the opportunity to get out of the temptation to blame Europe for anything that does not go in our country, instead of going into the merits of options for our future. That is why we need, above all, political forces to be able to read our time, renewing ideas and priorities on which to invest. The Democratic Party will not fail to make its proposals heard and the will to make its contribution strong. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u170	Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope it is clear that today we are launching a plan of about EUR 200 billion which must serve to relaunch Italy as a whole, from North to South. This is an enormous amount of money that, if properly invested, can be an opportunity for the country to set up a new development system. However, it is necessary to be careful because the recovery fund could also become a huge waste and be completely useless if after the initial push generated by these funds will not follow a decided change of course compared to the current immobilism in which our nation spends. In just one year we have made budgetary deviations of around EUR 180 billion to deal with the pandemic. We had to do that, it is true, but it is equally true that several of those resources were wasted by President Conte because there was no planning. What is left, in fact, of this immense effort asked the Italians? A few thousand wheelchairs and little more. Italy needs a change of mind and we have a new possibility that must not be wasted. The recovery fund has strict rules. The poles of the immediate cantierabilità of the plans and the time limit of the intense activities that must be completed in five years have allowed to insert in the Plan only works that are actually and immediately useful. The drive to complete the TEN-T corridors is part of this approach, as well as the upgrading of the high-speed railway lines, the dredging of the ports, the investments for the safety of the main water infrastructure and the maintenance of the provincial roads of the Peninsula, especially in the inland areas. So we're probably about to get out of a dark period and we need to think about relaunching the country. We are a state with a strong tourist vocation and for this reason we need to work on infrastructure because we have to satisfy a clientele that is increasingly demanding. In this perspective we have indicated therefore the necessity to allocate resources for the support and the throw again of the airport field, in order to guarantee its competitiveness to international level: ports, airports and the intermodalità to access it are fundamental for all the system Italy. We must therefore give ourselves a new method of work: action must focus on the correct aims and the way in which they are achieved, which have a purpose and which are sensible and without preconceived ideologies. We need to be practical in order to achieve the objective quickly: concrete, in short. Europe finances works that have to be determined in five years: will these be Martians who have decided it, or do we have to ask ourselves why in Italy, in order to end an expropriation, they serve from two to ten years? Or we will have to ask ourselves whether it is normal that, if there is an appeal in the award of a tender, we should go for cards marked for five, six, seven or ten years. No, it's not normal, it's not normal at all. And let's not pretend we don't know what the large part of these cast gears is due to: it's due to the procurement code. That is why it is necessary to reform it and it is time to do so not because I say so, because Campari says so; we must do so because it would be stupid simply not to do so. We need to deduce bureaucratic burdens and simplify procedures. Do we want to remember that we created the Genoa model, that we got rid of the bureaucracy and found the work and efficiency? I just think we need to wake up. In the same way, we need to get rid of those ideologies that risk taking blind alleys into us and causing effects that are totally contrary to those we would rather have. I give two examples, the first of which concerns vehicle traffic: in Italy, our car park is one of the oldest in Western Europe: it is about twelve years old. In Sweden we are nine years and nine months old, in Germany we are nine years and five months old, in France and in Belgium we are nine years old and Denmark is eight years old and eight months old. But how are we going to renew it if we only give incentives for hybrid and electric vehicles? When will we understand that we must encourage the purchase of new, non-polluting vehicles, of course, regardless of the type of propulsion? The second point concerns motorways. It has been said that the new motorways generate more polluting traffic. But if the construction of a 60 km highway replaces a 125 km route, would we pollute more or less in your opinion? I say this because this is the real, existing case of the Tyrrhenian-Brenner, and if anyone never knew, now they know. In short, we must face the future in a pragmatic way. The method we are importing must be used from here on, also for the use of ordinary state funds. Capitals were released that had been committed to cover some of the works financed by the recovery fund and we asked that these capitals be re-used for the financing of new works that are not included in the Plan under consideration. After this terrible crisis, we will have to restart the world of work even with new public works, going to finance the big roads and infrastructure. We will be protagonists and responsible in the management of our funds. We must be an example for Europe. The League has the ambition to change the European Union for the better and it is good to have heard that our President-in-Office of the Council finally puts Italy and Italians at the heart of our political action. With pride and high-headedness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u172	She is registered to speak Senator Di Girolamo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u173	Mr President, it has been more than a year since the World Health Organization declared the state of pandemics and since Covid-19 came into our lives overpowering all those rules, actions, everyday gestures, habits and serenity that today seem to us only a distant memory. Covid has brought the world economy to its knees and Italy in Europe has been the first to face all the dramatic consequences that the virus carries behind it. It was at that time, last spring, that President Conte proposed to Europe a revolutionary concept of the instrument of aid in the form of shared debt, unthinkable until then for a European Union closer to finance than to citizens: the recovery fund, of which today we are discussing entering into the substance of the cards proposed by the previous Government. [[Applause]] Since the beginning of the pandemic in this House we have voted for six budget deviations, for a total of 165 million euros; we have also converted several decree-laws, all aimed at supporting citizens and, at the same time, at making the country stronger in the face of the great economic, social and health difficulties. We know that the pandemic has created a crisis second only to that of the post-war period and we have been forced to face problems that are constantly changing, absolutely new for us. Despite the efforts and efforts made, many critical issues remain and need further interventions. Italy, with almost 30% of the total amount allocated by the European Community, has the opportunity not only to emerge from the crisis, but to recover and compete for the top places among the most important countries in the world. Not only that. Italy has the opportunity to show the world that it is capable of facing every type of future crisis, remaining integrated and ready to react: a resilient country. As an exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars I can only be satisfied with the three strategic axes that characterize this proposal: digitalization, ecological transition and social inclusion have always been the pillars of the idea that we had for the development of our country. I have had the pleasure and the honour of being the rapporteur for the part of this 8th Plan. Commission, the Commission works public, and I believe that the digitisation of public administration, which will ensure a considerable simplification of bureaucracy, the innovation of the production system, the use of renewable energy sources for transport and industry and sustainable mobility, key themes of the Plan, are actions that will fly for the post-pandemic relaunch of the country. The reduction of bureaucratic burdens, the simplification of procurement procedures, the reform of administrative procedures to make the implementation of public works more effective and faster, the introduction of mechanisms for speeding up RFI and ANAS programme contracts, the simplification of procedures that strengthen existing supervisory and control mechanisms are measures that will certainly bring great results, continuing in fact the work already started by the decrees unblocks yards and simplifications. It is not conceivable, President, to talk about recovery and resilience by having a country that runs at two different speeds. The Mezzogiorno runs at a different speed than North Italy, as well as the inland areas compared to the coast. I am talking about poor, old and incomplete infrastructures, which limit the great potential that can be reached from a compact Italy instead. In the report presented today we find the strengthening of the main junctions of high speed and neighbouring territories, with particular attention to the internal areas, and the strengthening of the transport by sea for the islands, guaranteeing the regime of territorial continuity. A peninsula like Italy, that has always been a natural port of Europe, needs to valorize own ports, especially those of the Mezzogiorno, strengthening the ability to intercept the intercontinental traffics of the goods, and an efficient plan of intermodal system able to put them along the whole boot. This too, of course, has been recommended by the Commission to the Government. Environmental sustainability, President, is the cornerstone of all programming, because in an ecologically unsustainable world it is the survival of the same human race that is being called into question. Without ecological transition there are no other transitions to hold; we are the air we breathe, the food we eat, the water we drink. Even if we do not notice it, we are nature and, without a healthy environment, there is neither health, nor well-being, nor life. Outside this House there are the new generations who have long been protesting because their future has been stolen and we have to try to give it back to them. Today we are witnessing the green turning of an entire continent and the whole world is focused on ecological issues. The funds that the European Union wanted to devote to ecological transition are a sign of how central this aspect should be. Without sustainable mobility and without energy efficiency of buildings our cities will continue to be polluted and Italians will continue to get sick and die, even beyond the Covid. We are a country with a remarkable aesthetic and also qualitative property, but equally "attempted" and certainly not designed to optimize energy consumption. The same President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, on 22 February last, during the European Parliamentary Week, argued that the correct use of the money from the recovery fund is to engage them in the creation of new jobs, the same jobs lost during the pandemic, and made a clear reference to the building sector, in relation to the age of private housing. Many like me, in that moment, when they listened to that intervention, thought about the superbonus 110% measure and the need to extend its deadline to at least 2023, to ensure regeneration of particularly degraded urban areas and so on. [[Applause]] Today's news is that the superbonus has exceeded the first billion euros of works performed and secured. Italy and the Italians have always shown that they know how to react to every crisis and calamity suffered. Same thing they're doing now. The Italians are proving to be a resilient people and to all of them we must express our utmost respect. This document is the way to a financing that has no equal in the history of the country and will certainly help to drag us out of the crisis, but the unique opportunity this time we have is to make historical reforms, which the country has been waiting for for thirty years. So, Mr President, that this National Plan is really an instrument of reform, dotted with many useful works. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u174	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u175	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the two most important measures of this Plan are the ecological transition and the digital transition, especially because, if we think of the amount of resources draining, 57%, we immediately realize the importance of the two verticals, which, however, by permeating all sectors of the real economy, can also be found in the other four measures. I'll focus on digital for the short time I have available. If we look at the digital compass, the digital compass, about which President Draghi also spoke, there are three points that qualify this strategy: human capital and its constant maintenance. As I have said several times, young people will be able to change jobs ten times. Let's think about the new trades, which will have to face, not only the younger generations, but, in my opinion, also those who are not exactly fifty-nine, sixty years old, but who have been in the integration fund for a long time, who are from thirty to forty years old and who would be opportune to " re-skill " and " up-skilling " by assigning them a quantity of resources. Resources that have certainly accompanied all those who have lost their jobs (i.e. social shock absorbers and the Social Security Fund) but which would now also be accompanied, with active policies, by new trades. Digital infrastructure in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises and, I would add, in favour of SMEs, micro small and medium-sized enterprises, which is a uniform of the Italian production fabric. Today, precisely because of the small dimension, which was once considered a limit and a defect, especially in the process of internationalization, it represents something important and unique, because it is much more flexible, much more flexible and much more ready to change, clearly if helped by this digital infrastructure. Another point: the public administration that goes to the citizens and not the citizens that go to the public administration. Here is a real revolution to be faced. I believe that each of us is deeply concerned about this, because, before even introducing digital, it is essential and necessary to avoid a digital bomb. I have already used these terms several times in my speeches. A brief reflection on tourism, literally bent. Italian tourism and creative industry can represent the best of Made in Italy, a term of which we all fill our mouths. It is also present in this PNRR. Finally, with this digital infrastructure, we can internationalise that small and medium-sized enterprise. We can strongly believe in GDP growth, compared to the latest figure in 2019, very easily in the medium term (not even too long, because digital gives results quickly), of 3-4 points of GDP: it's not little, it's almost 50 billion euros. However, this aspect is not clearly outlined in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan; it would require a strategic model that strongly hybridizes the analogue, territorial and local economy, which enhances excellence, with the digital economy. It is precisely the digital infrastructure that must be spread throughout the territory and cannot be concentrated, according to the American model, because I do not think it is a suitable model. We must spread it all over the Peninsula through productive sectors: we must verticalize it for production sectors, which are flanked by digital hubs, with incubators-accelerators that serve to direct finance towards the most innovative activities, more deserving of being accelerated towards the market. In short, a new model of economy that hybridizes the private and the public. I realize that it is not easy to write, in a juniper of contractual rules, of authorization logic and bureaucratic rigidity, but it is an obligation, because we have seen that the large enterprises, those that Galbraith defined the technostructures, increasingly evolved, overwhelm the capacities of public bureaucracies and, in some cases, even of governments. The result is that more and more large groups are facing issues that have public implications, but do so without embankments. Let us think of the whole world of the private economy, the exploitation of data, the real oil of this economy, and the implications of digital public property and, therefore, the authentic interpretation of Article 117 (r) of our Constitution. In conclusion, but not as a matter of importance, I would like to focus on the Italian Agency for Artificial Intelligence. Mr Colao said that we must work together with France and Germany on a European technological sovereignty. Too bad that France and Germany have already identified their headquarters for national artificial intelligence agencies in Sophia-Antipolis and Saarbrücken, while Italy has not yet done so. We must not forget the plan of international relations which, in the phase of globalisation, are becoming increasingly important. From here come the last two considerations, which are two nerves discovered. On the one hand, the lack of strong coordination - which is fundamental, otherwise the digital one gets out of hand - between states, bureaucracy, businesses, universities, independent authorities and supranational bodies, which certainly constitute a wide range of subjects with great competence and authority, but which, I repeat, are not sufficiently coordinated; hence the inadequacy of governance and governance structures emerges. On the other hand, science and technology, which enter politics overpoweringly and require more and more skills. These skills inevitably shift everything towards so-called political elites. What is the rock to overcome? It is to avoid the detachment of the people from politics and, therefore, the emergence of populism, giving authority to politics, through the ability to understand the technical and scientific contents that, in these two fundamental transitions of the 21st century, require overpowering skills and professionalism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u176	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u177	Mr President, the whole political issue that we have to tackle is how to ensure that European investments in the Next Generation EU really mark a new beginning for Europe and Italy, in the midst of such a harsh crisis, which mercilessly exposes the mistakes made in the past, due to selfishness and cynicism of wrong policies. We have the duty and responsibility to think and build a new time, to re-launch our democracies and ideals, to give future and protagonism to the new generations, who are the most affected and who have lost confidence. The pandemic has not only widened the inequalities and inequalities that existed before and that we knew, but has created new ones, breaking up and increasing the lines of social fracture. There is a world that wants to be there, that wants to have a voice, there is a society to be rebuilt and, to do so, we need a vision, an idea of society, not enough buffer or emerging measures. There is a great demand for change and we must live up to it. There is a demand for the protagonism of too many who are today excluded from closed and inaccessible gaps and systems. We need a new season of rights and recognition. There are too many invisible workers today; I think of the self-employed and intermittent. It is not enough to give some subsidies and some assistance; we need rights to build development. The pandemic - we know - brings with it not only the economic crisis and the social crisis, but also a dramatic educational crisis in a country like ours where the social elevator is blocked because for too long our training system is not funded as it should be. Yet in the world, large countries are the ones that invest most in public education and innovation. Yet, in the time of the continuous technological revolution, more and more to have a job requires competence; the right to competence and the right to work are closely connected. For this reason we must relaunch the right to study as the engine of a new model of development because it is still today the most formidable instrument of emancipation in a country like ours, where there is an unbearable rate of abandonment and school dispersal, which affects especially the most disadvantaged children, where the number of university students, graduates and researchers is too low, where almost all the children of those who are already graduates are graduating, where for a boy who comes from a technical or professional institute it is very difficult to enter the university. These are walls that we have to knock down and to do so we need to increase the number of scholarships, expand the no tax area, strengthen the student welfare. In a country like ours - where those who teach at school or do research in universities or institutions are mortified by an unsustainable precariousness that is an enemy of the quality of teaching and of the quality of research, of the needs of students, of their demand for the future and of protagonism - investing in education, universities and public research, is not a battle of sector or category, but a great challenge for the role of our country in the world, for our future. For these reasons we must try to link the reconstruction plans, which we are discussing today, with structural reforms to relaunch the school of inclusion: more classes with fewer students, more spaces, more time school, more complex even in the hinterland and in difficult neighborhoods, where the lack of funding has taken them away, a new teaching, more teachers, more hours of support, more attention to the special educational needs of the most fragile children. This is why we need a reform of recruitment in schools, universities and research institutions because teachers and researchers are a great civil power that is indispensable to our country. [[Applause]] and defeating the precarious, valorizing them and giving them the recognition and role that is lacking today is fundamental for our country. Mr President, as for education, the rebirth of our country will pass from the culture that is social infrastructure, a great public good, capable of cohesion and competitiveness. In order to do so, we must finally put work at the centre, approve a statute for workers of culture, entertainment and performing arts, so that they can no longer stand on the margins. To do so, to bring out our talents, we should have rules that allow cultural and creative enterprises no longer to be at the mercy of a system that is too closed by dominant positions. President - and I conclude - culture, education and sport are a formidable multiplier, not only of economics, but of social ties, this especially in situations where it is more difficult to live and where we have to return to giving protagonism to our children, and they best represent the philosophy of the Next generation EU. That next generation EU that represents an idea of ransom for our Europe, which represents the idea of a Europe of solidarity. That Next generation EU that represents an idea of Italy, that of our Republic, in which every girl and every boy is put in a position to realize his own project of life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u178	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u179	Mr President, I will begin by thanking the Government which has assisted us during the work of the Commission and the two rapporteurs, Presidents, who have held together all the immense work that has been done. It actually lasted a long time, because it started in October 2020 with the guidelines and will end with this National Recovery and Resilience Plan that we will fire tomorrow with the resolutions. We all know what happened 14 months ago and how the onset of the health emergency completely upset our lives. We had to lower the observation point by force; there was fear, illness, many times unfortunately death and yet all our habits have changed. I synthesize, because I think what I'm about to say makes a lot of sense. Think of tourism: tourism means work, economy, means the whole chain, culture, sociality, sport, nature, health, food, excellence, happiness and dignity. It means the dignity of the work and the happiness of the people who benefit from it. So think about the incredibly devastating effects that have had the renunciation and stopping of this sector in the lives of people, businesses and the economy. With this Plan and these important resources we try to counter the crisis that followed the pandemic. Two thirds of these funds will have to be returned and who will have to return them? Especially young people, who are one of the cross-cutting objectives. I would have preferred to see as the objective of the Plan the centrality of young people, because they will bear the burden on their shoulders, more than we who may not have all this perspective and above all we have already lived much of our lives. We have also tried to improve measures for young people in the document we have prepared. The various Commissions have touched on key points. First of all, there has been talk of the kindergartens and therefore of the support to families, through their spread throughout the territory, be they public, private, but also corporate, in order to improve the reconciliation of the times and allow more women to return or, especially in some areas of Italy, to enter the world of work for the first time. This is crucial, since in Italy the rate of female participation in work is really very low. As I have done so many times, I want to keep reminding you that kindergarten allows educators to offer children the tools to be autonomous since childhood. The educators do one type of work and the family at home does another, offering another type of education, and they are both very important. This work allows children to start well in our primary school, which, state or equal, I think is excellent and offers great tools. From now on, children are also very stimulated with respect to the issues within the PNRR, from the ecological transition, to the attention to nature: so, we are there. It is also necessary to strengthen education in secondary schools in general and to ensure first of all that there is no school dispersal, because all the boys and girls, children and girls who leave school lose the possibility of living a balanced life and having a job, dignity and mental health: we cannot afford this. Since we need children, let us make sure that we can start new families and not in a miserable way, but that we can be themselves builders of the country's future. Many things have been included in the Plan, but I think that the development of the projects that will be implemented will have to be the focus of young people, who will have to develop a spirit aimed at work and business, believe in the future and in their role in tomorrow's society. Finally, I mention one last point, certainly no less important than the others. In the PNRR we are talking about important reforms, from justice to public administration, which are fundamental to a return to competitiveness. Simplifying is mentioned above all, so much so that we find this term everywhere. Of course, however, all these measures are designed to be approved quickly, but then they must be carried out by the work of individual people, but very often they are fifty or sixty years old and may be close to retirement. These people must feel involved: they have been lucky enough to live in a time of peace, health and well-being and must therefore feel a great responsibility towards the new generations, making all possible efforts to guarantee a little more health and development even to the generation of their grandchildren - we owe it to them - even if they face changes in habits, putting themselves in play and learning things they have never done. This is also a duty for 60-year-olds like me: we owe it to young people and our country. We must not allow young people and our best intelligence to go abroad. We need to bring back the best and most trained young people and we need to raise the level of all, because that is the only way we can have a healthier society and an economy supported by the contribution of so many people. Those we abandon will find us knocking on the doors of social services and will be a problem, because unfortunately they will not have a balanced life, balanced families and children to grow up. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u180	Colleagues, as agreed, we interrupt the debate. I shall therefore refer the document back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u183	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of this House a very nasty and disgusting affair which took place in the province of Rome a few days ago. The press reports doubly that the President of the City Council of Ciampino, a representative of the League then self-absorbed, would beat his wife in front of the children who were in DAD. The Carabinieri and the judicial authority are investigating the case, but it is known that already from 2015 the former wife of the president of the City Council Massimo Balmas, exponent of the League of Ciampino, had denounced her husband for ill-treatment and in September 2020 for stalking. I want to bring this issue to the Senate Chamber, after we put it to the Minister of the Lamorgese Interior, because of the gravity of such a story, which unfortunately afflicts many couples, both inside the domestic walls and outside. Violence against women is a tragedy, but even more so if the alleged culprit is also an exponent of the institutions. Above all, it is not nice that the mayor of Ciampino, Daniela Ballico, exponent of Brothers of Italy, moreover a smart woman, leading one of the largest municipalities in the province of Rome, and that also the president of the Partito Fratelli d'Italia Giorgia Meloni do not say anything about this story. In addition, the President of the City Council has arbitrarily revoked the session of the City Council on the budget; most likely he was embarrassed, but a President of the City Council cannot revoke a session regularly convened for the approval of the budget. The City Councillors of Ciampino have put this issue to the prefect from administrative and perhaps even criminal points of view, but it is right that this issue is known, discussed and brought to the utmost attention in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u186	ROMAGNOLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that these interventions should not be made, because in such situations we should pay particular attention and things should be resolved differently than they actually are, but I have to point out this: on 24 February last I tabled a question concerning the serious seismic events of 2016 - unfortunately we are still talking about the earthquake - that hit Central Italy, in this case also affecting the Municipality of Tolentino (Macerata). I stress the importance of this situation in calling for the simplification of procedures to allow rapid and dignified settlement to earthquake victims, who are still waiting today. I try to reconstruct the facts briefly. Article 14 of Decree-Law No 8 of 9 February 2017 states that the Regions affected by seismic events, instead of carrying out the construction of emergency housing facilities (the famous SAEs), could have acquired homes to be assigned free of charge to residents who had destroyed, damaged or declared inaccessible buildings. So far, so good. The Civil Protection Department issued Order No 510, allocating EUR 20.85 million to Tolentino for the construction of new buildings in place of the SAE. The delivery of the real estate units was estimated at 31 August 2019, but to date we find that only 21 apartments out of 45 have been delivered. Moreover, the latter are not even complete with the allocations that were planned. Today I would like to stress the fact that hearing about SAE at this time is really dramatic, because we should be concerned about resolving the situation that had to some extent been carried out correctly. In my view, it is necessary to take immediate steps to ensure that detailed investigations are carried out into the events described, with correct and, above all, rapid solutions. I hope that my speech will not be taken as a polemic, because it is in an absolutely constructive spirit, but we cannot waste time that we do not have, so we must be quick in carrying out the work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u189	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, I would like to highlight in the Senate an emblematic case of hydrogeological failure that has reached the national stage and raises great concerns: the reactivation of a large landslide, located on the south-eastern side of Mount Saresano, near Tavernola Bergamasca on Lake Iseo. It is a landslide of gliding planar that affects a side with marnous limestones stratified to landslide, interested by a front of quarry no longer active, hanging on the coastal road of Lake Iseo. The volume mobilized is enormous, equal to about two million cubic meters. The landslide is gradually slowing down and now moves at a speed of less than one centimeter per day, after touching peaks of almost four centimeters per day at the end of February. Possible scenarios have been evaluated. In the worst, the landslide would spread to the lake of Iseo, thus generating an abnormal wave. that could potentially reach the surrounding areas of the town of Tavernola Bergamasca, the eastern coast of Mount Isola, as well as other coastal resorts. However, an event of this magnitude may be expected to be preceded by an acceleration of the movements detectable by the monitoring in place, providing sufficient advance notice for the necessary civil protection procedures. Unfortunately, the hydrogeological failure in Italy affects 91 percent of the municipalities, with daily floods and 620,808 landslides recorded (two-thirds of all European ones). The causes of the hydrogeological failure are many: geological conditions, soil misuse, degradation of the minor water grid, continuous soil consumption and, in recent times, climate change. The main cause is however of a social and cultural nature: the lack of attention dedicated to the problem, the short memory of the disastrous events and the insufficient education in this matter are all factors that have inevitably led to distortions in the planning of the development of the territory. The problem is solved by a series of magical priorities: knowledge, planning, management and maintenance of the territory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u192	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I refer to Mr Bagnai's speech this morning on the closure of the Byoblu YouTube channel; It is a channel that has broadcast thousands of videos, with hundreds of thousands of people following it, and that has been closed by YouTube for ideological reasons, for matters of opinion. This multinational giant, more powerful than many manufacturing companies, decides what you can see and what you can't see. The logic according to which this would be like a private club, where everyone decides who can speak and who can't, doesn't stand. In addition to RAI, of course, private televisions are also such, yet the laws on par-dicium - the best known one, No. 28 of 2000, but also No. 515 of 1993 - establish the type of access they must grant; even private televisions put limits, prevent commercials that speak of politics and impose, in fact, par-dicium especially in electoral periods. Therefore, if you can impose on private televisions, you can - and at this point you must - impose a discipline to safeguard the free debate also to these giants of the web, who, among other things, practically evade taxes in our country, even when advertisers are Italian, turn to an Italian audience and connect to Italian videos. I agree with what so many people have said, from so many different political, ideological and professional backgrounds: there must be an initiative - I appeal to the President of the Senate, who I know is sensitive about, for stressing the seriousness of the cancellation of the accounts of a senator or perhaps more than one - because it is really important that freedom of expression continues to be guaranteed to everyone, whatever their opinions are. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u193	Thank you, Senator Malan. In fact, it is a subject that we have touched on several times and we hope to be able to accept its treatment in some future measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u196	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, last week we celebrated World Water Day as a fundamental asset for human life, as an element that we must defend with all our strength against waste and pollution. When I think about these issues, I cannot help but connect them to my territory, from which I have raised the umpteenth concerns of many citizens living in the lower Piedmont and the Ligurian Apennines. I have therefore deposited the third question on the matter great works, in particular Third pass, a line goods that should connect the port of Genoa with Tortona to the modest figure of 6.8 billion euros for 53 kilometers of rails and tunnels. As is well known, we have always been opposed to this work, which, however, according to a cost-benefit analysis, had to go on. We have therefore decided to demand that everything be done in full compliance with environmental rules and the protection, health and safety of workers. When we talk about great works, we are always talking about great economic and working benefits for the territories; however, I regret to see that all this is not happening, indeed. Neither respect for the environment nor the defence of Apennine sources and aquifers are taking place. Last summer whole countries were without drinking water, residents of the Municipalities of Novi Ligure, Pozzolo Formigaro and Rivalta Scrivia saw their cellars flooded, months after the flood events, because in both cases it seems that the works intercepted the layer, draining it in the first case and obstructing it in the second. Work is not being adequately protected within the Third Pass yards; in fact, there are several deaths and many serious accidents, which have led to permanent mutilation and disability; the last one occurred just last Friday, when a worker crushed by an excavator lost his right leg, and the doctors are struggling to save at least his left limb from probable amputation. Not to mention the companies of the induced that have opened procedures of layoffs: therefore, we talk about work for the territory, but this job is ending. The economic benefits for the territories involved are not happening: in 2018 we managed to have two million euros allocated for the design of the new fleet sorting goods of Alexandria, work always connected to the Third pass, and here I ask how those sums have been destined or if in the meantime they have been used, because to date it is not given to know. I hope that I will be able to get some answers with the three questions that have been tabled. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u197	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-309.ana.u198	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 1 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.50 p.m.
