ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 3 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Environmental Transition and the Minister for Labour and Social Policy will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator De Petris has the right to explain the question 3-02551 on environmental impact assessments in the field of hydrocarbon research and exploration for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u4	Mr President, in recent weeks a number of new EIA decrees on renewals of concessions and projects for the production of wells and drilling, both on-shore and on-shore, have been approved by the Minister for the ecological transition here. At the same time a long series of extensions of concessions was published, the vast majority of which relate to Eni. The question therefore arises - and this is a very sensitive issue - although we know that these acts are administrative in nature and not mining titles (suspended, like all new permits for research and exploration of hydrocarbons), why the Minister has not considered the opportunity to wait and therefore to speed up the preparation and approval of the Pitesai, the Plan for the appropriate areas, which, as stated by Parliament, should be approved by 30 September 2021 and on which, among other things, an acceleration would have been even more appropriate, precisely in view of these authorization processes which have been blocked for years and which have now been approved. This is also because we may find ourselves faced with the situation that many of these will perhaps fall into areas that I hope the Plan in preparation considers inappropriate. By the way, nine of the extensions have retroactive effect and go to intervene on securities expired in 2017. In our opinion, two of the EIA decrees concern two existing research permits, which therefore, by law, had to be suspended. Now, it is clear that we - and you are absolutely convinced of this, as we know - must absolutely speed up the ecological transition, on which we must all focus as a country. But to do this, you also need to have a precise road map. We would therefore like to understand from you how you want to proceed also with regard to the issue of hydrocarbons and, in particular, if you believe that the Ministry will be able to approve and elaborate the Pitesai by 30 September 2021. We would also like to know whether it does not consider it appropriate, in the light of this, to suspend all proceedings and not to authorize current requests. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u5	Mr President, the question put by the honourable Member concerns certain EIA decrees and the approval of the Pitesai. I take this opportunity to clarify some things that might otherwise cause confusion. First of all, I could not have considered whether or not to conclude the EIA proceedings we are talking about. Under the General Law on Administrative Procedure, in fact, there is an obligation to conclude proceedings even when the same, as in the case of the EIA, end with the signature of a Minister. At the time of my inauguration, the investigation of the seven EIA proceedings in question was completed for a long time, after a long process; I would have had no reason to stay the proceedings further, for a further six months or so, except by exposing the Ministry to compensation actions for damage caused by delay. I would point out that there was no reason to believe that the schemes of EIA measures, whose investigation was already complete at my inauguration, were unlawful and therefore to delay its signature further. It is not correct then to say that the EIA decrees at my signature would have authorized the search for hydrocarbons. The EIA decrees, as is well known, are intermediate acts limited only to environmental profiles and do not allow in any way research, which is instead entrusted to various authorization measures, that is to say to the so-called mining titles. Still, it is not correct to say that the extensions of concessions already granted would conflict with the law. In this regard, as should be known, the suspension provided by Decree-Law No 135 of 2018 concerns only new prospecting and research permits and not even extensions of concessions already granted, which the law expressly excludes from the moratorium. Turning to the second question, concerning the Pitesai, I can say that its activities proceed in a completely regular way. Incidentally, I think you will remember that two days after my oath I asked why there was no Pitesai, since the drills had arrived just two days after I had entered the role and I knew objectively little. It was I who insisted that the Pitesai be, at this point, approved as soon as possible, since it had been stationary for two years and only after its approval should the obvious, fair and reasonable choices have been made. The Pitesai, of course, will dictate law from this point of view. In particular, on 2 March, the consultation phase on the preliminary sweeping relationship with environmental stakeholders was launched with a duration of seventy-three days compared to the maximum period of ninety laid down in the current legislation. On 14 May, the Authority received the opinion of the Technical Committee on Environmental Impact Assessment EIA and SEA on the above consultation. We are waiting for the proposing authority of the Environmental Report Plan and the non-technical summary to initiate the public consultation pursuant to Article 14 of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, which will last sixty days from the publication of the notice in the Official Journal. The public consultation phase will allow the technical commission to verify the environmental impact of EIA and VAS to express itself with its own reasoned opinion, which will form an integral part of the ministerial decree, in agreement with the Ministry of Culture, to be issued in order to allow the adoption of the Plan by September 2021. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u6	Thank you, Minister, for I believe that it was absolutely appropriate that further clarification should be given in this House and, above all, I thank you for saying - the words spoken in this House are solemn - that the deadlines will be respected and that the Plan will therefore be drawn up and presented by 30 September. However, I would also like to point out to you, Minister, that we know perfectly well that, as it was already written, the acts you have now specified are all administrative in nature and there is therefore no issue of new titles, which are suspended by law. The point that I submitted to you is that precisely because of the fact that you are working on the elaboration of the Pitesai, perhaps it would be appropriate to make a more general evaluation also with all the other plans that are on the website of the Ministry and that are in itinere to verify, also from the administrative point of view, which could be the road map in order to avoid that they can be in contrast with the Pitesai.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u7	Senator Briziarelli has the right to explain question 3-025444 on the introduction of a ban on the use of disposable plastic products for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u8	Minister, as you know, it is on 3 July, which is the date on which the obligation to transpose the SUP, the European directive on plastic disposables, will enter into force, which bans so many products. I would like to clear the field of any doubt: the League is absolutely in favour of the defence of the environment and realizes that we need a strong commitment from everyone. However, two considerations must be taken into account. The first is that, as we all know, the impact of the whole of Europe on the amount of plastic that goes into the sea is less than 1% (0.72 per cent) and the 120 rivers that bring more plastic to the oceans, 119 are non-European, one is European and not Italian. The commitment is okay, but bearing in mind that since this path started two major changes have taken place. The first, of course, is that research, in which our country is also working, has gone on and now we have the possibility, for example, of producing 100% recyclable PET plastic bottles; much has also been done on the part of the containers, but above all there has been and there is an epidemic in progress that has shown that disposable plastic in many cases has also been crucial in ensuring safety and health and saving lives. We are faced with a research that goes on, an epidemic that is still underway, an economic crisis that has brought to its knees entire sectors of the Italian and European economy and faced a shortage in the market of products that can replace those currently used. For reasons of time, I only give two examples. Let's just think about the plastic pallets of vending machines. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of pieces that are currently not replaceable, but also about trays to contain food. Not only are the items that have to replace plastic more expensive (we could even bear the bill), but they are not even available. We ask the Government to ask Europe for an extension, a moratorium on the introduction of this legislation, in order to be able to review in the meantime the materials included in the list, given that Europe itself is lagging behind in providing information on what should be done with stock stocks, on how to act, but also to review the situation in the light of what is happening. Italy certainly missed years ago in the ascending phase, but it is not the case that it now takes on a problem that other European countries also live. I wonder if it is not appropriate to take time to find a solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u9	The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u10	Mr President, the Ministry has drawn up the draft legislative decree, transposing European Directive No 904 of 2019, on the basis of the delegation criteria set out in Article 22 of the European delegation law. The legislative decree provides for a special provision aimed at allowing the placing on the market of disposable products made of biodegradable and compostable plastic certified, according to the European standard UNI EN 13432, with increasing percentages of renewable raw material. This is the case where it is not possible to use reusable alternatives to disposable plastic products intended to come into contact with food. This is a first element that puts mitigation actions in place. I would like to point out, however, that I personally (in my previous life as a researcher, I was also involved in this, of biodegradable plastics) have been involved with the European Commission, in particular with Commissioner Timmermans in his recent visit to Rome, representing first of all that, with regard to biodegradable and compostable plastics, with a view to transition to circular plastic management, they should be considered as sustainable alternatives to standard plastics. In the same way, I have represented by letter, as well as by voice, that it is not justifiable to consider as plastic the paper products with very thin plastic coatings, regardless of the actual plastic content that holds them together. I believe that biodegradable and compostable plastics, as well as paper products with a very thin plastic coating, should instead be considered as sustainable alternatives to traditional practices, to be used for a rapid transition to the circular economy. Similarly, I would point out that the Government intends to support a less stringent interpretation of the definition of natural polymers which have not been chemically modified by the latest draft EU guidelines, i.e. only referring to the final stage of the manufacturing process, which is the real difference between the two categories. I believe very much in the good reasons for the arguments we are supporting in Italy and Europe and I can assure the interrogators and all my colleagues that we will continue to support them with strength and conviction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Arrigoni has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for his willingness to act at European level to try to speak on these directives. You are well aware of the Italian supply chain of these products, which has an important share of the European market. It is a chain with 11,000 companies and represents an important part of our GDP, with tens of thousands of employees. They are already in trouble for the pandemic. It is therefore necessary to act to protect them by giving them more time and certainty, in order to convert their production with other materials subject to research and development. Beyond these economic and social considerations, what I would like to point out, Minister, is that we are preparing to put out of the market even disposable products that with Covid have shown to represent effective solutions in limiting the spread of the virus and able to guarantee health and food safety, cost-effectiveness and availability, without having others ready in alternative materials. [[Applause]] Are we certain of the guarantees of safety in the protection of consumers linked to the import of disposable products too hastily forced to replace European, but above all Italian, super-controlled productions? For example, banning disposable plastic and bioplastic cutlery would deprive the market (including school canteens and hospitals) of any concrete single-use option, without prejudice to the rare and certainly not made in Europe bamboo cutlery, non-recyclable, compared to which there are no studies on real sustainability. Therefore, the application of the SUP Directive should be suspended at least until the end of the state of emergency of health care, immediately planning its revision in order to correct the errors and make it really applicable, more effective and concretely more sustainable, also because the guidelines and the implementing regulations of the SUP Directive are in serious delay compared to the forecasts and this is creating confusion, uncertainty and impossibility for the companies to adapt quickly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u12	The Senator Fourthly, I would like to explain the question of the opening of the interministerial committee on ecological transition for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr Cingolani, pursuant to Article 4 of Decree-Law No 22 of 1 March 2021 on urgent provisions on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries, converted into law on 21 April, the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition (ISCED) is set up in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, with the task of ensuring the coordination of national policies for the ecological transition and its planning. ISCED is composed of the Ministers for the ecological transition, the economy and the finances, economic development, sustainable infrastructure and mobility, labour and social policies and agricultural, food and forestry policies, as well as the Ministers responsible for the measures on the agenda. It should be borne in mind that ISCED has the task of approving, within three months of the entry into force of the Decree, the Plan for the ecological transition, in order to coordinate energy policies and reduce emissions of climate change gases, sustainable mobility, contrast to hydrogeological failure and soil consumption, water resources and related infrastructure, circular economy, air quality, remodulation of environmentally harmful subsidies, protection of the sea and biodiversity. It should also be borne in mind that the Plan will have to identify actions, funding, time programmes and administrations responsible for implementing the individual measures and that two decrees of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers are foreseen for the establishment of the Technical Support Committee and the establishment of the ISCED Rules of Procedure. It should also be noted that the activation of ISCED takes on strategic importance for the ecological transition outlined by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, especially in a new perspective of sustainable development, environmental enhancement and security and simplification of bureaucracy. For all these reasons, it is asked to know what are the timing and the mode of effective activation of the ISCED and whether the Minister intends to promote the speedy adoption of the decrees necessary for its efficient activation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u14	Mr President, I had prepared an answer, but about an hour ago we had a communication that the Committee is convened for tomorrow at 10.30 a.m. I think this is already an important part of the answer. I would just like to point out (of course a more complete answer) that the full operation of the Committee, as has been mentioned, requires the establishment of certain operational rules. To this end, Article 4 of Decree-Law No 22 provided for the approval of two decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers on my proposal. I can inform and confirm that the offices have been sending the draft decree to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers for a few weeks now and that the related procedure has been completed. We have been told today that we will meet tomorrow at 10.30 a.m. To speed up the time (I myself felt a little pressure since 30 May is the date by which to provide and by 30 June I will have to present the package of the Mite) we have already prepared the documentation, the strategic plan and other things that we will share with the Ministers to be as quick as possible in the activation. Also thanks to all the stresses, tomorrow at 10.30 we start and we can consider started the machine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Quarto to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u15	Minister, we are satisfied with what you have said, with the attention you have shown to the problem and with the details you have given. Given the great novelty of the Ministry of the ecological transition launched by the Movimento 5 Stars for the green revolution of our country, we pentastellated commissioners of the Commission territory, environment, environmental goods, that we have signed the question, we are strongly interested in the full success of this new political creature. The Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition will be fundamental in the shared determination of policies that will affect the immediate (think about the recovery fund) and the future of the country (think about the next generations). Given that the technical support committee of ISCED is foreseen within the financial, human and instrumental resources available, we also hope that a stable structure will be established that employs the best competences of our country at national and local level, respecting the principles of subsidiarity and loyal collaboration. This will be used to better manage the resources at our disposal, by implementing operational models that ensure efficiency, effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, simplicity and transparency in the use of funding for environmental protection and sustainable development. We also hope that the fruitful dialogue between the Ministry and Parliament will continue, illuminating political action with the light of eco-sustainability, social justice, sharing, freedom and solidarity. On the basis of these ethical cornerstones, you will be able to develop all the innovative potential of this Ministry led by you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u16	Senator Parente has the right to explain the question 3-02550 on measures to improve safety at the workplace, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u17	Mr President, Mr Orlando, even today, unfortunately, another worker has died in the foggiano, plummeting from a scaffolding. Diing at work is the deepest injustice that can exist in a community, and it is a wound to the whole of society, a piece of us that goes away. From 2015 to today we have always had more than 1,000 white deaths per year and in the first quarter of this year have increased compared to previous years and not only for Covid. We all still have in our eyes the wonderful picture of Luana and in our hearts our emotion when we commemorated in this House her young life broken while she was working. But emotion and mourning are not enough for us. You can't go on like this. The fight against white deaths and accidents at work must be the first ever ethical, social and political commitment of the entire ruling class of our country. Mr Orlando, I would like to ask you what action you intend to take to strengthen health and safety in the workplace. We learned from this pandemic that without health there is no economy and there is no employment. I therefore ask you whether you consider it appropriate, through the use of Industry 4.0 funds and other PNRR resources, to implement a large plan of support for the purchase of predictive technologies, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and of innovative and safe machinery that also uses artificial intelligence that can prevent, even from a small warning, malfunctions of machinery and organizational dysfunctions, so as to avoid fatal consequences for workers and workers and sometimes for citizens, as the terrible tragedy of Stresa is demonstrating to us these days.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u18	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u19	Mr President, the recent accidents which we have unfortunately had to experience in recent weeks call once again for the greatest attention to be paid to the issue of health and safety at work. It is the need for an effective response from the institutions that must unite us. In Italy, the number of accidents at work, and in particular those with fatal outcomes for workers, is still unacceptable, as Senator Parente recalled. We have built over the years, thanks to the constant transposition of European and international instruments, an advanced and comprehensive regulatory framework to make the working environment safe and healthy. However, a regulatory framework, however evolved, alone is not enough. Effectiveness of these principles must be ensured through the strengthening of public policies, with particular attention to the strengthening of three areas: supervision, prevention and training. In the first place, it is necessary to strengthen preventive inspection structures by increasing staff, training and constant updating of control staff and more effective coordination between the institutions responsible for monitoring in the workplace, in particular with the involvement of the competent regional health structures responsible for carrying out around 90% of the controls. Together with the Minister of Health Hope I have made this first commitment, to strengthen the link between supervisors and improve the planning of this activity, with the aim of making it more incisive and constant. In this sense, Article 50 of Decree-Law No 73 of 2021, which has just been adopted, has provided for the possibility for the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces to recruit medical and technical preventive personnel in an extraordinary way, in order to enhance the verification activities for the safety of workplaces. In addition, the process of strengthening the National Labour Inspectorate, provided for in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, has already begun, from which the authorisation to take up 2,100 units at the same Inspectorate. In addition to strengthening control activities and structures, government action will be strongly geared to strengthening prevention policies. In addition to official data, thousands of accidents must be considered which do not emerge, since they involve invisible workers, employed in black or otherwise with irregular employment relationships. The issue of safety can no longer be separated from that of the regular establishment of working relationships, which is the necessary precondition for safe and decent work. That is why we have foreseen in the PNRR the adoption of a National Action Plan to strengthen the fight against undeclared and irregular work in the different sectors of the economy. As far as investments are concerned, specific measures for the maintenance and replacement of existing installations and for technological innovation should be targeted within the framework of the PNRR's resources... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u20	Please, Minister, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u21	Mr Orlando, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the strengthening of the regulatory framework, it is appropriate to introduce instruments for the qualification of enterprises, as requested by the honourable Member. Specific attention will be given to the system of small and medium-sized enterprises, which may face more difficulties in achieving and maintaining adequate levels of safety and prevention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u22	I give the floor to the Senator Parente to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u23	Minister, I am pleased with your reply, especially with regard to the part concerning prevention and investment, as explained and asked in the question. I believe that we should also establish, with a national choice, that there is a minute of recollection whenever there is a victim at work, not only to remember it, but that through remembrance the need for collaboration between all forces grows at that time. You are right, Minister, in saying that a rule is not enough, but there must be the cooperation of all: politicians, administrators, entrepreneurs and trade unions. I like to recall a phrase by Enrico Berlinguer, a father of our Republic, in any way we think of it, according to which we must build a society that respects all freedoms, less one: that of exploiting the work of other human beings, because this freedom all others destroys and makes vain. I believe that with the help of all, even in this House, we can take a step forward in establishing a condition of civilization in our country, so we must no longer die of work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u24	Senator Maffoni has the right to explain the question 3-02548 on the cases of communications of the INPS of forfeiture from social security benefits with reference to deceased persons, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u25	Mr President, Minister, over the past few days we have heard from the national press, which has rightly highlighted the ironic absurdity, yet another disservice by the INPS. The family members of a deceased engineer, who returned to Italy after a life of work in Germany, received a letter at his home and addressed to him, in which he was informed of the conclusion of the pension treatment, granting him - I quote - "the possibility to receive further clarification at our offices." It is obvious, Minister, that this is a mistake, presumably due to a distraction, just as it is obvious - we hope so - that the local director, who signed the letter, was not really convinced of a possible response from the deceased. Yet, if in the case just told we can benefit from the doubt related to a random error, there are other cases where the institute stands out for negligence and malice. I must tell you - you will be aware of this - about the case of Seano, in which an entrepreneur, linked to a travel agency, took his life because of the difficulties caused by the pandemic. Well, Minister, despite the death of the owner, the INPS has decided not to remove the position of the entrepreneur, causing many problems to the active member. Minister Orlando, we believe that the disservices, errors and difficulties of our National Institute for Social Security have become many and intolerable for too long. I am even more so - may I say so - especially in a historical and economic context such as the one we are living in, in which such an important institution must guarantee vital support for those who, because of the pandemic, have also lost all their income. Every day, on the other hand, there are cases where legitimate beneficiaries of INPS aid instruments are unable to obtain what is due, while a very high percentage of beneficiaries of the shameful citizenship income instrument continue to benefit from this grant without any right. Minister, according to some estimates, 10% of those who receive citizenship income should not receive it. We hope that at some point we can achieve a breakthrough in the management of this institution and, above all, in the transparency and efficiency that it should have. We are not convinced that this will happen, but at least we hope that the gross mistakes that are made every day will finally cease.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u26	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u27	Mr President, Senator, the letter of revocation of the citizenship pension which was the subject of the question was inserted, following an anomaly, in the massive communication flows intended for all recipients of income and citizenship pension. All letters sent by the INPS concerning a large audience of recipients are handled massively in automated form according to predefined transmission rules. This clearly makes it possible to adopt timely forms of communication of all measures to the many recipients of the benefits provided by the Institute to protect them. In the present case, the Institute has sent a total number of 409,000 letters to all applicants for income or citizenship pension in the past few days in order to inform the recipients of the rejection, revocation or revocation of the benefit, with the reasons for it, also in order to allow the possible submission of a request for review. We could talk - if you will allow me - about a shift from intelligence to artificial stupidity, with the addition of the lack of vigilance of those who are responsible. In the automated management of this communication, the complete letter of motivation, which is sent to the applicants, stems from the cross-section of the data contained in the format of the letter with the text of the reasons for revocation, revocation or rejection, according to the procedural rules and predefined in the phase of administrative analysis. The citizenship pension, in fact, is a benefit aimed at the whole family. Where - as in the present case - the reason for the revocation is linked to the death of the single family component, due to an inadequate design of the administrative analysis underlying the writing of the computer procedure, the general rule of the other revocation communications related to the death has been applied. In the light of what has happened, it has been my care to recommend that INPS immediately block the sending of letters to the applicants for the deceased single-component nuclei. The Institute, therefore, has assured that the preventive controls of the automated shipment flows of the massive correspondence through the overall revision of the complex administrative analyses underlying will be further enhanced. It has certainly been a distorted use of computer applications, which we hope will not be repeated. I would add, however, for the sake of completeness, that the INPS in these months has been subjected to a workload that has no precedent in history. Beyond the individual cases, if these errors are to be contextualized, the evidence of an unacceptable repetition is true, but it is also true that the general context puts in the field of the numbers for which this data must be taken into account. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Maffoni has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u28	Thank you for your kind reply, Minister, but I am partially satisfied. Beyond the above mentioned episode, the framework on the support instruments provided by the National Social Security Institute would deserve a more complex reasoning, which is obviously not possible today. However, I should like to say that much on the subject of work, support instruments and now on the Italian pension system is still to be done. Despite everyone's awareness, we are well aware of the fact that this unfortunately does not happen in practice. The pandemic has led our country to live in situations of enormous difficulty and, at such a delicate moment, one cannot but demand extreme efficiency, especially in this field, and not only because it is a due act, but also because families and companies will be able to think of living - and we hope also, I am sure, to leave - only if the State will be at their side. Mistakes, at this time more than ever of course, are unacceptable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u29	Senator Misiani has the right to explain the question 3-02549 on the adoption of measures to support and protect workers in the post-emergency phase, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u30	Minister, Article 8 of the Support Decree has begun the gradual overcoming of the blockade of dismissals, which has been and is one of the main emerging measures taken by the Government to deal with the employment emergency caused by the pandemic. The decree-law has established a path that provides the permanence until 30 June 2021 of the block for the companies that require CIG or ordinary integration fund and until 31 October for those who request the ordinary cheque in the treatment of integration as a derogation. The decree support- bis, recently published in the Official Journal, has in turn provided for a series of important measures aimed at accompanying the restart of the productive system of our country and the gradual overcoming of the block of dismissals, among which: additional four emergency income quotas; the extension of the expansion contract, whose threshold of access drops from 250 to 100 employees; the introduction of a reemployment contract; decontribution measures for tourism, spas and trade; the extension of the integration fund for termination and, in Article 40, the exemption from payment of the additional contribution, from 1 July 2021, for companies that submit an application for wage integration, ordinary or extraordinary, with the commitment for them not to initiate dismissal procedures, which are foreclosed until 31 December 2021. We consider this set of measures to be a just, balanced and effective solution to meet different needs in a complex phase of the country's economic and social life. Parliament, Mr President, has always been very attentive and sensitive in recent months to the issue of the employment consequences of the crisis, and in particular to the issue of redundancies, at the heart of the debate these days too. With this question we ask the Minister and the Government what initiatives they intend to take in support and protection of workers in this phase of transition and what measures the Government intends to take to accompany the reorganization of production systems and strengthen active labour policies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u31	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senators of the PD for this question which allows me to explain the measures - as Senator Misiani has done in part - to protect jobs and occupations, contained in the Decree-A-Supports, which offers a network of protection for workers, for the most fragile and for businesses and at the same time to promote and encourage economic recovery. I am referring in particular to the reemployment contract, a new type of permanent employment contract, which was established experimentally until 31 October 2021 and aimed at encouraging the employment integration of the unemployed, to which a 100% contribution reduction for six months is linked. There is also a strengthening of the solidarity contract, as has been mentioned: in fact, companies that at the end of June will have the release of redundancies, with a 50% reduction in turnover, can conclude, as an alternative to the use of ordinary social shock absorbers, an incentive solidarity contract, not subject to the additional contribution, aimed at maintaining employment levels. The scope of the expansion contract was extended: for 2021, the threshold for access to the measure fell to 100 employees. Its refinancing is also planned for the year 2024, amounting to EUR 30 million. It was also decided to extend by six months the special earnings fund (CIGS) for cessation of activity, as well as to refinance the Social Fund for Employment and Training (FSOF) by EUR 125 million for 2022. I also consider it particularly important for its potential the measure establishing the fund for the creation of schools for trades in the workplace, aimed at promoting vocational training within companies, especially those requiring skilled labour, with the hope that it will attract young people who are currently excluded from the labour and education system. As regards the specific issue of the end of redundancies, measures have been identified to adequately support and protect workers and businesses at this stage of transition, with a view to the recovery, in which the economic situation is still critical or at least uncertain and therefore likely to have negative effects on employment. To this end, it is expected that companies that will choose to use the ordinary earnings insurance fund (CIGO) from 1 July will be able to benefit from the exemption of additional contributions and not to proceed with dismissals. I trust that the labour measures contained in this emergency measure, which are based on the logic of a necessary link between incentives for businesses and the safeguarding of jobs, can contribute effectively to the restarting of the economy. However, the structural reforms of social shock absorbers and active policies must be accompanied, which will enable us to look more confidently at the future and give work the decisive role of driving the new phase of growth. By July I will present to the Council of Ministers the reform of social shock absorbers, aimed at guaranteeing universal protection also extended to those who until now were excluded from all protection and who also take account of... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .company size. With regard to policies, with the decree-law supports -bis we have provided for the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL) and to reconfigure its governance, with the aim of making more effective and rational the action and coordination between the various competent institutional actors, central and peripheral. We have followed the strengthening of employment centres both through an increase in resources and by accelerating the recruitment of 11,000 new operators. In addition, the dialogue with the individual reference regions for the implementation of the regional reinforcement plans has just been concluded. All these initiatives continue jointly, inspired by an organic vision of public policies to accompany the transformation of the labour market, especially in this phase of restarting and facilitating employment transitions, focusing on stable and quality work and raising the level of protection. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u33	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Missa for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u34	Minister, thank you. We have already expressed our full support for the measures contained in the two supporting decrees-laws. Safeguarding work and not leaving people alone are essential actions to push the Italian economy out of the pandemic crisis and to achieve the growth goals expected in 2021. Trade unions and, again, entrepreneurs are well aware of this: there is no economic growth in the conflict between labour and capital and there is no recovery of productivity or efficiency in the processes of the different industrial sectors; on the contrary, the economy in the conflict slows down. Having worked in these years of pandemic crisis with the Covid cashier and with all the tools to protect employee and self-employed work without any distinction, in the perspective of the universality of the right to work, was a far-sighted political choice, which we claim, in full harmony with our roots. I say this in order to remove from shock absorbers and unnecessary dismissals ideological contrasts: when faced with a crisis of enterprise or with processes of restructuring organic endowments, before activating the dismissal procedures, social shock absorbers are best used. Making it possible for businesses to have two months of cash Covid is a fair decision, which we share, useful to businesses and indispensable not to leave people and workers alone. It is a choice that must unite, not divide. Now our gaze must be oriented towards the reform of shock absorbers. The enormous change in society and the economy offers new opportunities that open up in the digital and environmental transition: new active policies, a training income instead of passive care. These are the ways in which it is necessary to work immediately to open the reform season. This is why a useful contribution will come from the reform of social shock absorbers to growth, to the affirmation of universal rights in work and to the definition of new prospects for growth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u35	Senator Floris has the right to explain question 3-02552 on the prospects for reform of citizenship income and other labour market instruments, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u36	Minister, since: the measure of citizenship income has shown that it is unfit for the dual purpose for which it was introduced, abolishing poverty and working for reintegration into the world of work; the allocation of rain subsidies has shown the propensity of many to fraud, increasing black work, voluntary unemployment and cases of people engaged in illegal activities; there are hundreds of thousands of jobs left undiscovered considering that ANPAL, INPS and Infocamere seem not to dialogue; the blocking of layoffs fixed at 30 June 2021 now poses the additional problem of supporting hundreds of thousands of people who, in fact, are out of work since the restrictions on certain economic activities were introduced; the same pandemic has caused an impressive increase in the number of people who are in work, the questioners ask to know: whether the Minister intends to put into practice the reform of the income of citizenship, while separating the indispensable policies of social inclusion and support for poverty from the active labour policies; how he intends to bridge the gap between the demands and offers of work, which also today he intends to implement the reform of the income of the labour force, and whether he intends to implement it as well as a plan for continuing training of the training of the workers, while involving the social inclusion and support for the labour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u37	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the income of citizenship is concerned, there is no doubt - as the Istat data confirm - that this institution has been objectively effective in combating poverty, not in eliminating it. Already in the first year of implementation it has enabled the impact of the serious economic and social crisis following the pandemic to be severely mitigated, with particular regard to the situation of fragility and social distress. In its original approach, the legislator considered that measures to combat poverty and social exclusion could not be excluded from integration with active labour policies. It is not an abstract or wrong approach: work is always the foundation of full citizenship and is, however, the main way out of poverty. The challenge, however, is not so much how to distinguish welfare policies from those of work, but how we can integrate them and provide adequate answers to complex needs, as are those of the most fragile people. Moreover, in the field of application - albeit in small percentages - some abuses have been recorded, however they have emerged as a result of an effective control activity, and there is no evidence that the income of citizenship has increased undeclared work or voluntary unemployment. In view of the importance of the measure and the need to overcome the critical issues, however, I have promoted the establishment of a scientific committee for the assessment of citizenship income, with the aim of assessing the performance of the institution, identifying corrective actions and proposing, where appropriate, actions necessary to link it more effectively to active labour policies. With regard to the issue of the mismatch between demand and supply in the labour market, the Government presented an ambitious reform plan under the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the guarantee of employability of workers (GOL), and the adoption of a strategic plan for new skills. The aim is to identify and anticipate the professional needs of companies, filling the gap of existing skills. To this end, a joint working group between the Ministry and the Regions was set up to launch in a shared way the content of the reform by the summer. It is essential to direct training on the basis of needs, paying close attention to the different starting points. For example, the basic skills of workers farther away from work, especially young people, must be taken into account as well as more advanced training for skilled workers. In this respect, we have introduced a number of specific measures in the Decree-A-Supports, which structurally link work integration to training. In this sense, the contract of reemployment and the establishment of a fund for the school of trades go in this direction. As regards the relocation grant, it appears that to date the instrument has not shown satisfactory results, both in the initial trial on the audience of the Naspi beneficiaries, and subsequently with reference to the beneficiaries of the citizenship income. In order to make the institution more effective in terms of employment outcomes, the use of the instrument within a broader spectrum of the reform of active labour policies is being considered within the above-mentioned working group set up with the Regions, which should be linked to the reform of social shock absorbers. Of course we need - as we are already doing - to continue the process of strengthening the centres and speeding up the procedures for selecting and hiring operators. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u39	Senator Floris has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u40	Mr Minister, after listening with interest to your policy lines and of course to those of the Government on the actions to be put on the ground for the world of work, I cannot show any particular hints of appreciation, for the simple reason that the feeling that prevails in me is that of concern. This concern does not end after having seen the mandatory communications of the INPS, which tell us that so far there have been 550,000 layoffs in 2020, which are in addition to the 900,000 of the previous year. And you can't think of those who will be there as soon as you kick off the release of the layoffs, because the date, which is already known to have arrived, is not at all early to try to cushion the blow. The reality is that the pandemic seems to have awakened from the torpor of many aspects of the world of work (and not only) that have been waiting for years to be faced with seriousness and responsibility, but that have always been postponed to date to be destined. The only actions that have really been taken are welfare policies aimed at closing holes for the needs of the moment, without a vision and without a perspective. Never has there been thought of and in-depth active labour and welfare policies for businesses and for youth and female employment, which continue to be penalised by the crisis. The transformation of the labour market is now an irreversible process and we have to take account of it. It is essential to give new tools to ensure the flexibility of work, so that it is conceived as a concept of the exploitation of work, the exchange of skills and experience, the fluidity of the market, avoiding to interpret it only as precariousness in a context of low employment. Everything has been focused on employment centers, without creating a synergy and a network on the territory that allows the encounter between supply and demand. Too much thought has been given to a center that finds work and not to paths of employability. We will certainly talk about this when we examine the PNRR, which devotes particular resources to cohesion and employment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u43	De Bonis (Misto). Mr President, the agricultural assistance centres (CAAs) have to sign a convention with Agea every year, which regulates their relations. Without such a convention, a CAA cannot operate. The 2020 Convention was submitted by Agea and the CAAs late at the end of January 2020, but it was not so much the delay to worry, but rather the content of the draft Convention, in which it was expected that, within a few months and in any case by the year, all the operators of the CAAs who access the information systems of Agea, such as the SIAN, would have to be employees of the CAAs or of the companies affiliated with them. The provision, unfortunately confirmed also in the final agreement, would have had the effect of closing and liquidation of the CAAs of the freelancers and the interruption of the working relations of the professionals who collaborate with the CAAs, causing the closure of hundreds of professional studies. With regard to this matter, in addition to having personally submitted several questions shared and also signed by many colleagues, the CAA of the freelancers has appealed to the TAR, which a few days ago issued a favourable judgment, which has finally done justice on an affair that had incredible: a measure that would have excluded thousands of professionals in spite of constitutional principles. Fortunately, this absurdity has been stopped: the measure of the TAR therefore supports our battles conducted in Parliament, but unfortunately in Italy, President, politics often gives way to the judiciary. I hope that Mr Patuanelli will now take account of the TAR ruling and act accordingly against the Agea Summit, which is also affected by conflict of interest. The issue could be resolved with a bonamente with an annulment in autoguarda; instead the Agea with its director Pagliardini and with the silence of the former minister Bellanova wanted to pull straight, perhaps to facilitate some big organization. We are still waiting for the judgments of three other associations (Canapa, Unicaa and Uniagronomi). We wait, therefore, for Agea, after these results, to cancel the convention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u46	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Colleagues, to achieve the objectives of the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan at 2030 on renewable energy production, the effort to be made is significant. Within ten years 55% of electricity needs from renewable sources will have to be met, with an essential contribution of photovoltaic production. To achieve this ambitious goal, solar energy production will have to be tripled without allowing attention to be paid to the environment and landscape. The term "agrivoltaic" means a hybrid use of agricultural land through the installation of photovoltaic systems on the ground or suspended. In the first case, it involves the consumption of soil, which will not be easy to return to nature or agriculture once the plant has ceased. Here emerges the contradiction of a renewable energy source that consumes another non-reproducible resource, the soil. Technological progress is taking giant steps in this area. The coexistence between photovoltaic plants and agro-food production could take place thanks to the suspended plants that guarantee the agricultural use of the underlying land, with the cultivation of varieties that would benefit from the reduction of solar radiation. The Crea is experimenting with these techniques with attention to the impact on the landscape, microflora and microfauna and on the ecosystem resilience capacity of the underlying soils. It should not be underestimated the environmental impact caused by hectares of panels below which will certainly be modified from the biotic point of view. Similarly, the beauty of the Italian landscape protected by Article 9 of the Constitution, a tourist attraction capable of generating an economy to which we cannot give up, must be safeguarded. Moreover, the creation of plants on agricultural land could lead to imbalances in the agricultural rental market, given that already now the cost of land for photovoltaics is triple compared to the ordinary. In my opinion, the National Energy Plan will have to provide for the installation of photovoltaic systems primarily on artificial areas - for example - to cover car parks with satin roads and squares in industrial areas, on the roofs of public and private buildings, outside the historic centers, on industrial and agricultural sheds, thus creating a model of widespread production. These plants will have to meet the objectives of the ecological transition without subtracting areas from rural activities and the protection of biodiversity. In expressing my personal opposition to the large photovoltaic parks that consume agricultural land, I hope that the Government will identify certain norms that limit the spread of these plants, ensure proportionality with the real energy needs of our country, avoiding speculative operations, and ensure the dismantling of the plants at the end of their life cycle [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-332.ana.u48	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 8 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 16.05 a.m.)
