ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:01 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u3	I communicate that on 23 June the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of the ecological transition: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 92 of 23 June 2021 laying down urgent measures for the strengthening of the Ministry of the ecological transition and in the field of sport" (2301).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Senators, with deep emotion I wish today to address a moved thought to Diana De Feo. A true friend, as well as an esteemed colleague, whom we all remember among the minds of this House in the 16th legislature. Brilliant woman of lively intelligence and profound culture, Diana De Feo has always understood journalism and cultural commitment as a mission of life. Passioni inherited from his father Italo, historian head of the press office of the National Liberation Committee, who Diana was able to interpret with grace, professionalism and constant dedication. From twenty years of collaboration with the "Almanac of the day after" to the many services realized as a special correspondent of TG1 for art and culture, his has always been an accurate journalism, of quality, a profession lived on every occasion with rigour, seriousness and intellectual honesty, expression of an unconditional love for the research and narration of truth. That same perspective of values marked his political commitment and parliamentary activity as a senator. I have still clear the memory of his passionate commitment as rapporteur for the bill, then unanimously approved by this Assembly, on the non sequestrability of the artistic goods lent to Italy for the exposure to the public by States or other foreign subjects; a measure that at the time could not complete its process, but that in subsequent legislative acts was the subject of similar initiatives by almost all political groups. The defence of our artistic heritage, in Italy and abroad, has been a constant of its public commitment, even after having withdrawn from active politics. There are many cultural initiatives linked to the preservation and promotion of the artistic, architectural and landscape wealth of Campania and Naples, in particular, that have seen her protagonist. Naples, the city that adopted it, had become an integral part of Diana's identity; it had helped to shape that spontaneity and that vital and contagious energy that we all loved in her. The news of his sudden disappearance was a source of deep sorrow for all those who, like me, had the privilege of knowing her, working alongside her and letting themselves be conquered by her passion and authenticity. With Diana De Feo she leaves us a woman of great humanity, always open to dialogue and sharing ideas. A sincere, spontaneous, free personality; a friend I have always admired for consistency of thought, generosity and strength of character. In memory of Senator Diana De Feo, I therefore invite the Assembly to tighten to the pain of her husband Emilio Fede, of her daughters Sveva and Simona, of her grandchildren and of her loved ones and to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u5	The next item is the statement by the Minister of Defence on the conclusion of the Italian military mission in Afghanistan. I call the Minister for Defence, Mr Guerini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking this House for the opportunity to explain, while the completion of the return home of our contingent is under way, the circumstances that led us to the conclusion of the mission to Afghanistan, the most important military commitment of our armed forces outside the national borders of the Second World War. Last June 8 I went to Herat for the last flag of our contingent: a touching and extraordinary moment with which a significant chapter in our history was closed. Today our Armed Forces are now close to the conclusion of an imposing logistic and operational effort, conducted with punctuality and security: another exceptional demonstration of professionalism on the part of our military, to which goes the most heartfelt thanks, mine and the Government, for the seriousness and effectiveness with which they play their role daily for security, both in the operating theaters and on the national territory. [[Applause]] It is not easy to condense twenty years of national effort in a few tens of minutes of intervention, just as it is equally difficult to give the deserved visibility to the dedication and the spirit of sacrifice that have animated the action of our more than 50,000 men and women in uniform that have alternated in these long years, flanked by the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and many non-governmental organizations, and that have helped to give the highest lustre to our country. In front of you and certainly to interpret your feelings, I would like to thankfully remind the 723 injured and with deep emotion the 53 Italian victims who lost their lives in the service of the Republic to bring stabilisation and peace to Afghanistan. [[Applause]] The extreme sacrifice of those who are no longer among us today must not be in vain and will be the basis of the initiatives that we will continue to take so as not to disperse the results obtained. Their memory will be indelible, certainly in the hearts of their families, to which my most affectionate thought goes, but also, I am sure, for the entire national community. The decision on the conclusion of the Resolute Support mission was taken by the Atlantic Council, as widely advertised, on 15 April, on a proposal from Washington, pursuant to the agreements between the US administration and the Taliban movement signed in Doha in February 2020. It was a difficult decision, reached at the end of a period of deep reflection within the framework of the Alliance on the future of the mission. During this period, I have often stressed, at ministerial meetings, the need to adhere to the principle of "in Together, Adjust Together, Out Together": we arrived together, we adapted together, we conclude together. A principle that has characterized NATO's entire stay in Afghanistan. We have therefore begun the return from the Asian country, where the Allied forces have been operating since 2001, after 9/11, when the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers upset the world, radically changing the paradigm of collective security. It is no coincidence that each of us remembers exactly where he was and what he was doing that day, feeling clear the perception that the world would no longer be the same as before. For the first time in the history of NATO, the United States invoked Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, calling on allies to assume responsibility, to which Italy did not escape, confirming the choice of being a producer of security and not only a user and resulting, following a decision shared by Parliament, among the first countries to make a concrete contribution in the fight against global terrorism. In order to give the right place to a commitment lasting twenty years, it must be remembered that the effort of the international community has not materialized only in a succession of military activities, of which the operation Resolute support has represented the last chapter. In fact, during these twenty years, intervention in Afghanistan has been essential for the reconstruction of the democratic and institutional fabric of the country, which since 2004 has a new Constitution, and to restore and strengthen those civil rights that the Taliban regime had violently suppressed, in particular towards women. The military dimension, particularly extensive and in some ways prevalent in terms of narration, has however been one of the fundamental guidelines of the international effort, in particular, especially in recent years, for the construction in Afghanistan of a national security apparatus able to guarantee stability and control of the territory. These activities have seen Italy play a leading role. Another key sector, to which the military component has guaranteed the essential security framework, has seen more than $76 billion in international aid in state-building activities, with the aim of ensuring economic development and the availability of services for the population. Our country's involvement in military operations aimed at the stabilisation of Afghanistan began on 7 October 2001. With the launch by the United States of the Operation Enduring freedom began a commitment, which saw us significantly present, in full coherence with the substantial, generous and supportive contribution, which Italy has always guaranteed in favour of international security. In 2005, the ISAF mission, which took over Enduring freedom, entrusted Italy with the role of lead nation in the western province of the country, as part of the expansion of the mission. This included the responsibility to take charge of the management of the provincial construction team (PRT), located in Herat. The experience of the PRT, finally concluded in 2014, highlighted the fruitful cooperation between the civilian component of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the military component of the Defence. This synergy has enabled, in nine long years, to carry out a considerable number of interventions, of which the Afghan population has benefited, especially that of the most rural areas of the country. Just to give a concrete connotation to this commitment, I think it is necessary to point out that, during the period in which Italy had the responsibility of the province of Herat, our staff carried out civil and military cooperation projects, for a consideration of more than 46 million euros, which included the construction of 82 schools, 37 medical-hospital facilities, 784 wells and the construction of more than 100 kilometers of roads and more than 30 infrastructures for the security forces and various Afghan institutions. They are all important works, which represent a result, which fully testifies and further confirms the important goals achieved by our country in Afghanistan, especially in providing concrete answers to the actual needs of the population, always adopting the recognition and promotion of the priorities of those communities. These are teachings that we have treasured and that today distinguish our co-operation in many areas of crisis, where the Defense is strongly engaged, such as Iraq or the Sahel. Since 1 January 2015, NATO has launched the Resolute support mission, which is about to conclude. It is a non-combat operation, focused on training, counselling and assistance to Afghan security forces. The legal framework of the mission was provided by the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), signed in Kabul on 30 September 2014 and subsequently ratified by the Afghan Parliament on 27 November of the same year. This agreement defined, in full agreement with the Afghan institutions, the limits, terms and conditions under which NATO forces were allowed to operate in the country, as well as the mandate of the mission and the activities to be carried out. The number of troops deployed in Afghanistan as part of this mission was around 9,600 units, to which Italy contributed with the qualified presence of over 900 soldiers and the responsibility of the province of Herat. Over the last five years, the national contingents alternating in Afghanistan have carried out training, advice and assistance activities for the Afghan counterpart in many areas; in addition to the purely operational one, also in complementary areas, such as financial planning and logistics. Overall, more than 53,000 activities have been carried out (a number that I do not believe need comments), all of a very high level, with the direct or indirect training of more than 20,000 Afghan soldiers. Finally, with regard to the mandate of our contingent, it notes the continuation of activities in the sphere of civil and military cooperation, aimed at improving the living conditions of the population; a commitment that has resulted in 2,200 projects worth EUR 12 million, bringing the total, from 2004 to today, to about 58 million national funds used in favour of Afghan communities. Turning now to the decision taken in Brussels last April, as I said, it was not easy. The Alliance had made it clear that staying would almost certainly lead us to a return of the military confrontation with the Taliban, which were already preparing for a broad spring offensive, in fact leading to a deterioration of security conditions and distorting the Resolute support mission, dimensioned on the objectives that had been shared with Afghan institutions, i.e. training and advice. This is the basis of the Alliance's decisions, in line with the expectations of the Doha agreements that I mentioned earlier, precisely to reduce the risk, however present, of increasing violence and well aware of the problems associated with a return activity. I want to share with you the consideration of how complex it is, in terms of organization and planning, also a retreating activity such as the one we are conducting, perhaps even more than the very beginning of a mission. That is precisely why today my commitment as Minister of Defence is aimed primarily at carrying out, in agreement with the allies, the orderly and safe return of our contingent at home. I can say that the operations are proceeding, from the military point of view, according to the plans established, with the return of the staff and the influx of the materials from Afghanistan to the logistic poles (ports and airports) in various Countries of the region, for the subsequent loading on naval carriers and aircraft that will carry out their routes of return to Italy. To date 280 of our military have been repatriated and have already flown from the Afghan operating theatre more than 70 percent of the means and materials to Italy. In this context, in coordination with the Afghan commands, it was also considered whether to leave part of the logistics and materials considered useful by them at the disposal of the armed forces and local security. A significant effort, which the IOC defense summit operational command has orchestrated and is conducting effectively and will end shortly according to planning. In addition to being engaged in the re-entry of the national contingent, the Defense is also taking charge of an activity of humanitarian transport of the Afghan civil personnel that has collaborated with the Italian forces, called "Operation Aquila." Our collaborators, at the end of the operations of arrival, reception and medical prophylaxis, with the conduct of quarantine at civil and military structures, will be included in the system of reception and national integration, by the Ministry of the Interior. To date, the Afghan personnel who have requested it and who have proved to be in possession of all the requirements consists of 228 collaborators of the Armed Forces and their family members, of which 224 are already in Italy. I would call it a company in the company that represents, once again, our closeness and our reality towards the Afghan people, a necessary effort to protect the safety of the many Afghan citizens who over the years have witnessed our staff at various levels and who have been decisive for the achievement of the results I have previously listed. This is a clear message: those who work with Italy are not abandoned. As the mission's completion operations proceed, we have also set ourselves together with the allies the objective of continuing to support the Republican institutions and the Afghan people in the forms and modalities that will be defined both in NATO and in a possible bilateral dimension. The rise of violence, as I anticipated, was predictable and, in part, awaited, but seems to be primarily aimed at exerting pressure on the Afghan security forces in view of the resumption of peace talks. This does not mean that the present situation on the ground is not for us, as well as for all the allies, a source of concern. The level of violence has increased and the attacks of the military and Oltranzist components of the Taliban movement have as their objectives not only, as mentioned, the Afghan security forces and the control of certain provinces, but also representatives of civil society. No less relevant, moreover, is the threat posed by jihadist terrorism and its branches in the country, on all Isis-Khorasan, which continues to have a strong capacity to recall the poorest provinces that insidiously have resumed to conduct kinetic activities. In this complex context, the Republican institutions of Afghanistan are today called to protect democracy and ensure the country's very hold; the institutions that have certainly benefited from international support, which has ensured a greater solidity. This delicate challenge, in any case, as has been the case in the last twenty years, although in different ways, will see NATO and other international partners engaged in support of Afghan security forces, which will be assured primarily of economic and financial livelihood. One might wonder in what form the Alliance intends to continue its efforts. It is a legitimate question in the face of the efforts that have been made to date and the sacrifices that our country has also supported in this context with a role certainly as a protagonist. During the Foreign and Defence Ministerial Meeting, which I attended together with Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio and which stated the term 'Resolve support', the Nations decided that the goal of NATO's post-mission commitment is to preserve the best that has been achieved so far, continuing to contribute to the development of Afghan security and defence institutions, so that the country does not become again a safe paradise for terrorism. This also serves to counter the narrative of abandonment, which would only give strength to extremist positions. NATO's new concept of support includes three components: the establishment of the office of NATO's High Representative of Civil Affairs, a task today held by one of our compatriots, Ambassador Pontecorvo; support for the functionality of the hospital and airport in Kabul, whose security is essential for maintaining the presence of the diplomatic component; training, understood as training and capacity development, outside the country of the Afghan defence and security forces, with particular attention to the special forces, which have proved to be fundamental for the fight against the Taliban and terrorist formations. To date, the Alliance, as in the final statement of the recent NATO summit, has in fact confirmed its willingness to maintain a significant commitment, including through the provision of trust funds to support Afghan security forces, until 2024. We are, therefore, in a new phase in which all the allies, even if with different nuances, are giving convergent signals about the will to continue their commitment in ways consistent with the new scenario. The Italian Defense, together with the other Departments concerned, is actively participating in the interlocations in place, in order to identify the best forms for our active role in the future commitment of the Alliance, capitalizing on the credibility obtained in these twenty years. I would also add that, in the course of my frequent contacts with my fellow defence ministers, I am verifying their national positions to identify possible synergies, especially with regard to training outside the country of Afghan forces. In the meantime, we are finalising the framework agreement with the Ministry of Defence of Kabul, which is an enabling instrument and an indispensable legal basis for starting future bilateral activities. As a result, we will not leave any plans for not dispersing the results obtained in four luxuries of heavy commitment, both in terms of the security and development of local forces as well as in the field of human rights, gender equality and civil liberties. However, today, in the face of the cessation of the international military presence in the country, it is necessary that the focus of the action of the NATO framework countries that have assumed the greatest responsibility for the continuous allied effort in diplomatic politics and civil cooperation, with the intensity and continuity necessary to support the Republican government and the Afghan population. For this purpose I believe that the presence of international diplomatic representations in the country is essential in the post-Resolve support mission (RSM) scenario, also to point out to the most radical fringes of the Taliban Movement that the international community does not intend passively to accept that the clock hands are carried back by a twenty-year period. In this sense, the support of the Ministry of Defence for the protection of diplomatic personnel and our representation will not be lacking, as will the possible involvement to support the security architecture of the capital. I wanted to highlight the critical elements with which the international community and Afghanistan are confronted, but I must also highlight some elements of significant positiveness. I am referring first of all to the Afghan forces which, after the initial and understandable sense of loss, seem to have now internalized the need to take control of their security and to be able to withstand the impact. They are the concrete result of our efforts, in particular with the Resolute support, whose purpose was precisely to promote a growth of competence and autonomy in the colleagues of the Afghan Armed Forces and Security. Today there are 186,000 soldiers and 121,000 members of the security forces of the Ministry of Interior who have been largely trained and equipped by NATO forces and who are already making effective use of what they have learned. This is certainly a result of our presence in that country, just as all the progress made from the social point of view, in particular with regard to civil rights, among all that to education, and the rights of women who have acquired important roles in Afghan society, have proved concrete. Just yesterday, in the context of a conference on gender equality in military operations organized by our operational command forces, I had the opportunity to meet Maria Bashir, attorney general of the Province of Herat, a woman prepared, courageous and authoritative [[Applause]] , who, like all the women in the country during the Afghan government, had been forced to leave her job and lock herself in the house. Today, with courage and not without risk, it plays this very important role in Afghan society. This leads me to ask myself and ask ourselves what Afghanistan would have been without these twenty years of presence and work side by side with the rulers and the population and what the impact would have been on the international security framework. Our work has been important for that country, for its population and also for our security. The decision to conclude the mission is not an abandonment of the field; the missions begin, develop, adapt to the change of the scenarios - and Afghanistan is a plastic demonstration - are concluded or rather, as in this case, evolve identifying different forms of support. However, it is essential that the commitment of the international community and its focus on Afghanistan never fail and today in particular focus on the need to resume and strengthen intra-Afghan peace negotiations. In fact, the solution of the conflict, together with the continuation of the support to the security forces, is the main way for a truly peaceful country, which can count on the stability of its institutions. Having said that, I would like to reiterate that today the main commitment, both mine and all the joints of the Dicastery, is that of the return of our staff in full safety in a particularly complex and not without risks. In starting to conclude this intervention, I believe it is necessary to point out that the armed forces, after these twenty years, have professionally grown, thanks to the experiences carried out in a context of high complexity such as the Afghan one: we have improved the ability to projection, command and control, the professional preparation and the equipment of means, in comparison with an extremely challenging operating environment. The Italian military have worked successfully, balancing our propensity to be close to the local population with the ability to conduct, alongside Afghan security forces, high-intensity military operations. This is an important legacy, which the Armed Forces have been able to capitalize and re-employ in an extremely effective way, in all the operating circumstances that see them engaged today in the many theaters of crisis in which Italy carries out an appreciated work in the service of international security and stability. Let me conclude, also for this reason, by expressing once again the gratitude of our institutions to our military, our women and our men in uniform [[Applause]] , for the precious work they do and for how they do it. Wherever they are committed in the world to the protection of international security, they constantly demonstrate, as happened in the twenty years of our presence in Afghanistan, that they believe deeply in their work to contribute, even at the cost of important sacrifices, to the realization of better living conditions in the lands in which they operate, places which, unfortunately, have often seen so much suffering. The whole of Italy must be grateful to them, because through them the country has demonstrated (and continues to do so) that it is always up to the challenges we are called to face. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u7	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Defence. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, like you, I know very well the Afghan story, having lived in Afghanistan for six months (fascinating and terrible, on the other hand) in 2005, when that country excited us for the first time with the electoral vote and the participation of women. I remember a lot of the brave ones, but this is the past. This mission is one of the longest (for the United States it is longer than the Vietnam war), so it is clear that there are many concerns: for example, the ceasefire negotiated between Americans and Taliban covers only international forces, so it must be extended. Moreover, while attacks on international forces have decreased, internal violence against the civilian population has increased considerably. I do not know about moderate Taliban, but they may have moderated over the years. Therefore, from this point of view, the concern to go back on fundamental issues such as human rights (for all, not only for women) is palpable, as well as the violence that explodes more and more, claimed by strange non-moderate Islamic groups (I don't know what we want to call them). However, the withdrawal of military forces has now been decided by the Afghan Government in office, Ghani's, without enthusiasm, so to speak, but also with some concern, which it has expressed in a public and obvious way. However, we cannot abandon this ground. One of the proposals that women and parts of civil society have made to the European Parliament is the establishment of an international commission of inquiry, similar to others in various parts of the world, to have some witnesses who remain on the ground in defence of what has been achieved so far and which should not be cancelled with a barbaric return. Mr. Minister, I'll make you two proposals. The first, that of the commission, in the Human Rights Council in Geneva, which opened a few days ago and which will close on 15 July, has already received the support of other countries. I think it would be a good thing for the role it has played so far that Italy should now become, as is said in the jargon, the pen holder of this resolution which Norway has undertaken to bring to the Security Council, of which it is a member. These are the last six months of Italian presence in the Human Rights Council and for the Afghans and we believe it would be useful and a good step for this initiative to take place, pushed by the Italian Government (together with the others, of course), so as not to seem like those who pack and leave. We all hope that the agreement with the moderate Taliban will come to fruition, but we must do our part. I therefore ask you to look carefully at this proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u9	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u10	Mr President, Minister, coming to the Senate this morning, I was thinking about the kind of speech I should have done. Above all, as happens from time to time, I asked myself: is it worth saying what I think or must I try to have the hypocrisy that we politicians sometimes have? (I'm talking about myself, referring to us politicians.) At this point, as far as I'm concerned, I might as well say what I think: I no longer have to make a career, so the problem is not about my prospects, but about myself and what I think about the future of our country. Then I want to tell you that if I were the Minister of Defence, I would have said exactly what you said. I therefore want to clear the field of the idea, which we sometimes have, that, when we are in Parliament, we say things more easily, without realizing how the government is doing. You, Minister, have said the things a man of state has to say about this. We, who are Parliament, can say the things that we share 100% and also the reality of the beliefs that we lack. Minister, one thing on which I believe no Italian can depart a millimeter from what he said is that the Italian Armed Forces have given an extraordinary proof of what it means to carry the Tricolor around the world; they have done so with military actions and peace, with the governments of the right, left or centre: they have always done so. In these twenty years the Italian Armed Forces - you did well to remember - have grown in terms of professionalism, consideration and respect in the world. And if Italy still has a glimmer of foreign policy, this is also possible and to a large extent for the actions of our military in peace missions. Fifty-three men and women have fallen in Afghanistan: fifty-three Italians who sacrificed themselves for the greatest mission made by us as Italian Armed Forces after the Second World War; it is an immense thing. If we add to these fallen those of Nassirya and the other military missions of peace, we realize the enormous price that many Italian families have paid. We are proud of our fallen ones, but at the same time we must say that they cannot have fallen in vain and that all this was an answer to the meaning of history. I believe that in fact these fallen did not die in vain, because it made sense the path we took. We have done so because, when we are in an international community, we are together with others to fight for principles and values. It made sense, as Senator Bonino recalled from the top of her experience and as you said, that women who were marginalized and locked in their homes have become protagonists of Parliament and the government of the country. It makes sense that people's rights could be affirmed, but at this point I'm staying here. You, Minister, have said a just and terrible phrase to me at the same time: the clock cannot go back to twenty years ago, we cannot allow it. Minister, as a citizen and as an Italian I trust you that you are very afraid that this will happen, because I do not trust at all that this withdrawal can give rise to a new season of an open Taliban government. Even today, the Taliban, who are not in the government, point out that women will certainly be able to continue to work, naturally respecting the sacred principles of the Islamic codes, but it seems to me a way to put and begin introducing very serious wedges on this. In other words, if, in a few years' time, we were to acknowledge that the rights of women have taken enormous steps backwards, that the Afghan army - as I fear - is in no way capable of stabilising the situation on the ground and guaranteeing security, then inevitably all public opinion would ask itself the terrible question: But did we return with the watch twenty years ago? It is not a question to which Dragons, Guerini or the Italian Government can answer. Unfortunately, the answer is much bigger than we are and, even in cultural terms, we must start trying to give it to us with a serious political dialogue on the world that we want to build. Yesterday I made a complaint here on the issue of Nicaragua, where all the opposing presidential candidates in Ortega were arrested. Someone told me that this is irrelevant: of course, elections are held and everyone who comes against me will have them arrested. We then have Myanmar and San Suu Kyi, which was also contested by the West, who understood everything about these things: in fact, they have put her under arrest, the generals have returned, the kids are thrown into jail and the key is lost, but all this is irrelevant, because we are for human rights. I have always contested the idea that we can export democracy as a model: let's say that, we make up a democratic model and export it, regardless of customs and customs. This certainly cannot be exported in these terms, but there must be natural rights, so to speak, that countries must respect. I realize that my own is the expression of a concern, to which a man of government can only respond by saying that these are reflections that will obviously be made. I am afraid, however, that even the American administration, which is born under the banner of the right rediscovery of multilateralism and the concept of a West that must defend democracy, risks then, when certain things materialize, finding a path steeped in obstacles. In any case, Minister, I support your approach, in the sense that the Italian Government has moved in an impeccable way and could not do otherwise: at a time when the Americans and the coalition decide in international fora to return home, we certainly could not continue a mission unilaterally. We have done our duty - and we are proud of it - and we continue to do so in so many parts of the world. We must also make public opinion understand what is important today, for the shared values of which Italy is certainly a flag bearer in the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u11	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u12	Mr President, Mr Guerini, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the return of our boys, women and men from our armed forces in Afghanistan since October 2001. To all of them goes a heartfelt and warm thank you. In the first place, it is close to the families of those 53 soldiers who, unfortunately, during those years in Afghanistan, have been victims of an attack or an accident, who in these days can only experience a renewed deep pain in the memory of their loved ones who cannot benefit from the withdrawal in progress. Our most heartfelt thanks also go to all the women and men who have served our country with devotion and worked for the peace and stabilisation of a region as rugged, difficult and dangerous as Afghanistan. We share their relief and how their loved ones feel to see them return home safely. Currently there are 900 soldiers who make up our Italian mission, but in all these years there have been over 50,000 soldiers who participated in the operation. We spent more than twenty years there, inside the military base that was the center of the activities of the Italian contingent sent at the time because of the attack on the Twin Towers, with the aim to eradicate the terrorist cell of Al Qaida, defeat the Taliban and assure the country of the restoration of political and civil freedoms and the normal exercise of fundamental rights. Minister Guerini, twenty years later it was a great emotion to see our tricolor lowered at the base of Herat. Through this symbolic gesture it is as if we had quickly retraced the images of the many valuable actions carried out in these two decades by our military in Afghanistan: the rescue of so many human lives; the numerous cooperation projects aimed at supporting a people afflicted by terrorism; the training courses for young people and women; the support of the institutions to encourage them to promote processes of democratization; the construction of schools, hospitals, roads and public infrastructure, as Minister Guerini has well recalled in his speech. All this after for years the Taliban regime, in a completely arbitrary way, had strongly marked the fate of the Afghan people, through a reactionary policy, based on the use of terror and violence. For example, he had inflicted brutal mutilation on the population responsible for small crimes; he had not hesitated to send to the scaffold people arrested for minor crimes; he had closed women's schools, excluding women from public life; he had destroyed archaeological monuments of extraordinary value; he had forbidden music, movies and television, forcing men to grow beards and women to use burqa. In short, he had imposed an ideological fanaticism based on the use of violence and fear. It is no wonder that many people in Afghanistan today look with apprehension at the withdrawal of international troops. Many fear the restoration of a repressive regime, or the outbreak of a new civil war. Unfortunately, the Taliban are still strong - you can see that, alas, even in these days - and they have been even stronger since the former President Trump decided to negotiate the withdrawal by agreeing bilaterally only with them, strengthening their power and weakening at the same time the Afghan institutional government, excluded from the negotiating table. The bilateral agreement between the Taliban and Washington signed in Doha in February 2020 put an end to the conflict between the Americans and the guerilla in black turban, but not to that between the Taliban and government forces. The peace agreement in Afghanistan provides for the total withdrawal of foreign soldiers, but it does not impose a ceasefire or a reduction in violence. President Biden has decided to make his own the choices of a progressive decommitment of the United States in that area, wanted and thought already by President Barack Obama, but the whole is not without contradictions. In fact, as we Westerners leave, we do not leave a peaceful territory. This is why we in Italy Viva are also concerned about the timing of the withdrawal from Afghanistan of the various international quotas. Minister, we respect the decision taken to withdraw our troops from Afghanistan, also because we are aware that it is exercised in the wake of that Atlantic Alliance that our country is recovering with the current Government, after a past stage of ambiguity in foreign policy relations, and the principle " together in, together out " applies. In the same way, we can only detect the dangers behind this decision: we fear that it may be a premature departure and that it may start a new wave of hatred in the country. All those who have helped our missions are now afraid to suffer retaliation. Our country, in a valuable way, is already helping the Afghan interpreters and, in general, the civilian personnel who supported our contingent, gradually providing their humanitarian transport. 270 people will be transferred to Italy, between collaborators and relative family members, and the possibility of transferring another 400 Afghans for the collaboration given to our contingent over the years: a noble intervention, but of course only applicable to individual recipients. And there is all the rest of the population, who is now in danger of paying for the consequences of the Western retreat, also in a complicated period. The first warnings have already been seen in Jalalabad, in eastern Afghanistan, where armed men have targeted vaccination teams, killing several staff members and wounding three others. Italy does not forget - I quote you, Minister - who in recent years has collaborated with our military in Afghanistan. We allow ourselves to add that Italy does not forget even the entire Afghan people and that we remain committed to their peace and salvation, despite the very complicated situation. Of course, it is comforting to know that NATO will continue to provide training and financial support to Afghan national security and defence forces, including through the maintenance of diplomatic relations, through the office of a High Civil Representative in Kabul, as well as the provision of ad hoc funding to ensure the operation of the international airport in that city all important and valid forecasts. However, the conditions must now be created so that the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan does not mean ending relations with the country. It is time to open a new chapter, confirming the commitment to remain at the side of Afghanistan, its people and its institutions, so as to continue to support the ongoing peace process and promote internal and international security, in an attempt to preserve the achievements which have been laboriously achieved over the last twenty years and to prevent the country from becoming, unfortunately, a reservoir of possible future terrorist attacks. Many Afghans - and we with them - fear that peace will turn out to be a deception, with the Taliban waiting for nothing more than the departure of the Westerners to overthrow a government that is far too weak, so as to restore their regime. This is unacceptable, because it would be a terrible disappointment if a hasty retreat opened the door to a new obscurantist era in Afghanistan. The Afghans and above all the Afghans do not deserve it and neither do the women and men of our Armed Forces, who in recent years have spent so much effort and dedication for the stabilisation of Afghanistan. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u13	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u14	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Guerini for his presentation, which has convinced me in many respects, even though I have to criticize the decision to come to this House for what has been done. I know very well that it would not have changed much: we are responding to an Atlantic logic and to decisions that we are taking part in, but on which we cannot affect more than that. However, I believe that this Parliament deserved to be able to hold this debate before the withdrawal of troops began. It is not a formal, but substantial fact, also of respect for those who have held high the name and prestige not only of the Armed Forces, but of all Italy. Allow me, therefore, to make this criticism. Soon after, however, I would like to note that my friend, Senator Casini, felt the need to introduce his excellent speech with the statement that he had to say what he thought, almost as if it was something that usually cannot be done in this House. Since I agree with what you said (I want to remind you that you have to be proud of our soldiers, who have been good in these years of hard mission and who have not died in vain), do you need not have political expectations, as you said, President Casini, to say this? It's not a criticism of you. This is the aspect that has worried me most in recent years, namely that our mission should be looked at - by some, not by all - with suspicion; that our soldiers and our women (because there were boys, mature men and women with stars in Afghanistan) should not have the proper day-to-day recognition by the defence ministers. I see Senator Pinotti: it has always been recognized by her, as by Guerini, from right to left; when you are at the top of that structure that is the Ministry of Defence you realize and, beyond the political positions, you end up appreciating, defending and understanding the effort and sacrifice that that wonderful youth carries out in the name of Italy. [[Applause]] Sorry I'm self-referential now. This was my concern, in the short period in which I was Minister: to be able to say openly - and until then it did not happen - that they were not only there to build roads and distribute mineral water and balloons to children, but for a peace mission that also involved the hard fight and the risk of life. And this was paid not only by 53 Italians, but also by 3,600 soldiers of the mission: 53 Italians and 3,600 men and women gave their lives. It is right then to question: was it worth it? I wonder today, as I asked myself when I was Minister of Defence. Every time I had to go to the airport to receive the bodies of the fallen - and it was too many: had it been even one, it would still be too many - I was wondering: is it worth it? It is a terrible question, which I believe has always been asked, every time our men and our girls and women with stars are asked to carry out their task at the risk of their lives. They gave me the answer, Mr President. The first time (one of the many) that I went to Afghanistan, at some point I asked the officers who had accompanied me from Italy to leave me only with those who participated in the mission, with the military. I asked them if I could help: I thought they asked me for more food, more licenses, more material advantages; they asked me for more helicopters, to better carry out their mission, in which they believed and for which they were ready to do their duty to the full. They gave me the answer like this. When the work they have done in recent years comes to mind, it does not seem to me that the advantage has been only for Afghan women, for Afghan young people and men or for Afghan institutions, which have greatly benefited from these missions, this mission and the sacrifice of our military. Think about women, the quality of life and the way of life before, during and - hopefully - after, but I too have the doubts that I have heard in this House. It was not only that, however: we often underestimate the other great result, which is at home, because those men and women who went there to fight for peace kept as far away as possible the danger of terrorism from our home. This result is underestimated. Perhaps the main reason why that mission made sense was to make it clear that terrorism could not organise itself freely and that, if it did, it would have to pay a price. This result has been achieved over the last twenty years: honour of merit. [[Applause.]] Stability and control are different. Men like the first Italian to lead an International security assistance force (ISAF), General Bertolini, or General Vecciarelli, who now commands the return to Italy and who has commanded the last phase of the mission, have known the value, the boldness or, simply, the dedication to their duty of these men and women. They have known the collaboration, Minister, not only of 228 (or 224), but of many more. Without wanting to make controversy, how many thousands of individuals from the African coast arrive in Italy today and find welcome, wanted or suffered, from Italy? I'm 400 on the waiting list! But you know very well that there are others. From this point of view, all those who have also had a minimum contact and who have contributed to our Italian mission must be welcomed in Italy, without whether or not. They are not second-class immigrants, but people who want to stay close to us. [[Applause]] Mr President, I conclude by saying that it was inevitable and right that this mission should be concluded. Perhaps we should have had the courage, in recent years, to go further, to play that role of peace, but with even greater means, to allow Afghanistan today not to take the risk, which runs, of returning to what it was twenty years ago. I don't know what's gonna happen. I know today... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u15	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u16	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Guerini for the important speech he has made this morning in this House. As the Minister recalled, we all remember where we were on 11 September 2001. The attack on the Twin Towers was a shock for the whole world and from there the mission starts: as has been recalled, for the first time Article 5 of the NATO Treaty is used, with an allied state being attacked, and starts, with great emotion and also concern, an international coalition. The Enduring Freedom mission was born, and the United States wanted to be led initially by a coalition of the willing, a coalition of willing leaders of which the United States was the head. I remember that because then I had a doubt about this: I wondered why, since there was such a broad international consideration, I did not immediately decide on an international command, with a NATO command, which in fact happens, with the ISAF mission. Enduring freedom is immediately a highly anti-terrorist mission, while ISAF begins to contain - with the construction of the Provincial Recontruction Team (PRT), but continuing the counter-terrorism struggle - a stabilisation intervention of Afghanistan, then arriving at Resolute support, as the Minister recalled. The terrorist bases to be opposed were in a very difficult territory, on the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan, where it was very dangerous to arrive. This counter-action was therefore not easy: it was a tough battle and, as my colleague Mr La Russa said, our military also fought, because it was a moment of great contrast between international forces and terrorism. There is one element that marked the Italian contingent from the beginning (I remember it in the words that General Del Vecchio, who was also our colleague and commander of the ISAF mission): on one of the very first occasions when I met him, in his still military role, he said that it was essential, in order to fight terrorism, to have the Afghan population on our side. We must therefore be careful, because some attacks, if they are not well targeted, affect the civilian population, and unfortunately they have happened. Hate against us does not help us to conquer the people in the fight against terrorism. This has always been the first concern of our armed forces. Minister Guerini told us how many schools, hospitals and wells have been built, not because our armed forces do things that NGOs can do. [[Applause]] : if these are needed, they operate these. The armed forces do this because they know that, in the fight against terrorism, but also in the will to stabilize and democratize the territory, there is a need to have the consent of the population, which no longer becomes a possible ally of the terrorists, which can happen if we are seen as enemies or occupants. So this has always been our concern. I want to tell another example, which gives the idea of how our Armed Forces moved. It was necessary to search homes where explosives or weapons were supposed to be kept and often there were women, not men. For Afghan culture, it was an affront for men to enter a house with women present and search it. Therefore, our military immediately set up a team of women, so that if they had to enter homes with women present, they would be the ones to search. Of course, if there was a real risk, it was necessary to enter, it could not be done otherwise, but this was done precisely to avoid such a contrast. I am therefore making a first reflection: with the mission in Afghanistan it was decided to go boot on the ground with soldiers of the international coalition in a country and this instrument was then used also in Iraq. As you know, in the fight against ISIS another type of intervention has been decided, deciding to help the military of those nations, Iraq or Syria, to intervene against terrorism. The reflection to be done on this is that, when the international community moves, it is always necessary to choose the most congenial instrument to the objective that we set ourselves. In that case, the situation was objectively dramatic from the point of view of the spread of terrorism and therefore you can understand also that type of choice, but on how you use the boots on the ground Italians always have something to teach the world. There is another point I would like to remind this House. The moment the international coalition arrives in Afghanistan and the first victories on the Taliban begin, a democratic process opens, the 2004 elections are in place and a great confidence in Afghan public opinion opens up. Women go to vote, everyone goes out with their fingers dirty with ink to show that they voted, there was a huge participation, in the electoral law it is decided that 25% of the elected must be women; in short, there has been a great openness of trust. But then those governments, sometimes out of inability or because they did not agree, often even because of corruption, did not meet the expectations of the Afghan people and slowly the confidence that democracy really brought about a change has failed; and therefore, for example, participation in the elections has subsided. The second consideration I want to make (the first is how one intervenes as an international coalition) is then the following: in order to free oneself from terrorism and to build democratic paths, not only the intervention of the military forces, but also how one helps this State to really build itself and to give answers, in infrastructure and economy. Otherwise, it remains an initiative that risks not moving forward and which has difficulties. Along with the effort (we had not yet won), it was decided to decrease the troops of the international coalition. Meanwhile, however, the warlords continued to exist, Afghan GDP continued to be 20-30 percent linked to opium poppy cultivation and the warlords of this fed. In Afghanistan's difficulty, this is also something that has been tried to counter, but it has been very difficult. Our cooperation had come to replace the cultivation of opium poppy with saffron, because it is nevertheless a very valuable element. But, in such a complicated situation, the warlords went to destroy the saffron crops; it was therefore a noble attempt, but it encountered a whole series of difficulties. We have also done many cooperation projects, for example with women's working cooperatives, because women have been - as has been pointed out by many - the most affected by the Taliban regime. In cities it was easier, but Afghanistan is largely composed of rural areas. There was only one great road that joined him and many villages were not even reachable. When Emma Bonino was sent to Europe, we met and she was following the elections. I remember an episode, which I want to quote here too. A young Afghan woman decides to run for election: she collects the necessary money and signatures and then goes on a journey with her brother, because she had to deposit her candidacy in a place that was two or three days away from where she lived. The brother robbs her of the money and the signatures and runs for the election. The international commission is aware of this story, which helps the girl to collect her signatures again; this is to give you the idea of the complication of the democratic process with respect to the situation in Afghanistan. I'm going to conclude. Great role of our military and great recognition of their ability to intervene with attention towards the population, which does not mean not to do their own profession as military, but to have those alliances that serve to do it better. I would also like to remember with emotion, emotion and sorrow the 53 soldiers who have fallen. [[Applause]] Lucky for me, when I was in charge of the Ministry, I didn't have to receive dead soldiers on a mission. But I remember, because I attended all the funerals, the encounter with these families torn by pain; it is an incredible pain, that you do not... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Unbelievable this, unbelievable. So, Minister, perhaps to remember this sacrifice it would be nice to imagine a memorial reminiscent of all of our victims. [[Applause]] I think it would be right to remember their sacrifice and extraordinary heroism in intervening in that situation. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u17	I must say that I am always sorry to interrupt and turn off the microphone, which actually shuts down automatically when the time set for the Conference of Leaders has expired. Since, however, there has been a long period in which I always let everyone finish their reasoning, as perhaps it was right that it was, this has given rise to strong controversy in this House for the granting of half a minute in more or half a minute less. That is why we have arrived, in agreement with all the Groups, at the determination that we have to adjust ourselves to the time that has been set because then the microphone is automatically turned off. I say this because of the sense of embarrassment that I myself, every time, try to interrupt the thread of a speech, but I was forced to do so because of the controversy that this House has generated every time about the minutes and the seconds that were granted to one or the other. I invite you, then, please, to take into account the appointed times and to treat your discourse on the times so as not to give rise to the controversies that you yourselves have generated. I am frankly sorry every time to see a certain disappointment when one does not finish one's reasoning. She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his information, who has given us a lot of information and information that I believe can be useful to us. I am sorry about today's debate in this House, as only information is provided. We too can only associate ourselves not only with the memory, but also with the thanks of the whole House for our 53 soldiers who have lost their lives in Afghanistan. Today I believe that the debate in this House is also a recognition for the victims and for the great work done. I am obliged, however, to say that we perhaps need an additional debate, which may be held in the competent foreign and defence committees, because I believe that we are faced with a picture, as many speakers have pointed out, and as you yourself, Minister, have done, that we leave in Afghanistan full of unknowns. I daresay it's more than just unknown. We all know that after the Doha agreement, the Taliban no longer hit international forces, but turned to the Afghan authorities and above all - this is the greatest danger - towards civil society. You understand that this is a very worrying and alarming picture. Of course you know, since we know everyone's stories in this House, that I had many doubts about that mission; doubts about what? On the idea that we could, as then happened for Iraq, export democracy in this way. I have to say that after twenty years, although perhaps doubts are different, I believe that we absolutely need to discuss to the full the question of how to intervene in many countries - we talked about it yesterday - where universal human rights are being put at risk every day and in question. But there is also another problem: it is clear that after all these years, the idea that we can return to the situation we found twenty years ago cannot but be questioned, as many observers are doing all over the world, about the fact that in the end it would be necessary to admit the failure of the operation. That is the great concern. Why did the operation fail? Here is the request because today is the time of the requests. The work that the Italian Armed Forces have done, not only in Afghanistan but also elsewhere, has always stood out because we have been close to the civilian population, we have done very important operations precisely to help the civilian population and to promote rights. I think that this must be our concern; we must continue to do so, as Senator Bonino has suggested. I started to take care of the women of Kabul with the initiative "A flower for Kabul". We must support these initiatives and continue to work because women's rights, human rights... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u19	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u20	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Information. We too join in a series of critical but problematic reflections that I believe are also in the depths of his conscience. I do not want to use rhetoric, but I think it is necessary, even on the part of our Group, to remember the growth that the Afghan mission has represented, as you yourself said, for the whole of our sector and for all our armed forces, over twenty years, with an important commitment, with so many women and men who have measured themselves in the field. We have been appreciated by all and, therefore, in addition to helping that population, certainly this mission was an opportunity to demonstrate, as happened in other international missions, that our armed forces respond at the time of the call, have been able to modernize themselves and acquire a wide capacity for intervention. So much so that the Forza Italia Group has always voted in favour of international military peace missions both when it was in majority, and when it was in opposition and sometimes, when the vote could serve to save a government that we fought on other fields, we did not hesitate to give our vote, which was a vote on the international role of Italy and in support of our Armed Forces. We have always done so, putting forward a strategic vision, national interest and solidarity with the Armed Forces. As you mentioned, there were 53 casualties and 723 injuries. It was a costly, painful and important mission. Was it fair to pay this price? I ask because these are the debates people are having. We say it was right. That mission, in fact, was decided (she recalled the historical events) in the aftermath of that dramatic and tragic September 11 that changed the course of history, so it was a response to an imaginable attack. We wouldn't have imagined that we were wearing masks on our faces in our cities because of a planetary pandemic, and we wouldn't have imagined that planes would fit into the skyscrapers in New York. The millennium holds us tragic and difficult surprises, which are to be faced in a different way. We have done that mission and NATO has changed a bit, not in its nature: you have also mentioned the article on which NATO decided to intervene, but it had not done so before, so it was an exceptional affair. I see the data of these days: from the news circulating it is said that in 50 of the 320 districts in which Afghanistan is articulated the Taliban - let's call them so - have already taken control of the territory; the Ghani government has had to change the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defense in these days; there is a situation of difficulty. You referred to drones, neighboring countries in which we will train, but we do not know what will happen. I don't want it to be some kind of Vietnam, on which I don't want to open a debate fifty or sixty years later; now Vietnam has changed, but when everyone left, North Vietnam conquered everything and Ho Chi Minh's design came true. I would not like to see this back in Afghanistan and therefore the human, life and economic sacrifice of the international community being thwarted. The data of the growth of Taliban forces in the territory are known and evident. But that is a country that we all know. When the Soviet Red Army occupied him, I was among those who praised the mujaheddin, who were then called so, we did not call them Taliban, the term had not entered into force. Mujaheddin were the champions of freedom who fought against the army. Those are the grandchildren, I mean they're combative people, living in an impervious, impossible place in the world, so I think about their tenacity, their resistance. I do not want to go back to the office of the six hundred or to the British events of a few centuries ago: it is an indomitable territory. We do not want to tame it or impose other logics, but in this case reference has been made to civil rights, to the harassment of women. Will we talk about this a lot in this House, sometimes we complain about Italy and then what do we do, abandon that country to a season of new obscurantism? We are very concerned about what can happen and I say it so that it remains in the Report to future memory; I would not want in a few years at the end the grandchildren of Bin Laden or the grandchildren of the mujaheddin (which we then saw in another way), taking back control of Afghanistan, controlling the country also for the trafficking of opium (all events that you know) that has developed, has increased, which means wealth and then means buying weapons, indoctrinating madrase. The ideological function of those territories is dramatic, it also reaches the clandestine mosques that can be in our cities: it is a supply chain. It is true that the story that shakes consciences so much these days originates from Pakistan, but they are neighboring and neighboring cultures. I am referring, with regard to women's rights, to what we are discussing these days in Italy, to the case of Saman, to situations that come into our home. We must not impose anything on anyone, but the values of democracy, coexistence, the rights of people, whatever sex and gender they belong to, are a bastion of Western democracies. That is why, in 2001, we went to Afghanistan and elsewhere: to affirm the victory of democracy and freedom over fundamentalist obscurantism. For this reason 53 Italians died: to assert these rights. [[Applause]] ! The matter has not been closed. What's the truth? I would also like to say something else at Parliament's level. We have voted on international missions dozens of times, as I mentioned at the start of my speech; we have adopted a law to limit the number of votes: we make an annual programming, we have also approved a framework law, since international missions are no longer an episodic fact, but an ordinary fact of our country. I thank you, on behalf of our Group, but I believe it is a shared sentiment, all our military, women and men engaged in all international contexts with great value and great self-denial. [[Applause]] All the Armed Forces and Carabinieri training security forces are invoked and demanded everywhere, and you, Minister, for the experience you are experiencing, know it better than we do. We have voted dozens of times on measures on international missions, but this time there has been no parliamentary debate on the issue of withdrawal from Afghanistan. We vote for the mission, but perhaps we need a debate with a vote on the end of the mission. The truth is that the United States has made a decision that has oriented everything else, due to the economic and military strength of the United States and their tendency to de-engage from some scenarios. Trump himself, when he was President, had this tendency; now there is President Biden, who knows well the international scenarios and has been Vice President for a long time, yet he has confirmed it. Some of my colleagues mentioned Obama. It seems to me, therefore, that we have taken note of a decision by the United States: without the United States, although we are good, heroic and courageous, an international presence is not imaginable. Parliament has therefore taken note of this decision, which will be reflected on the international balance of peace, on the resumption of fundamentalism, on the repercussions in Western countries and in our cities of the misplantation of fundamentalism, that even in those impervious mountains of Afghanistan is strengthened and then arrives in the heart of New York and cities, either with terrorism or with preaching. By the way, there is an international security problem. I'm sick of the fact that every time there's an attack, after five minutes you know who did it and its precedents; there are databases that know everything. But on an international level, could we not control these people and stop them first, instead of knowing their biography a second after they killed women and children in one stadium, on a promenade or somewhere else? It is a delicate subject, I know, but there is an international record of many of these people. True, preaching today can reach someone who is in front of the computer, who becomes an invaded person, exits the house and slits a person with a knife. But there are some subjects that are known and identified. We should also balance: there is a disengagement on the territory, so the international community should defend itself more within its borders. The issue is long and complex, my microphone flashes and the President rightly reminds us of respect for the times. Therefore, I stress the tribute to the armed forces, the appreciation of the missions and the military returning, the regret for the absence of a parliamentary debate - but it is a general criticism of the system, not an accusation to the Minister - about disengagement, since we frequently vote for the renewal of the commitment. It is a warning to the international community: let's not leave because we won, but let's leave because we leave, and God wants them not to win. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u21	Senator Candura is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u22	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank our Minister for the information and work he is doing. I join you in commemorating our fallen and celebrating the value of our Armed Forces. [[Applause]] I have heard a sentence from President Casini: the foreign policy of our country is carried out by our armed forces; it is right that it is so: the great strategy of a country is made by foreign policy and defence policy. I talk to you and show you the muscles; I am strong and willing to dialogue: this should be the reality, but very often we may not talk in the correct way; let's at least try to build a muscular body. I have faith in our Minister on this. It's been 20 years, and everyone remembered 9/11. I remember March 2001: do you remember Bamiyan Buddhas? Two large statues, UNESCO heritage, that the Taliban wanted to destroy with the anti-aircraft artillery and dynamite; it took weeks, but they managed to pulverize them. India and Japan, separately, offered money to take and rescue these statues in their own countries with strong Buddhist presence, but there was nothing to do. This is Afghanistan that we and our Armed Forces found in October 2001: a country in which women were not allowed to live as human beings; many rightly emphasized that they could not learn to read and write and could not express themselves as individuals and as human beings. Music was forbidden. Defining Afghanistan at the level of the Middle Ages is offensive to the Europe of the Middle Ages, which was not so, although having some human rights problem, according to contemporary living. Twenty years have passed and there have been improvements that you yourself, Minister, have mentioned and indeed the commitment of our armed forces to civilians and to Afghan society has no equal and there is no doubt. I do not dwell on this, because I do not have the time, but I have read the list on the Ministry of Defence's website and I invite you to do so too: fire-fighting equipment for Herat Airport, support for agriculture, medicines, food and so on. We have supplied both the fishing rod and the fish, according to an old adage, in the sense that we have tried to support the immediate needs and provide the structures and means for those needs to be satisfied autonomously by the people. [[Applause]] Twenty years have passed and Afghanistan, as all colleagues have rightly observed, remains an extremely dangerous country. Ethnic divisions are the main problem. Yes, of course, there are the Taliban pashtun, a democratic government also pashtun, but let's not forget to the north the ethnic tagikes, which have as reference Tajikistan, a country aligned with Russia, those Uzbek ones, which have as reference Uzbekistan, and the Hazaras, which everyone forgets, the only Shiite ethnicity of Afghanistan, against which all other Afghan ethnic groups feel hatred, nothing but hate. Afghanistan is difficult to pacify: what has been done so far, in these twenty years, is definitely an improvement. Nobody had the solution in their pockets. Moreover, I would like to remind you that when NATO, in particular the North Atlantic Council, in 2001 approved the intervention under Article 5, thus authorising the mission, it did not give strategic directives, limiting itself to one: let's arm ourselves, let's leave and each country decides the line to keep. It wasn't the ideal premise to win a war because if I fight, I do it for a goal, but if I don't have the goal... [[Applause]] But twenty years have passed, I say this for the third time, and not only the situation in Afghanistan has changed, but the world has changed. What has changed in the world? First of all, the general geopolitical perspective. Today we are talking about the withdrawal from Afghanistan, but it is not that a military mission such as that in Afghanistan by an alliance like NATO is decided from a purely local perspective. You know well what is happening in the South China Sea, with the American decision to send a fleet permanently, in order to contain China, which claims the entire South China Sea as territorial waters, in contempt of the international conventions of the 20th and 21st centuries, and in contempt of the banal principle of sovereignty of countries such as Vietnam and the Philippines, which are absolutely sovereign. All this, together with a little detail - the fact that since 2005 the Pentagon, every year sends to Parliament, both to the House of Representatives and to the Senate, a report on the Chinese Armed Forces - makes us understand that logic has changed. The Taliban have weakened and may be able to assert themselves in a large part of Afghanistan, but they will certainly no longer be able to become the power they were before, capable of sending terrorists around the world. We are no longer in a position to be concerned about Afghanistan's balance, but we are in a position to do restraint over a revisionist power, that is, that it does not accept the existing world order, and that it can be revisionist by any means. [[Applause]] Surely you are now wondering what the Taliban have to do with China in Afghanistan. Very well, look at the map and look for Wakhan Natural Park: it is a mountainous area of Afghanistan, without roads, 76 kilometers from the Chinese region of Xinjiang, which is the rice region of China, where there are Uyghurs: there are reports of Chinese public security authorities talking about Taliban activities that are training Uyghurs to defend themselves against Chinese oppression. Our Minister mentioned the official decision to withdraw from NATO last April. On 21 April, however, a car bomb with a kamikaze exploded at the Serena Hotel in Quetta, central Pakistan. The target of the Pakistani Taliban who claimed this attack was the Chinese ambassador. But what was the Chinese ambassador doing in Quetta? You must know that China has the plan to build a highway that, starting from its own borders and crossing all of Pakistan, arrives in Gwadar, Pakistani port city at the borders with Iran, on the Indian Ocean. The Chinese have installed and are owners of this port that is hybrid because, born as a civilian, it has been converted to the military. The Taliban, after the Doha agreement rightly and acutely quoted by Senator De Petris, become a ring of containment against China. The mission to Afghanistan is too expensive for most Western countries (not so much because we cannot, but perhaps because our public opinions do not want to) if it is at the same time as the actions that will have to be taken in the Far East to protect Taiwan, South Korea, Japan and Vietnam. Since Vietnam has been mentioned, I remember that since April 2020 this country has had a military agreement with the United States. Think how the world has changed. Minister, thank you for your information, but I recommend to all of us that we maintain our awareness of the global framework in which we move and that the danger of Islamic extremism has not ceased. At times, however, history leaves us with greater dangers and we must therefore make a change of priorities and identify the worst enemy to fight, giving the enemy - I cannot say better, but less dangerous - a different priority. In conclusion, I renew my thanks to the Minister. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u23	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u24	Mr President, Minister, thank you first of all for your report. The 5 Star Movement welcomes with great joy the decision to finally withdraw our troops from Afghanistan, because this was the first political request that our movement made when it entered Parliament in 2013, with its first motion. This is a request which we have repeated over the years and which has already led to a significant reduction in our military contingent. This historic decision agreed with our allies puts an end to one of the longest and most absurd wars in recent history: a punitive war, decided after the attacks of 11 September 2001 against the wrong country (the responsibilities had to be identified in other countries, such as Pakistan and Saudi Arabia) and against a regime - the Islamic Emirate of the Taliban - that in fact resisted twenty years of occupation and that, after the withdrawal, is preparing to return to power. Mr Minister, let us also be clear about this out of respect for too many victims: it has been twenty years of useless war of occupation. [[Applause]] It was a longer war than that of Vietnam and it has devastated a country already destroyed, creating millions of new refugees and supporting a regime of war criminals, fundamentalists and drug traffickers who have flooded the planet and Afghanistan itself with heroin, with disastrous social and health consequences, which add to extreme poverty and a quality of life that has improved only for a very small urban minority (the one that has been enriched thanks to the induced military and humanitarian occupation). It is not the export of democracy, which is imposed not by the force of bombs, but by the power of thought and culture. It was a bloody war, cost an enormous number of deaths on the Afghan side: at least 50,000 civilians, according to the most conservative estimates, 65,000 members of the local security forces and at least as many Taliban resistance fighters. Many, too many, have died even from the western side: over 3,500 NATO soldiers and at least 4,000 contractors. Our country has also paid a very high price in terms of lives: 53 fallen soldiers and over 700 injured and mutilated, to which our heartfelt and sincere memory goes. [[Applause]] Today perhaps there have been too many crocodile tears; the reality is that the military has suffered and paid for the choices of politics, for which we must assume responsibility. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you for your personal commitment that the Defense should shed light on the case of the chosen Corporal Major David Tobini, who died in Rome at 28 years during a battle against the Taliban in a trench on the front of Bala Murghab on July 25, 2011, probably a victim of friendly fire. It has recently emerged that the young man had written a letter to his mother a few days earlier, who after his death was taken into custody by the military authorities and never handed over to David's mother. Why this? Minister, the State has honored the sacrifice of soldier Tobini by giving him post-mortem medals of value and memory; let's honor him by doing justice. De Andrè, in his ballad of the hero, the splendid song against war, rightly pronounced: Too far away he moved himself to seek the truth. Now that the country is dead, the glory of another hero is in memory. But she who loved him waited for the return of a living soldier. Of a dead hero what will he do with it, if the glory of a medal of memory has remained beside her in the bed? [[Applause]] If the human costs of this war were very heavy, so were the financial costs: over 2,000 billion dollars were spent only by the United States, plus all those spent by the Allies; from 25 billion euros in the United Kingdom to more than 8.5 billion euros paid by the Italian taxpayers. If a fraction of these capitals had been spent, not to destroy Afghanistan with bombs, but to rebuild and help it, today that country would be Central Asia's Switzerland. In order not to throw this sacrifice of lives and resources to the wind and to prevent Afghanistan from sinking into a new civil war, after the withdrawal we must not abandon the Afghan people at all. Italy remains at the forefront to work on national reconciliation with the Taliban, on the reconstruction of the country and on enhanced civil development cooperation and on the protection of human rights. Today we do what we should have done twenty years ago: we invest resources no longer for war, but for peace. In this regard, we consider the opportunity to continue the great Italian financial support to the Afghan army (about 120 million euros per year), which would only prolong a bloody civil war, a war by proxy with the already marked outcome. Since the start of the withdrawal of NATO troops, Taliban forces, which had regained control of much of Afghanistan in the past years, are regaining districts at an exponential pace and preparing to enter Kabul. It is such a concrete hypothesis that the Pentagon is already assuming a new intervention to avert it. Minister, we cannot repeat the same mistakes again. Indians, Greeks, Arabs, Mongolians, British, Soviets and Americans: no one has ever managed to conquer that country, which has not by chance earned the fame of "cemetery of empires." No more wars. [[Applause]] Rather, we work to promote national reconciliation, the disarmament of rebels and their reintegration, the inclusion of pashtun, who are the ethnic majority of the country, in the government of a new federal Afghanistan. This must be the new Italian and Western mission to Afghanistan, a true mission of peace that the Movimento 5 Stars will support with full conviction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u25	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of Defence, whom I thank for his willingness. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 11.54 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u26	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for the Interior will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Faraone has the right to explain the question 3-02650 on delays in public administration payments to suppliers of goods and services, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u27	Minister, I believe that the Ministry that runs is well aware of the subject matter of the question time, namely the issue of public administration payments to suppliers of goods and services. Although this year the situation has been objectively improved, according to the data provided by its Ministry, I think there are still strong criticalities, since in 2020 there were 5,687 public bodies that paid their suppliers late, in 2,138 cases the public administration exceeded by one month the limits set by law and in 229 cases it exceeded by one hundred days the deadlines and the comparison is made compared to thirty days, sixty for health, provided for by European legislation. To be late in payments is still 31.7% of the public administrations recorded. This explains the increase in public commercial debts, from €48.9 billion in 2019 to €51.9 billion last year. The Ministry of the Interior in 2020 saw the expiry of over 390,000 invoices, for a total value of 2.43 billion euros and paid 81.7 percent with an average delay of eighteen days. The Ministry of Justice cleared 75.4 percent of invoices, with an average wait of 17 days compared to legal deadlines. Although Italy has transposed European legislation, it is clear that there are still difficulties in its full application and last year Italy was condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union for these reasons, thus risking sanctions, if it fails to limit these delays, capable of harming the right of businesses to payment in certain times. The Extraordinary Commissioner for Emergency from Covid-19, who made purchases for EUR 2.03 billion, only paid for a figure of approximately EUR 1.15 billion, 56.6 percent, with non-performing waiting times, equal on average to fifteen days late. I note that meeting deadlines is a crucial factor for the proper functioning of the national economy and is in compliance with the European directives on payment of commercial debts, on which the European Commission carries out precise and rigorous control, I ask you, Minister, to know what urgent initiatives the Ministry intends to take, in order to compensate for delays in payments by the public administration, all the more so today, in which we must also organise the National Recovery and Resilience Plan.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u28	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Franco, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u29	Mr President, the issue of delays in public administration payment times has been a cause for concern for years, primarily because of the problems of liquidity and competitive disadvantage of Italian companies. The aim was and is to ensure full compliance with the European directive. As the interrogators have pointed out, for years there has been constant progress in average payment times. The improvement was widespread, but some critical issues persist, with some state administrations and some local authorities lagging significantly above the national average. A number of activities have been launched over the last two years to improve the management of commercial payments by the administrative structures of the Ministries and local authorities and to address areas of delay. Meetings have been convened between the MEF and representatives of the Dicasteries with greater criticality; this action has allowed to reduce their weighted average delay to ten days in 2020, six less than in 2019. In agreement with the ANCI, webinars dedicated to local authorities and bilateral meetings with some of the major municipalities were organized last year. The weighted average delay during 2020 fell to about fourteen days, three less than in 2019. These activities were intensified in 2021. More recently, Decree Support bis increased the fund by one billion to ensure the liquidity of local authorities for payments of commercial debts accrued at the end of 2020. Since this year, measures have come into force to encourage compliance with payment deadlines by non-state public administrations, which provide for corrective action in the event of defaults proportional to the extent of the delay. With regard to emergency management, Decree-Law No 73 of this year authorised the expenditure of one billion 650 million for the payment of previous invoices, to be transferred to the Commissioner after presentation by the Commissioner of an administrative report subsequent to the transfer of deliveries with the previous commissioner's management. Since the beginning of the year 8,640 invoices have been received by the new emergency commissioner for a total amount of 1.4 billion, against which 921 million (two thirds) have been paid to date, with an average delay of about one day. The Government is committed to continuing the improvement of payment times, with increasingly targeted and selective interventions for the identification and resolution of the specific problems encountered. We will also continue to ensure maximum transparency on the dedicated pages of the MEF website and to enhance monitoring and technical support to the administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u30	Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply, because I believe there is an awareness of the need for this intervention by the Government. Delays in public administration payments have a very strong impact on business life, employment and the real economy. Being able to be efficient, as well as being a business card for a country that is efficient in Europe and that does not lend itself to paying penalties due to the lack of respect for payment times, also builds the conditions for the economy of this country to be stronger. We owe it even more to a country torn apart by a pandemic that has put so many companies and workers in difficulty. Honestly, the fact that the state must fail on issues that concern the viability of businesses and the safety of thousands of jobs is a strong limit that we cannot afford, even more so if we have to equip our structure and organize the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which provides for very strong investments; there too, payments to private companies will have to take place in accordance with the times that Europe prescribes, but above all that we owe to our entrepreneurs and our workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u31	Senator D'Alfonso has the right to explain the question 3-02645 on the development of special economic zones, particularly in the Mezzogiorno, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u32	Minister, Decree-Law No 91 of 2017 defined the procedures and conditions for requesting the establishment of special economic zones in certain areas of the country, in particular in the regions defined as less developed and in transition. It is basically Sicily, Calabria, Basilicata, Puglia and Campania; then there are the three Regions in transition. Compared to these regions, we now have eight special economic zones which have been established. We have also determined, with appropriate regulatory activities, the identification of extraordinary Commissioners, who become unique partners in the activities of businesses and local authorities. A doubling of the financial cover for the first activation was also determined. There is now a need to conceive of the real activation of these extraordinary differentiated areas with regard to the activity of the public administration in relation to the projects of life of the enterprises. We know that there are 3,000 special economic zones in the world. Only since 2017 Italy has begun to deal with it. Mr Minister, now the question I ask you is: can we make sure that we start a project with special dedication to the Mezzogiorno of Italy to ensure that tax credit and tax relief benefits are increased in relation to those business life projects which are capable of increasing employment? Businesses call for simplifications, contained in the ZES rules; they call for pacts to ensure that the objective of the company's life is also the objective of institutional life. What is the programme that you think you are contemplating from the next public finance instruments? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Franco, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u33	Mr President, with reference to the request of the interrogating senators, it is important to point out, as also mentioned in the text of the question, that the economic activities carried out in the ZES enjoy the increased tax credit and introduced in 2017 in relation to investments in capital goods and that this facility was further strengthened by the Decree-Law simplifications of a few weeks ago through the increase of the maximum limit of eligible costs per project and by the extension of the objective scope to the purchase of buildings instrumental to the investments. The institutional constraints of a European nature must be taken into account when assessing further strengthening the investment tax credit. It is necessary to ensure compliance with the specific limits and conditions laid down in the European framework on State aid and, in particular, in the general exemption regulation on notification. It is also not possible to introduce VAT and excise facilities for compliance with European legislation. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that, under the budget law for 2021, the reduction to 50% of income tax has been recognised in a de minimis scheme and it is unlikely that further facilitations will be allowed under this scheme. In order to better support the economic development of the EEZs, it is essential to ensure the rapid and full implementation of all those administrative actions aimed at creating environmental conditions to stimulate business activity, enhancing administrative capacity and reducing bureaucratic burdens. In addition, infrastructure provision is crucial. Following this approach, the Government has decided to allocate a share of the resources of the PNRR to the development of the infrastructures on ports and retroporti placed within the same ones. Moreover, significant resources of the Complementary Plan are destined to the ports of the South, in favor of the development of the intermodalità and the connections of the last mile and, more in general, the ability and the resilience of the harbour systems. These initiatives will be fundamental for the creation and the development of the conditions of context in order to allow the enterprises to stabilize inside the ZES and to allow the recovery of the competitiveness also towards the competing ports of North Africa and the eastern Mediterranean. The process of infrastructural upgrading will also be facilitated by the procedural simplifications introduced by the recent Decree-Law No 77 of 2021, which also affect governance, for example regarding concessions of administrative authorisations. In conclusion, the tax incentives already planned and recently strengthened, combined with the resources for infrastructure of the ZES and the ports and simplifications, could allow to face some fundamental critical nodes of the development for the ZES. This will of course require careful monitoring, in order to verify the effectiveness of the measures introduced on the economy of the Mezzogiorno areas and to develop possible corrective measures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator D'Alfonso may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u34	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased with the feedback you have given us, especially because I know the dedication that is putting the structure of your Ministry in supporting the work of another dedicated Ministry and, in particular, that of cohesion. I want to highlight that there is an economically differentiated zone that works perfectly in Italy, characterized by the extraordinaryness of a Region. Friuli-Venezia Giulia has an economically differentiated area, administered by a prominent figure of our public administration, which is Zeno D'Agostino. We must assume the successful experiences as reference experiences with regard to what needs to be put on the road; coordination, monitoring, ensuring that there is convergence between all the competences of the competent actors concerning development: to prevent Anas looking on one side and Ferrovie on the other, the system of local authorities on the other side, with the State holding that may be called out. Coordination, monitoring and clarification of policy objectives are necessary. The differentiated economic zone was created to ensure that development comes out of nominality and becomes reality.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u35	Senator Tosato has the right to explain the question 3-02646 on the provision of the contribution for holders of VAT numbers provided for in Decree Supports bis, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u36	Mr President, Minister, the Decree-Law on Support bis, approved by the Government on 25 May this year, has allocated substantial resources to support businesses, work and our health system. In particular, it proposed the measure of the non-refundable contribution to VAT consignments, which more than other categories have been affected by the closure measures made necessary by the spread of the epidemic and for health reasons. In this rule, the possibility of being credited to the same bank account where the previous contribution has been credited has been a new compensation, without the need to submit a further application by the holders of a VAT number that had the requisites. In recent weeks the Government has communicated to the Chamber of Deputies that the contributions would be credited on 16 June and, subsequently, on 22 June, it has proposed this announcement and this commitment in a press release. We are talking about about 5 billion, essential for many activities that have suffered very great economic damage, they need to restart, to engage in the recovery that is expected thanks to the reopening season. Those who have suffered the season of forced closures must be helped immediately. The League has appreciated the action of the Government and the approach of the so-called decree support bis, but the transfers in favour of these holders of VAT consignments seem not to arrive in a suitable time. The aid must not only be allocated but must also be granted quickly. We therefore ask the government for the causes of these delays, but especially if they have finally been overcome and if the funds will actually be paid out quickly. We also ask what are the Government's intentions to speed up the enactment of the implementing decrees planned to address the economic and health emergency that has hit our country. We are aware that of the 801 planned, 471 are still waiting to be approved. It is not enough to finally allocate resources, it is not enough to adopt good rules, it is essential to act quickly. We ask the Government for an answer to our question; we ask it because those who have suffered the economic crisis more than others have the right to clear and concrete answers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u37	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Franco, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u38	Mr President, with reference to the first question, I would like to point out that after only eight days after the publication of the first decree, the Revenue Agency has opened the electronic channel for the acquisition of the requests to be submitted for the grant of the non-refundable contribution to the benefit of economic operators affected by the Covid emergency. In favour of this same audience of beneficiaries, the Decree of Aids bis provided for the automatic provision, without the need for a further application, of a contribution equal to the previous one. With reference to the latter contribution, it is clear that, although the rule does not provide for a time limit for payment, taking into account the technical and operational elements of the experience of the last few months, on 7 June, at the hearing on the Decree Support bis, I myself indicated on 16 June the date on which the payments were supposedly due. From the subsequent intercourse of the offices of the Ministry of Economy and Finance with those of the Commission it has emerged the necessity from these last ones of deepening on the instruments of monitoring prepared from the member countries for the respect of the conditions and limits previewed from the temporary framework for the measures of State aid in support of the economy in the current emergency from Covid-19, the so-called temporary framework. As soon as these checks were completed, the Ministry of Economy and the Revenue Agency immediately activated the payment procedures which had technically already been prepared, informing them through the publication of a press release on 22 June. 1,770,000 transfers have already been arranged, with a value of more than 5 billion, to which are added another 38,000 subjects that are recognized, always automatically, a tax credit for a total of 166 million. With regard to the issue of the implementation of the emergency measures, we are aware that the effectiveness of the government action depends, as well as the production of good rules, also on the ability to ensure the timely and full operation of the same. At the initiative of the Presidency of the Council, the state administrations have set up a monitoring and implementation network which is intensifying their efforts to approve the implementing decrees and at the same time is investigating the regulatory provisions dating back to time, of which the planned implementing measure has not yet been enacted. The MEF is invested in a number of very important measures, considering that the Ministry, as well as being proposing for the measures of its own competence, is also concerted or is called to express opinions on most of the measures of competence of the other administrations. We are therefore trying to speed up the pace at which the administration is working to recover the regulatory stock. We are working on a number of lines of action, strengthening monitoring systems, strengthening the structures for implementing measures by introducing new organisational solutions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Tosato may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which we are satisfied with, because it has been said that the difficulties have been overcome, so we really hope that from the announcements we will move on to the facts, to the contribution to those who have been penalized more than others by this crisis. However, we will continue to monitor and urge the Commission to ensure that the approved rules are met quickly and effectively: this is our task. The health crisis has certainly affected everyone, every category, every area of our country and every social area. It has been terrible and we hope that, thanks to the vaccination campaign, it will soon end definitively. The economic crisis, however, has not all struck in the same way: it is undeniable that the self-employed and holders of VAT have been affected more than others. Some categories of employees have received their wages correctly and fortunately every month; others have not been able to work, their activities have been closed, they have not earned, but they have had to continue to pay what is due to tax and their creditors. These categories should therefore be helped immediately and constantly. The League has accepted their legitimate demands and requests for support and expects them to be properly compensated, in fact representing the heart of our economy. They are small activities that give work, pay large contributions to the tax and have contributed in a fundamental way to the economic growth of our country. They must be supported, they must be helped to survive and recover without further delay. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u40	Senator Balboni has the right to explain the question 3-02648 on the strengthening of the defence equipment of the personnel of the Forces of the Order, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, last Saturday in Rome, at the Termini station, a foreigner in clear state of agitation first terrified the passers-by, armed with a knife of considerable size, and then, on the arrival of the police, refused to lay down the weapon and indeed turned aggressively and threateningly against the agents themselves. At that point an agent, as is known, had to respond to the attack by shooting a gunshot at the aggressor's limbs by wounding him to a leg and thus neutralizing him. This episode, which is certainly not the first of which unfortunately the chronicles are concerned, obviously poses two orders of serious problems. The first, Madam Minister, is the security of our cities, which unfortunately are now in the grip of people against whom to defend themselves is very difficult for honest and decent citizens. In addition to the issue of security in our cities, there is one even more serious issue that concerns the endowments of law enforcement and police forces. In particular, there has been a debate about the need to equip Taser and other forms of personal defense as soon as possible (e.g. video cameras to be placed on the uniforms of agents, the so-called body cams), so that those who intervene can do so in complete safety for themselves and also for third parties. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to know what steps are being taken to speed up as much as possible the races, which we know to be in progress, for the Taser budget. I would also ask you to know what steps you intend to take to ensure that the registration of the agent in the register of suspects, defined as a "due act," cannot, however, result in further demotivation of police officers and law enforcement forces, which too often risk going on the side of the wrong after sacrificing themselves to defend the security of citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the questioners, with reference to the recent case in Rome of a Ghanaian citizen who was responsible for an episode of violence which required the use of a firearms gun by a State Police operator who had intervened to neutralize him, ask for information, among other things, on the state of the procedures of the competitions relating to the acquisition of the common weapon with electrical impulses with which to equip the police forces. It should be pointed out in advance that the complex process of acquiring this type of weapon, commonly called Taser, was preceded by an experimental phase arranged for obvious precautionary reasons. On 16 June 2020, by my measure and in the light of the definition of the procedure for adopting the decree amending the decree of the President of the Republic n. 359 of 1991, which will allow to regime the use of the common weapon with electrical impulses, the staff of the State Police performing police functions was authorized to employ for the institutional tasks the aforementioned weapon on condition that it does not exceed the offensive potential of the police forces. However, further details on safety standards were needed at the tendering stage and this requirement has led to a slowdown in the same procedures, which are now in the process of being completed. Next June 29 will come to cease the effects of the clause stand still, delay between the award and the conclusion of the contract previewed from the current norm regarding public contracts. Consequently, it will become possible to award the awarded economic operator. Subsequently, one hundred and twenty days must be allowed for the successful tenderer to test the weapon and its accessories. At the favourable outcome of the test, the supply, equal to 4,482 weapons with electrical impulses and related accessories, will be distributed on the national territory. I would like to point out that, after the trial phase, the regulatory measure has also been prepared which will allow the introduction of the type of weapon in question into the regime of the police force. Once the weapon is distributed, it will be possible to supply the video shooting system, videocams, body cams to the trained personnel, as the two instruments are connected to each other. With regard to the need to ensure that police officers engaged in public order services at street demonstrations can operate with the necessary serenity, I would add that it is being considered to equip them with appropriate technological tools. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Balboni has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u43	Madam Minister, I am unfortunately only partially satisfied with your reply, because the technical information you have given us today, many of which were actually already in the public domain, only solves part of the problem. The truth is that, once again, bureaucratic delays are then paid by those on the front line to deal with such situations. Personally, therefore, I thank you for the clarifications that make us hope for the future, but now the accumulated delay is what it is, we certainly can no longer recover it. Madam Minister, there is one issue on which you have kept a strict silence and it is precisely how we can prevent the registration in the register of suspects of agents who do their duty from turning into further demotivation of those who face facts such as these who might then feel authorized, at some point, to turn to the other side to avoid running the risk of going from the side of reason to the side of wrong. The paradox is that in this case we have an agent who has done his duty as a servant of the State and finds himself defending himself and also having to anticipate the legal costs for his defence; on the other hand we have the attacker, who suddenly becomes even an offended party and will have the legal expenses paid by the State twice, one as a defendant and one as a civil party in the eventual trial against the agent who has done his duty. I believe that these are paradoxes that we must finally remedy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u44	Senator De Falco has the power to explain the question 3-02644 on the management of the hotspot for migrants of Lampedusa, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u45	Madam Minister, on 18 and 19 June 2021, a few days ago, my collaborator, Mr Alessandra Ballerini, visited the Lampedusa hotspot, where, among other things - I say this in the preamble - there were very heavy and undue interferences in the fulfilment of the parliamentary mandate; this despite the clarity of the primary regulatory framework of reference. Obviously, such interference was immediately reported to the prosecutor of the competent Republic. The visit highlighted conditions of complete inviability in the hotspot, where they are often forced to live even 2,000 people, compared to a capacity of 228 places. These people - he reiterates - are held in the hotspot without any fault. Hundreds of people with 40 toilets; men, women and children lie outdoors, even at night, although there the climate is not mild at night at all. In these days, in addition to inhuman conditions, there has emerged a complete abdication, Madam Minister, of the State which manifests itself in innumerable uncertainties, approximations and discrasies. First, there is a complete discrasia of opinion about the regime to which people are subjected who are concentrated in the hotspot. In particular, it is not clear whether those people can freely leave the place of concentration where they are closed, or not. In fact, the army soldiers who are in the guard corps, in charge of the surveillance of the entrances, report that you can't get out. The people present in the hotspot therefore have no freedom of movement. On the contrary, some elements of the police have argued that guests can get away; others argue otherwise. In short, we go to a real dematerialization and confusion that turn towards an anarchy with police traction. There is no regulation that can serve as a reference and criterion to these things. Furthermore, there is no predetermined criterion for the distribution of persons on board the very expensive, uneconomic, ineffective and unnecessary quarantine vessels, or the destination to other places of detention or concentration. There's no criterion, there's nothing. I do not have time to read all four points of the question. But I would ask you, Madam Minister, to answer your questions as well as those which I cannot explain for lack of time. [[Call the president back.]] I would like to know the regime to which the guests of the hotspot are subject. They're bound to be in there, aren't they? [[Recalls of the President]] This is the first question and it is fundamental because at all levels... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u46	Senator De Falco, you know that in the course of the question time you must strictly respect the times. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it must first be made clear that the so-called hotspots are centres of very first reception which, as their English name evokes, have been prepared as hotspots to deal with the situations of maximum influx of migrants. These are structures provided for by Eurounitarian law for some years now. Hotspots, however, do not in any way represent prison facilities, i.e. structures in which migrants are deprived of their personal freedom. Repatriation residence centres (CPRs) correspond to this function. However, in hotspots, police operations are carried out (identification, photosigning and fingerprinting for their inclusion in the Eurodac database), as required by the EU Regulation, to protect the external borders, and health rescue and screening that require the detention of the migrant for a very limited period of time, necessary for the performance of those functions. As you know, the Lampedusa hotspot is periodically overcrowded, but it is effectively dealt with by a rapid decongestion of surplus situations, as Senator De Falco himself has observed. In fact, Senator De Falco made access to the Lampedusa hotspot the day after his request, as the day before there had been a situation of particular overcrowding (in a few hours dealt with and resolved), which made the requested access contraindicated, even for health reasons. It does not therefore correspond to reality that the subsequent treatment of the migrant meets random criteria, as the interrogators claim. It is true, on the other hand, that every migrant, once he has carried out the preliminary operations of police and health screening, today also in operation Covid, receives an adequate treatment to his conditions and his status, also and especially with regard to the positions of vulnerability that concern the families and unaccompanied minors. Moreover, the attention to human rights and the preservation of the dignity of migrants is witnessed not only by the daily effort of police workers in the structures, but also by the strong involvement of humanitarian organisations. They operate on the basis of conventions with the Ministry of the Interior to protect and support the migrant and respond to the names of UNHCR, OIM, Save the children and Doctors without frontiers. Similar conditions for the protection of migrants are also guaranteed on board ships by the Red Cross precisely to ensure the health care and the provision of the necessary care for migrants hosted there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Falco to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u48	Mr President, I cannot but feel totally dissatisfied with the Minister's reply. Meanwhile, it is not true the circumstance that I would have been admitted to enter, also because it has been allowed to work to my collaborator, under threat, as I wrote, of denunciation pursuant to article 650 of the penal code, that is, with a very heavy interference. I was admitted the next day. I was in Lampedusa on 18 and 19 June, having already forewarned the prefect (and this is not at all due), and I was not allowed to carry out my quiet inspection. Moreover, there is no document in that office, there is no regulation, there is nothing that anchors to the rule of law the behaviors and decisions of those who decide on the freedom of the people who are held there. Those people are held there, Madam Minister: there is no freedom to go out and enter, none. It's true that I was prevented from entering, so let's not say incorrect things. That is not true of you, Madam Minister, and of the administration, unfortunately. I just want to know what it intends to do, in general, to ensure humanity in that place: 950 people, reduced to 450 (not to three, Madam Minister), were half brought to the ship Atlas and half stayed there, living in the closet, among the mice. Is this the civilization that we want to export, of which we boast, Madam Minister? You have not responded to this and I have nothing else to add.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u49	Senator Modena has the right to explain the question 3-02649 on the situation of irregular immigration, from the point of view of law and order, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u50	Minister, the fundamental point on which this question is based is the figure of 76 per cent of those who have been denied asylum (and we are talking about immigrants of course), but have not been repatriated and therefore feed on illegality. This first of all leads to a number of issues which relate specifically to immigration. The question we are asking you is, first of all, whether agreements have not been promoted to limit departures from the African coasts and to intervene from a regulatory point of view, for what is our competence, to prevent non-governmental organisations from acting in such a way as to facilitate the activity of traffickers of people, also blocking landings. Secondly, the figure of 76 percent of individuals who have not been repatriated (at least to us) concerns public security. Very often, in fact, these people devote themselves to criminal activities, even just to survive, and they go to increase mainly the sale, therefore the overall deterioration of our cities. That's why we wanted to see if there were any regulatory assumptions in place to restore order and security. Of course, our model, Minister for the Interior, is the one that followed President Berlusconi in his time, who promoted a series of agreements, particularly with Libya (then perhaps little was understood; I believe and think that today it is understood much more), so as to avoid the landings of vessels leaving from the North African coasts. Of course, we are asking these questions by stating what has already been said here yesterday by the President-in-Office of the Council on this matter, but we cannot fail to report not only a social alarm, but also a very clear problem of security and tranquillity, both with regard to the forces of order, as some colleagues have reminded you before, and especially with regard to the citizens. Thank you and I look forward to your reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u51	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the issues raised, first of all they stress the need to address the issue of migration through the conclusion of partnership agreements with the countries of origin and transit of flows. It is known that the line I have always followed, in every international forum, multilaterally and bilaterally, is to urge the European Union to urgently move forward with strategic partnership agreements with the countries from which the migratory pressure originates, starting from Libya and Tunisia. Moreover, this effort has been fully reflected in the motions for resolutions adopted yesterday by Parliament, precisely with a view to the European Council, scheduled today and tomorrow in Brussels, on which President Draghi referred. These motions for resolutions prefigure the overcoming of the now obsolete legal framework in Dublin, in order to place the issue of migration and the related intra-European solidarity at the heart of Europe's agenda. Another priority is the strengthening of EU cooperation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), on the humanitarian corridors and on assisted voluntary returns, as useful tools to reduce irregular flows and combat human trafficking in the Mediterranean. Turning now to the other issues of the question and in particular to the prevention and combating of drug offences, I would like to point out that Article 11 of Decree-Law No 130 of 21 October 2020 states that measures have been implemented to combat drug trafficking within and close to public premises or open to the public or public establishments. To protect young people in particular, the prohibition of access to public and local establishments of detention of persons who have reported complaints or convictions for the sale or supply of drugs has been introduced. To complete this measure it has also been foreseen that those who have precedents for the same types of crime cannot even station in the aforementioned premises, precisely because of the urban Daspus. With regard to compulsory arrest in the event of dealing with further investigations that may be carried out with the competent Ministry of Justice, I would add that I recently fired, in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, a ministerial decree that allocates additional resources to the municipalities, amounting to 15 million euro, for the three years 2020-2022, precisely to strengthen the initiatives of prevention and contrast to the spread of drugs.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u53	Senator Modena has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u54	Minister, we are pleased with the answer you have given us. Of course, attention must always be paid to these issues, because they are intimately connected with social cohesion, in the sense that having no eye on security, also linked to immigration, means giving the perception of not being as attentive to the equality of social cohesion. Of course, we are also pleased, because we have read in his words and in what was said yesterday, that the attention of the European Council, at the stimulus of the President of the Council, is focused on migration routes, as an integral part of the European Union's policy. This can allow us, clearly, to go to block the departure of these boats of death. In this regard, it is especially important that this issue has been put on the agenda, which has not been on the agenda of the European Council since June 2018.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u55	Senator D'Angelo has the right to explain the question 3-02647 on the staff of the municipal police force in Messina, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u56	Minister, the question that I put to your attention concerns the critical situation in which the local police of the city of Messina and, in connection with this, the uncertainty in which 46 municipal police officers are located, hired with a fixed-term contract, by virtue of the financial resources that have been allocated to the Municipality of Messina with the National Fund for Urban Security, pursuant to Article 35-c of the so-called security decree. I would point out that the condition of the local police of Messinese has become unsustainable as a result of a substantial reduction in staff that has followed over the years and has therefore led to a serious shortage of staff. A deficiency that has been made even more evident by the greater importance that have assumed the new tasks of garrison and prevention on the territory that municipal police agents are called throughout Italy to face in the case of the emergency Covid, as support to the population and as control of the territory. In other words, there has in fact been an expansion of the competences of the Italian Municipal Police, which makes it necessary today to reconsider the resources allocated to the Municipalities for the staff, the instrumentation and also for proper training; In view of the complex social circumstances associated with the pandemic and the heavy task of enforcing the containment provisions relating to the Covid standards, there are clearly insufficient staff, instruments and training of municipal polices, in response to a request for an increase in activities and the commitment of the municipal police. With regard to the specific organic endowment of the Messina Municipal Police Corps, in particular, it is necessary to guarantee the conditions in order to be able to carry out its role effectively, in order to provide an optimal service to the community. On the other hand, the feedback that has been received for the urban security initiatives financed by the national fund, which in the next three years will allocate 65 million euros in support of the municipalities that intend to strengthen the fixed-term staff of local police and the safety of the most problematic areas of our cities. What I am asking you is precisely if the Municipality of Messina is in short danger of being deprived of these resources and if it is therefore possible to extend the contract of these subjects for a further year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u57	The City of Messina has joined the project "Potentialization of urban security initiatives by the Municipalities" with resources from the Urban Security Fund 2018-2020, presenting, in March 2019, a project for the strengthening of the Municipal Police Corps, which included, among other things, the recruitment of 28 local police officers for the year 2019 and 18 agents for the year 2020. The project was approved by the Order and Public Security Committee of the Prefecture of Messina and subsequently financed by decree of the Ministry of the Interior of 27 June 2019. On 13 August 2020, 44 individual full-time and fixed-term contracts were formalised, with a deadline of 13 August 2021. Since two winners had given up their position, the ranking was adjusted and two additional employment contracts were signed with a deadline of 1 November 2021. The recruitment of such personnel has allowed the strengthening of control and surveillance activities on the territory, with participation in interforce operations and an important employment also in the management of the crisis Covid-19. In relation to the specific request made by the honourable Member, I inform you that the resources of the Urban Security Fund for the next three years 2021-2023 total EUR 15 million for the current year and EUR 25 million for 2022. The decree allocating these appropriations, submitted in advance for consideration by the State-City Conference and local self-government, has already been agreed with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and will soon be finally dismissed. According to the criteria contained in the decree, the Municipality of Messina will be allocated a quota of about 460,000 euros for the current year and 770,000 euros for each of the year 2022-2023. With the contribution of these resources, the Municipality will be able to guarantee the continuity of the employment of local police operators, even if deemed, by implementing the number, as the honourable Member wished.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u58	Senator D'Angelo may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u59	Minister, I am pleased with the attention and positive response you have given to the subject I have put to you. I take this opportunity to reiterate and underline the commitment, professionalism and dedication that the Municipal Police Corps of our country guarantees in security and control of the territory in this difficult time of pandemic, which has put a bit 'all on various fronts to hard test, just because our urban police are not only those who manage traffic, stop and road, but have a whole series of tasks and important delegations. In a broader view, they are the very first and most immediate interface of institutions with citizens. They are those who live in close contact with the community in their daily lives, collecting suggestions, pointing out critical issues, reassuring and experimenting on the ground the measures designed and launched by both local and central administrations. This great attention is a positive signal to this Body that does so much for our community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u60	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u63	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of this House to an issue that is particularly close to my heart and which is also the subject of a question that I have put to the Minister for the Environmental Transition, also signed by many of my colleagues. The issue concerns the management of the waste cycle in Sicily, but its importance obviously goes beyond the territorial boundaries. The theme has always represented not only in Sicily a land of historical interference between private interests and public administration. At this historic moment of environmental, health and economic emergency, waste management takes on more important political and social importance than ever before. We cannot continue to seek solutions in the massive reception of waste in private landfills, nor, as announced by the government of the Sicilian Region, play with the laws and health and inaugurate a new season of the construction of incinerators, dropped from above, in spite of European directives and any decision-making and democratic process. If incineration plants are to be built instead of landfills, the regional government should rewrite the waste plan again, submit it again to Parliament and, only after the whole process has been completed, submit the ban for waste-to-energy. As the then Minister Costa said, when an incinerator or waste-to-energy plant arrives, the waste cycle has failed. Separate collection, reuse and recovery are the issues that we must pursue. It is clear that the construction of new incinerators hinders the prospect of a circular economy, mainly characterised by the reduction of waste production, designed to be properly differentiated, recycled and recovered.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u66	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, if a good song were enough to make love rain, one could sing it a million, a million times it sang Eros Ramazzotti in 1990. If it were enough for an end-of-session intervention to resolve the problems, we could not limit and intervene seamlessly. Having said that, an intervention at the end of the session must follow the work or we are led to believe that everything can be resolved by magic. We must not sell illusions, but the first fundamental thing is to talk about it by addressing issues that have always been covered in the parliamentary classrooms by a veil of omerta. Both lend themselves to easy exploitation and feed a debate more attentive to ideology than to human rights. I am referring to medical cannabis and euthanasia. In the first case, it is good to make it clear that we are not talking about drugs, as someone would like us to believe, but about a fundamental therapeutic substance that can alleviate the physical suffering of hundreds of thousands of patients. It is also a sector with very high potential for our country. As estimated by Istat, the cannabis-related industry accounts for 0.8% of GDP. From 2015 until today, the commercial spread of medical cannabis has not gone hand in hand with a steady increase in demand. I therefore ask the Ministry of Health to activate itself in order to guarantee the right to care also to all those who need this substance through the identification of new sources of supply, preferring the opening of new productive sites in our Country, instead of focusing exclusively on an import that anyway latita. On such an important subject, it is appropriate that an ad hoc delegation be given on the relevant powers without beating the floor. This hope must be made concrete. Hope, strike a shot. Euthanasia, on the other hand, is an argument on which insists a very serious regulatory vacuum that can generate immense pain and suffering. Last week I was deeply impressed by the story of Daniela, a 37-year-old woman, an oncology patient, who wanted to choose how to die, but who did not make it in time to reach a clinic in Switzerland. There are many people who before you have had to endure and continue to endure this torture, an inhuman suffering for both the person and the family, to whom all my closeness goes. Both these themes would represent conquests of civilizations, although some political forces prefer to deconstruct them to mere ideological battles. Given that our state is a secular state, I wonder when we will find in the parliamentary classrooms the strength to clear the field of polemics and ideologies and finally to deal with these fundamental issues that can alleviate or prevent serious suffering. Is a state human that does not act in the face of these immense sufferings? Is it rational to entrench oneself behind ideological and cultural prejudices, even when it comes to disavowing science? We, as Five Star Movement, are ready and we have been ready for some time. Martin Luther King reminded us that the freedom of each of us ends where the freedom of others begins. To impose further unreasonable restrictions on the right to a cure and freedom of self-determination is not a political or ideological choice, but simply to be insensitive to the most intimate needs of citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-341.ana.u68	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 6 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (16.03 p.m.).
