ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u6	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, last night, during a demonstration in Pesaro, it seems that no vax protesters stopped in front of the mayor's house, Matteo Ricci, also frightening the family. I would therefore like to use only a brief moment, without taking time away from the work of this House, to express solidarity with the mayor and to remember that, in the full freedom of demonstrations, when they are authorized, there is all the willingness, rightly, to protect them, but what is not legitimate and cannot be legitimized - and politics should say clear words about this - is that protesters go under the homes of citizens or the city's own administrator, because this becomes dangerous and also harms the freedoms of all. In this case, moreover, it was a no vax manifestation. President Mattarella's words yesterday seem clear and warning to all of us. I would therefore like to express, on behalf of the whole Group of Senators of the Democratic Party, solidarity with the mayor of Pesaro and with all the mayors who face particular situations, hoping to share this moment with all the Members of this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u7	Thank you, Senator Malpezzi, for your report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u10	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to join in the solidarity and express, also from the Italian Group Viva-PSI, closeness and friendship to Mayor Matteo Ricci and to the many administrators who are in the same difficulties. As Mrs Malpezzi said, in fact, the demonstrations, when authorized, are always legitimate; when you get to these levels and you obviously exceed the limit of the normal and authorized manifestation, then it is also right to let the many citizens understand, that at this moment maybe they are angry and worried, the reasons for choices definitely difficult, but courageous and of great responsibility, like those assumed by our Government. Also on behalf of the Italia Viva-PSI Group, I therefore express closeness and solidarity to my friend Matteo Ricci. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2272. The rapporteurs, Senators Valente and Caliendo, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Valente.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u12	Mr President, Decree-Law No 80 of 9 June 2021 provides for a series of urgent measures for the strengthening of the administrative capacity of public administrations, functional to the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and for the efficiency of justice. The measure has been examined by the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and Justice, which have made specific changes to the text, including with the cooperation of the opposition, which we naturally thank. On the part of the political forces there was, first of all, an awareness of the importance of a measure that addresses recruitment as the instrument through which the projects envisaged by the PNRR will be grounded by the public, central and territorial administrations. To do this, it has been clear to everyone from the outset that we need resources, skills and specialized and motivated talents, but that we also need to identify appropriate procedures. This decree does so in a balanced manner, taking into account the interests in the field and the necessary guarantees. For the work done, allow me to thank in particular the Undersecretary Bini, Minister D'Incà, the Government in general and, of course, the Minister for the Civil Service and the Minister for Justice, directly concerned, as well as all their offices. I would also like to thank all my colleagues from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Commission on Justice, as well as all the officials and staff of the Senate. For time limits, I will take into account in particular only a few changes made in the work of the Commissions in Parliament. As regards the strengthening of administrative capacity, Article 1 regulates special arrangements for speeding up procedures for recruitment of fixed-term staff and the assignment of collaborative tasks by public administrations holding projects foreseen in the PNRR. With regard to the lists introduced in Article 1 of the decree, established through the recruitment portal by the Department of the public service to accelerate the competition procedures, an amendment was introduced, which provides for the extension of the registration also to those professionals not organized in orders and colleges in possession of the certificate of quality and professional qualification of the services. In addition, all calls on the recruitment portal will be published in open format and organized in a database searchable in each field. It was then extended to 31 December 2022 the time limit by which administrations may, in order to overcome the precarious situation, employ non-directive staff on an indefinite basis in accordance with the legal deadlines already laid down. Urgent measures related to the implementation of the PNRR concerning the Ministry of Culture have been envisaged, with the recruitment of specialised staff to state archives and archival supervisors. On the subject of Article 3 - which concerns the regulation on the classification of civil servants in functional areas, the progression within the area and access to higher areas - a number of amendments introduced in the Commission concerned, in particular, the progressions in the same area, which must take place in accordance with principles of selectivity and according to the capacities acquired in accordance with the arrangements laid down by collective bargaining. It has also been provided that in the written tests of the public competitions organized by the State, Regions and local authorities to all subjects with DSA is guaranteed the possibility to replace the tests with an oral interview, using compensatory tools for the difficulties of reading, writing and calculation. On the subject of voluntary mobility, so much felt among public administrations, the decree intervenes limiting the cases in which it is subject to the consent of the administration of belonging. A satisfactory solution has been found on this point, in the light of the doubts raised by local authorities, while maintaining the prior consent of the administration of which belongs to the municipalities of up to 100 employees and reducing the percentage corresponding to the shortage of staff that makes it necessary. In addition, for all local authorities, in case of first allocation, the minimum staff stay becomes five years. Also for local authorities, an innovative aggregate method has been introduced between them for the management of selections, in view of the lists of fit for recruitment, both determined and indefinite. In article 4 of the decree, which concerns the functions and structure of the association Formez PA, has been introduced in the Commission an amendment on the composition of the Board of Directors of the association, where the members representing Regions, Union Provinces of Italy (UPI) and National Association Italian Municipalities (ANCI) will pass from two to three. In the text of the decree was inserted, as an amendment submitted to the Government, Decree-Law 23 June 2021, No 92, introducing measures for the strengthening of the Ministry of the ecological transition (Mite) and in the matter of sport. The main provisions are for the recruitment of specialized staff at the Ministry of the ecological transition. There is also action on the mission structure for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan at the Mite. Finally, the appointment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Minister of the ecological transition of a special envoy for climate change, with the task of allowing more effective Italian participation in international events and negotiations on environmental issues, is planned. In addition to some provisions on environmental impact assessment (EIA), there is an intervention on the statutory purpose of the public infrastructure company Milano Cortina 2020-2026 SpA. Finally, with regard to the organization and functioning of the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI), the possibility to define the articulation of its organic endowment, as well as the criteria and methods for recruiting staff to complete it, is referred to the same. Article 6 of the decree introduces for public administrations with more than 50 employees an integrated plan of activity and organization that covers, among others, the profiles related to performance, human capital, organization, transparency and anti-corruption. In the Commission, the deadline for submitting the plan was set at 31 January each year, including the obligation to ensure adequate information to trade union organisations. It is also expected that local authorities with less than 15,000 inhabitants will be able to monitor the plan by identifying an associated office at provincial or metropolitan level. Also in article 6, paragraph 2, the instruments defined by the Plan to achieve the objectives in the matter of transparency and anti-corruption will be defined in accordance with the provisions of the current legislation and the addresses of the National Anti-corruption Authority (Anac), with the objective, on the one hand, to safeguard the simplifying intent at the origin of the plan and, at the same time, to harmonize this discipline with the functions in charge of the anti-corruption authority. In Article 9 of the Decree-Law the resources foreseen for the assignments of collaboration to professionals and experts that the territorial authorities will activate for the support to the administrative procedures connected to the implementation of the Plan have been increased for each of the years 2021-2024. As far as administrative justice is concerned, certain rules have been introduced to facilitate the conduct of competitions already provided for in the measure, including, as a matter of priority, the diploma of the school of specialization for the legal professions. Other rules included in the Commission concern the implementation in administrative justice of the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the incentive to promote the participation of magistrates in the disposal plan. Finally, I would like to point out that the Commission wanted to include in Article 17 the principle of gender equality as a guiding principle also for the fixed-term recruitment plan provided for in the Decree-Law. Before I give the floor to Mr Caliendo on the justice side, I would like to point out that other issues remain open alongside the issues that have found a positive solution. I would like to point out two points to the House, which relate to certain issues relating to justice and in particular to administrative matters, which deserve to be dealt with by overcoming the corporate spirit and looking instead at the functionality of the administration of justice. I hope that the work produced on both fronts during these weeks will not be abandoned and can be resumed as soon as possible on a forthcoming occasion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u13	I call the rapporteur, Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u14	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Valente, in particular Mr Bini, for the help she has given these days. I believe that the measure we are examining is of fundamental importance, especially in the second part of its title: the efficiency of justice. In particular, a large number of recruitments to be carried out (16,500) are introduced, divided into two groups, as temporary aid to judges, as regards the ability to dispose of the work. We have already had experience of this process, carrying out a test in the Florence judicial offices, which received a positive evaluation. During our work in the Commission, we have introduced a number of corrections, which must lead to a greater capacity for intervention. In particular, the obligation of the remote relationship between the new graduates in law or economy, who must cooperate with the judge, has been removed. It will depend a lot on the coordinators of the various offices of the trial, in the various areas of Italy, to activate a direct relationship between judge and collaborators. Simply read the first profile of what they will be called to carry out: in addition to some simpler activities, such as the verification of the correctness of the procedural file, they also have the possibility to collaborate with the judge in preparing drafts of measures and to carry out research work useful to the judge in order to carry out his function. It is a model known since the late 1970s, for example, in the New York Customs Court, where even 16 judges then - and I believe they have remained so - have managed to cover the entire judicial landscape concerning the import and export of all the United States of America, closing all the trials, thanks to a strong collaboration that provided for each judge four lawyers and 22 staff. We must carry out this activity. As rapporteurs, we have introduced some additions in certain passages, also in relation to the functioning of the High School of the judiciary. At the same time, we had introduced an amendment aimed at improving the functioning of the Administrative Justice Council. However, in providing for the entry into force of the rules in September 2022, we have properly taken into account some comments regarding the time needed, which is why we have considered withdrawing the amendment, in order to re-submit that proposal on the Administrative Justice Presidency Council when discussing the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We have introduced an extension of the legislation for the honorary judiciary, which, as you know, with the Orlando reform was due to expire in the next few days, so that Parliament can intervene taking into account what the Constitutional Court has said recently about the honorary judiciary. Colleagues, allow me some reflections. Perhaps also thanks to the intelligence of the government, I do not say that we have changed the method, but we have been able to discuss a bit better than Parliament has recently done. I have always said that I am opposed to majority meetings: I said this when I was Undersecretary and I say it today as rapporteur, because I have always said this, when I was in opposition, as in the majority. The real activity in Parliament is when different political forces meet to achieve a product that has its own effectiveness. Let me give an example: the choice of a public administration not to implement mobility must be made only and exclusively if it is really necessary, not to put a flag. Each Member or Senator should therefore always feel a responsibility: it does not matter anything that an amendment is adopted, because after ten days the voters have forgotten it; what matters is the ability to carry out their parliamentary function for the realization of a legislative product consistent with the aims of the State and the realization of the interests of the citizens. [[Applause]] With regard to this situation, we must assume a responsibility, which we have largely managed to take, but perhaps we must make a further effort, namely to ensure that each small slice of intervention always aims at the general interest. Let me give you another example. The rule provided for the term "remotely": we corrected it, because it is not possible. The relationship between the judge and the court's offices must only be remote if there is a need for it. That is the logic, with which we have also introduced some changes made by the parliamentarians, which we have accepted as rapporteurs and as a government. This logic of cooperation between the Government and Parliament can only move along one line, and I also say this to the Minister of Justice, because we have voted on an amendment also against the indication of the Government that concerned the judicial offices of Abruzzo in relation to the issue of the earthquake. Did we do anything against the Executive? Do we want to challenge him? No. In this particular case, we have made an assessment: everyone - including the Government - should take into account that the experience and knowledge of the real by those who have competence in certain matters should be taken into account by the Commission itself, in order to create that synallagm between the Government and Parliament that can always achieve a positive relationship. Mr President, I should like to close my speech with the hope that the corrections introduced in the spirit to which I have referred may eventually be incorporated here or shared, but in reality. In fact, the rule, once dismissed by Parliament, assumes a completely different reality, which is put back to the interpreter, but also to the ability of employees, of those who carry out their activities in the public administration and of the administration of justice to implement the individual measures in practice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u15	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u16	Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank the two rapporteurs, Mrs Valente, who has been very useful in name and in fact, and Mr Caliendo, who is always attentive and particularly prodigal in his incredible and extraordinary capacity for work and in his lucidity of thought, which I want to acknowledge here and which, at least for me, are also a guide for my political future. I feel obliged to thank also the Undersecretary Bini, who I had not had the pleasure of knowing so well; but in these days, between the calls and meetings in presence, I could appreciate his way of working, his willingness to others and his incredible patience, to the point that the other night he said he did not feel good, because she was very stressed, but the next day I saw her back at work. So congratulations and congratulations - if you deserve them - to the Undersecretary for his work. Having said this, I would like to thank all the members of the two committees involved, the 1st and the 2nd, who have worked in a very constructive spirit to ensure that the amended, but appropriate, decree-law comes to this House today. Of course, there have also been moments of strong confrontation, but politics is this and it is beautiful for this: even from different positions, we are confronted and we must have the ability to achieve a synthesis. I must say that this was one of those occasions in which even very different starting positions found their moment of synthesis. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Luigi Vitali, for he has been able to play a very good role as a Leader in the first Commission. [[Applause]] , as well as my party's colleagues in the Justice Commission. This is how we are: we are a liberal party and we call ourselves a party of doing things, which, as Mr Caliendo said just now, does not want to put on small stars to say that we did something, because it thinks instead of a result for the Italians. I share the reason why Senator Caliendo called majority meetings unnecessary, if not inappropriate and inadequate. We're here to work for the Italians. Among other things, there are very few oppositions in this Parliament, in the sense that the colleagues of the Brothers of Italy have worked with a constructive attitude - I would like to acknowledge that and I believe that everyone should do so - and have voted for many of the proposed amendments, while many others have abstained, rather than voting against them. I believe that this is the right spirit to face a particularly difficult time in the country. I have said it, I repeat it and I will repeat it again: the ruling class of this country must be able to demonstrate at this moment great character and great sense of responsibility, and it is not a way of saying, because it is fundamental. We must think about the future of Italians today, now, because the decisions we are making in these hours, these days, will be valid for the coming years for our country. If we think that the growth index already before the Covid was very low and then, during the period of the pandemic, it collapsed, as in other countries around the world, we must be aware that with this Government we have the possibility to reach not important growth indices, but extraordinarily important for the future of Italy. There is a forecast for which the growth index will exceed 5% by the end of this year: this means wealth for Italians, jobs, oxygen for businesses and well-being for Italians [[Applause]] Then this is what we must always hold fast. Compared to the green pass measure, last night during a television broadcast I heard that over 70% of Italians are in favour of it; moreover, the majority of voters of some political movements and parties present in this Parliament, where positions are nesting sometimes similar to those of the no-vaxes, are in favour of restriction measures, because they do not force or limit freedom, but guarantee the suppression and defeat of the virus and therefore a return to normality. [[Applause]] That's the truth, that's the way it is. We must represent these citizens. Decree-Law No 80 of 2021, called recruitment, consists of two parts and is the reason why Commissions 1a and 2a were involved: one part concerns public administration, for which we must thank, in addition to my colleague, Mr Bini, as I have already done, Minister Brunetta as well. [[Applause]] , because he is really defining his role in this government as of prime importance. The truth is that he is picking up the problem of bureaucracy in our country, with measures that we are trying to improve even in Parliament. He therefore starts the process and we parliamentarians have a duty to improve his direction. All of us on this occasion, as in the so-called simplifications decree-law for our colleagues in the House of Deputies, have also improved the text issued by the Government. It is true that in fact ours has become a monocameral system, but once in the Chamber of Deputies and once again, as in this case, at the Senate of the Republic we intervene on the initiation of the procedure and on the decree-law prepared by the Government itself. I would therefore like to thank Minister Brunetta and our leader Anna Maria Bernini, who keeps us together and who ensures that the Forza Italia Group really represents a fundamental reference point not only for the Premier and for the Head of State, but for the whole people. The sense of responsibility and the experience that distinguishes us demonstrate them day after day in the work in the Commission and in this House. The measure under discussion follows exactly the approval of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the Decree-Law simplifications, which in fact is the implementing instrument of the Plan. The text under consideration is nothing more than the grounding of the decree-law simplifications for the implementation of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience, through a series of assumptions that should facilitate and weaken the bureaucratic apparatus (so much so that the provision is called recruitment), giving it greater momentum, and meeting a need that should represent the achievement of a goal that for us has always been almost a chimera, that is, the expenditure of the funds that will be given to us. As I mentioned in the explanation of vote on the simplification decree-law, in fact, historically we have always had a huge difficulty in this sense, especially - I admit - in the regions of the South. I say this with pain as a man from the South, but it is clear that we must take a step forward and have, ladies and gentlemen, the ability to change, to change our way of doing things, to achieve that expenditure that we have not been able to make. We do this through the recruitment in a hundred days, the inclusion of young people, the valorization of staff and the recognition of merit, which has not always been achieved in the public administration. I would like to conclude by reminding you that within the measure, as Senator Caliendo recalled, an amendment was adopted at the first signature of Senator Castaldi - who does not listen to me, but whom I thank - who had together with me and other colleagues elected in the Abruzzo Region, the ability to highlight and involve all political forces, none excluded, even those of opposition; this amendment provides that four minor courts - Lanciano, Vasto, Sulmona and Avezzano - remain open, which had an absolute need to know that they would have had at least two more years to operate on the territory. They are courts that were not to close, with this measure and with the help of all the political formations we fought all together and we gave a good demonstration of cohesion and ability to meet the needs of the territory for better functioning and efficiency of the justice system, in this case in Abruzzo and in the future I hope with a different geography of Italian justice. I thank all my colleagues, starting with Senator Castaldi, who was the first signatory, who contributed, including those belonging to the opposition formations. Thank you all and good work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u17	She's enlisted to speak Senator Gaudiano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u18	Mr President, the new path of public administration, with the gradual abandonment of the bureaucratic model in favour of a business approach, has its origins now dating back to our legislative system. The old hierarchical organizational structure, albeit with difficulty, has gradually been replaced by a managerial approach and a new vision of work no longer anchored to the concept of task, but organized to achieve objectives according to a logic of result. The urgent need to ensure an effective management model and an adequate availability of skills goes hand in hand with the need to rejuvenate public administration and ensure an efficient staff. The pandemic and all the difficulties that have resulted have made even more evident the problems present in our public administration. The shortcomings of specialized staff, the poor exploitation of skills and above all an average age of employees too high, which is around fifty years old: these are some of the distortions that need to be resolved. The need, therefore, to make public administration attractive in order to channel human resources and skills of excellence within it finds in the PNRR a new lifeblood, opening a season of public investment and desired rebirth. After years of cuts and austerity, we finally find resources and oxygen for reforms, so that we can bet on human capital, to invest in the enhancement of merit and to attract young professionals. The decree we are about to convert is part of this furrow. His 19 articles focus entirely on human capital, establishing simplified and extraordinary paths to strengthen the administrative capacity of public administration and justice, providing for transparent, fast and defined paths. Title I opens with the provision of special arrangements to confer professional duties giving the possibility to the public administration to charge the PNRR only the costs for the recruitment of personnel intended to carry out the projects of which the individual administrations have direct ownership of attraction, providing the possibility to resort to fixed-term employment contracts and collaboration contracts also for a period exceeding thirty-six months, with the only time limit placed on 31 December 2026. These contracts will have to indicate the PNRR project to which they will be referred, can be renewed and extended for a single time and will be subject to results assessment. In order not to waste the skills acquired, to enhance experience and to consolidate capacity, it will be possible to reserve a share of posts, not exceeding 40%, in the notices of subsequent competitions for the recruitment of permanent staff, in favour of the personnel recruited for the implementation of the PNRR that, at the time of publication of the notice, has gained an experience of at least thirty-six months within the administration. Article 2 of the Decree provides for the activation of specific training and work projects in the public administration through apprenticeship contracts for the acquisition of cross-cutting skills and vocational guidance of graduates and university students. Article 3 introduces new measures for the exploitation of staff and recognition of merit. In this respect, I tabled an amendment, 3,38 (text 2), which was adopted in the Commission, in order to enhance the title of PhD in comparative procedures for access to managerial roles and career advancements. In addition, the amendment deals with the assessment of the experience gained, giving weight to the type and not to the number of assignments, in the belief that a qualitative criterion is preferable to a quantitative criterion. With regard to the justice sector, the decree sets out new urgent measures for ordinary and administrative justice, in order to facilitate the operation of the Office for the trial and to ensure the disposal of late judicial proceedings. The Ministry of Justice will be able to use digital public administration platforms to start recruitment procedures for 16,500 units with fixed-term employment contracts and 326 units for administrative justice. The service carried out with merit by the subjects in possession of a degree in jurisprudence may be used as a title to enter the competition in ordinary judiciary, or as a professional internship for access to the state exam as lawyer or to the notary contest. It will then be the Minister of Justice who will identify courts and appeal courts to which resources are allocated, as well as the number of employees for each individual office. It will also be possible for the Ministry of Justice to initiate recruitment procedures through competitions for titles or written proof. It is also expressly provided for the criterion of sliding the rankings, also for different types of competitions for different judicial districts, where a ranking is incompetent. The staff recruited in this way will be employed for the disposal of the backward, preferably in remote mode, also in the perspective of the digital transition, which remains a firm point and a solid guide of the reforms from which it is no longer possible to ignore. In conclusion, merit, transparency, competence and the creation of new job opportunities are the guidelines followed by the decree. The expected benefits are twofold: to make public administration an attractive employer for young people and for the excellence of our country; to create opportunities for growth to improve the performance and services offered to citizens by public administration. These are very important challenges that we cannot give up, because a modern country deserves and needs a modern administration, attractive and dynamic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u20	Mr President, of course, the end of the measure before us can only be shared in all of us, especially those who have had the good fortune, as well as the burden, to be local administrators and to know the real conditions under which the public administration is in Italy, knowing how difficult it is to reap a result, particularly when we are faced with an ambitious job that, as was said, will fall on the life of our nation in the coming years. When it comes to strengthening the human capital of public administration, perhaps also raising professional quality and lowering the historical data, for us Brothers of Italy it is always an important moment, even if we must say that this requirement has existed for years. What comes from the decree-law under consideration is a response aimed essentially at the management of the policies related to the PNRR. However, we must consider that, after years of blocking turnover and lack of recruitment, our public administration was unable to manage ordinary administration as well, with a negative impact in terms of services to be given to citizens, businesses and all the social fabric that operates in the territories and that of course expects many other answers in terms of efficiency and speed. As I said in other interventions, as a local administrator I also knew extraordinary stories of professionals who made the choice of the public mission, although they could work in other private contexts, with salaries certainly more laute than those they receive from the State. Instead, they have chosen to serve the public mission and they must be given respect and gratitude. The approach to this measure - which has been recognised by the rapporteurs and I also thank Senator Pagano in this regard - as our custom we have tried to offer improved contributions, so that, on the altar of efficiency and contingency, the transparency that must accompany public choices should not be sacrificed. I would like to thank you for the adoption of some of the amendments we have tabled, aimed at transposing the requests from the Italian National Association of Municipalities (ANCI) and the Union of the Provinces of Italy (UPI). We therefore believe that we have served the nation and certainly not the majority and the government, who also demonstrate their fragility on this occasion. In fact, the majority seems to us to be a giant with clay feet, especially if we are faced with yet another vote of confidence. I too would like to thank Mr Bini, for the courtesy he has shown on the occasions of political confrontation, but the Undersecretary knows that the first thing we asked, given our absolutely open, cooperative and constructive attitude in the interests of the nation, was that the question of trust should not be raised. It seems to us, however, that we are starting to do this, after yesterday's afternoon, which I would call reckless, and we believe that this is a political point of extreme negativity. If even when there is this attitude on the part of the opposition, in a Parliament that has a majority of 95% in support of the government, the answer is to put trust, we are faced with something that oscillates between the incredible and the ridiculous. Mr President, if you will allow me to go for a few minutes off the subject, since we are talking about public administration, there are some political events that I hope the Council of Ministers will already address this morning, because they represent a real emergency. Mr. Undersecretary, we don't know the date of the local elections yet. Is it possible that in the only nation in Europe where the elections have been postponed, the date of the local elections is not yet known? We have mayors substantially on extension and we have to put in place all the political and party architecture of the lists, but we still do not know the date of the elections. Ensuring these rules of the game, in addition to fully efficient and legitimate administrative terminals, would be a security for citizens. Let me turn to the second question, which we were the first to raise some time ago, after the decision of the Constitutional Court which put over 1,400 local authorities in a position to approve their budgets. It is true that with the so-called support-a decree a figure has been allocated to deal with the imbalance that had been created in relation to the liquidity anticipation fund, but the distribution was communicated to the municipalities only on 27 and it is expected that these administrations will have to approve their budgets by 31 July (we speak next Saturday). This is materially impossible and if we do not want more than 10 million Italian citizens to live in failed municipalities, the date of approval of the budgets must be extended, again because of the government's delays. That is what thousands of mayors are asking of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u21	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u22	Mr President, I will be brief and use less time than I am allowed. We are today discussing an important measure aimed at strengthening the capacity of the public administration, which is also - but not only - objectively weakened because of the pandemic. In view of the country's restart, we are faced with the need to invest in terms of infrastructure and human resources. As a member of the Committee on Justice, I shall focus on the area of efficiency of justice, which is the objective which is being pursued, as can be seen from the very title of the measure. I would like to draw attention to what is contained in the PNRR in the area of justice, especially with regard to the objectives. I quote: the objectives of the Plan are to fully implement the Office of the Process; to strengthen the administrative capacity of the system and to compensate for the lack of technical skills other than those of a legal nature, essential to implement and monitor the results of organisational innovation; to strengthen digital infrastructures; to ensure the justice system efficient and modern building structures. On the basis of this assumption, I would like to draw attention to our speeches - both in this House and in the Commission - on the need to put petrol in the engine of justice, because on the ground we see very clearly that the courts, unfortunately, fail objectively to work fully and to ensure proper respect for the law, since for too many years we have let go of the machinery of justice by inertia. Today, with the PNRR, we have the opportunity to put our hands on this system, first of all - although it is not the object of this measure - by investing in the structures and buildings of justice. We also have the opportunity to invest in human resources, which, as I said before and also on other occasions, represent the real petrol to be put into an engine which, unfortunately, has been abandoned. Unfortunately, I cannot remain silent about this. A little while ago we all referred to Mr Cartabia's predecessor, who thankfully has always shown great attention from the point of view of human resources, while previously all the appeals we have made have always fallen into the void. I distinctly recall many interlocutions with former Minister Bonafede, who have never received a minimum of response or acceptance. Just a few days ago I made a reference to the situation of my forum, that of Monza, which complains an important deficiency in organic plant, although it is the sixth court of Italy. But these considerations apply not only to my forum, but to many others, such as the Bergamo court, but we could take many other courts, for example, which work only because there are people who go beyond their limits and we must thank them for that. Within this measure we are going to have an impact on this. It is certainly a good thing that we are now making a commitment to the justice machine and to the citizens. We make a commitment, which of course then the Government and all of us in Parliament must lead to full implementation. The downside, however, is the fact that we probably did not have to wait for the PNRR and - alas - the pandemic to do so: these were problems that we should have seen and resolved much earlier. However, we are in this situation and we certainly cannot back down. Let us take what is within this text, which has been drawn up in the headquarters of the relevant Commissions; on the contrary, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the members of the 1st and 2nd The Commission, in particular my group's colleagues, for the great work that has been done on all the amendments, not only those relating to justice. Turning back to the ideas relating to the world of justice, within this measure, in Article 11, it is going to affect the staff of the office for the trial. I can only recall some of the problems that we had already raised with regard to this institute, which was objectively created to try to solve a problem, but it probably creates others, at least within the management of the administrative machinery and the machinery justice. These are, of course, criticisms that come from those who live in the courthouse, because those who have no way of working in the courtrooms probably don't even know what the courthouse is. Then, in practice, in the implementation of the rules, there are problems objectively, but we will try to solve them, because we are here to try to solve the problems, certainly not just to complain, as someone else probably does. One thing that needs to be stressed is that, within all the reforms that we are pursuing, starting with this, we must try to put those resources that I was talking about before, into a system that then goes into operation and actually works. Otherwise, we risk simply bringing something positive into a car that is still still. We must not allow this, but instead we must allow the machine to run, while respecting the law, because even within all the other revolutions that we are seeing, such as the reform of the civil process and the criminal process, we are always looking at what Europe tells us within the direction of the Plan, namely that justice must be fast. I would add that justice must be swift, but it must be fair, in compliance with the rules of law of the judicial order and the legal order, otherwise we fail to hear those calls that are within the Constitution and that we must keep in mind constantly, all of us who work within the legislative classrooms. This is not the place and the time - I repeat - to discuss the other reforms that are being considered in Parliament, but we must remember that when we talk about strengthening public administration and strengthening justice, we must do so by following two elements: speed and discretion. I would like to address the Secretary-General here, whom I thank for the patience he had during the meetings of the Commission, at times exhausting, but, objectively, I believe that a better job could be done. I'm sure you do. I'm sure you do. Our Group has also complained. We certainly start from a base, though. In the implementation of these rules, however, and in bringing these rules to efficiency and effectiveness, we must be quick and careful. Quickly because we must act quickly, because our system needs these new forces to be placed as soon as possible, in a wise manner, then avoiding that all the resources that we are putting on the table are wasted. I do not want to go any further, but I simply remember that the reform of justice, the reform of the staff of justice and of all those who work in justice does not stop at 2026. We must work today to ensure that the whole justice system goes to the regime and goes to the regime seriously. On this last point, I would like to remind you of the warning given by the President of the Union to the last National Forensic Congress, in which he said very clearly that it should not be forgotten that justice is not always justice fast and vice versa. We therefore work to ensure that it is as fast as possible, but always respecting citizens' rights. I turn to my group's explanations of vote. I thank you for your attention and, of course, I hope that the measures will really come into the courtrooms and classrooms of the public administration, so that all citizens can finally have at least an effective and efficient service. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, in dealing with the decree-law that we are converting today, which aims to strengthen the administrative capacity of the public administration, allow me to reflect on my career path. I've been 25 years in public administration. The feeling that I have always had was that procedural form and rigour were much more important than substance and objectives, that relations with the political world were much more important than individual, sometimes critical, professional contributions, and that individual work was more important than team work. I conclude by saying that communication, if too clear and transparent, was also considered less professional than the so-called bureaucratic language. Then I went to work in the private sector and realized that the situation was exactly the opposite. Therefore, I wondered why some functions, more typical of the private world, did not enter the public administration and the so-called procedural rigour, more typical of public administration, did not allow the market instead. I say this because, in my opinion, it is misleading to think that there is a contrast between the market and public administration, which must be able to coexist in a balanced and complementary way. A healthy economy is certainly an economy that needs both aspects: good rules, quality public services and dynamic and innovative businesses. I remember, moreover, that Prime Minister Draghi said that the recovery plan can, but above all must, be a great activator of private investments, a sort of leverage to raise the country's economy. These are words that have an extremely important specific weight. I believe that we are all now convinced, because we are saying this in the work of the Commission, in this House and everywhere, that the recovery plan offers the possibility of improving the functioning of public administration, stimulating private initiative and thus modernising the economy. Without any excessive emphasis, but with absolute pragmatism, since politics must also be pragmatic and not only dogmatic, we can say that the success of the reforms, the interventions, the wide-ranging projects of the recovery plan will depend on the opportunities that Italy will offer to the next generations. The word reform occurs very much; let me then reflect on modern reformism. I heard about it the first time I got closer to politics back in 1989. I am not referring to reformism tout court, but to socialist reformism in order to recall the political attitude that characterized some socialists of Bettino Craxi - Minister Brunetta, Tremonti, Sacconi and Frattini - with respect to the dogmatics of the communists, on the one hand, and to the philosophy - let me pass it this way - of pulling to life of a Christian-style, on the other. I am therefore talking about a vocation to change and above all about the modernization of our country. How do you modernise a country? With a mental attitude of optimism of the will with which we must absolutely look to the future. If I had to go back to work in public administration at my age today, I would really ride the desire for change and modernity to fight that immobilism and conservatism that we still found in the first two decades of the new century. Moreover, immobilism and conservatism are among the main factors behind the substantial economic stagnation of our country, which instead already twenty years ago, precisely because we faced a new century, should have grown. As Mr Pagano said before, our country did not grow before the pandemic. There has always been a very unsatisfactory dynamic of the productivity of the services sector, in which the public administration has a considerable weight. We have to ask ourselves whether all the reforms of the last 20 years have worked, some of which I have even experienced as a public employee: spending review, cost centres, performance assessments, which have, moreover, been declined with the same parameters in all sectors of public administration, when we know perfectly well that there are sectors of it that have very different characteristics from each other. We must ask ourselves whether all these reforms, on which mountains of paper have been produced, have worked. I would say no, because if they worked, we wouldn't be in this situation. These questions need to be asked because analyzing the margins of improvement, which are really many, is important because however the resources spent on the public sector amount - from the data of the last report of the Bank of Italy before the pandemic - to 45% of GDP. So if we are going to spend even more now, because we are talking about major assumptions anyway, we have to, regardless of the percentage measure - we can also spend more than 45% on total GDP - but we have to spend very well. Let us return to quality rather than to the quantity of public expenditure. After all this analysis, very briefly I add a few suggestions. Firstly, in my opinion bureaucracy without a career is an oxymoron. We know that in the public administration the employment relationship is long-term; specific skills are developed that are absolutely not expendable in an immediate way elsewhere, therefore, reforming the competitions giving an important weight to the merit and the diversified competences - the so-called horizontal competences - would be a suggestion that I allow myself to make. At the same time, young people - and I believe this has been introduced - should be given the opportunity to do the so-called apprenticeship, exactly as happens in private companies, and therefore training on the job, so called, to which to assign a certain score at the time of the competition. Again, I have seen that the spending ceilings relating to ancillary economic treatment can be exceeded. This is good news, but the suggestion is to try to use the rewards to favor the turnover that helps to expand the so-called skills and opens to work in teams, an unknown concept in the public administration where there is a very individual job, a more or less qualified professional contribution, but individual. We must learn to work in teams, above all, I repeat, in relation to the great challenges of the future, and I am referring to the part of the digital and ecological transition. In order to measure the efficiency of public expenditure, I believe that the mechanism underlying the internal controls that work - let me say - must be changed, not too well. Therefore, the external control of the Court of Auditors must be completely rethought, which, in my opinion, must be brought closer to the organisational model of the American Government accountability office. In conclusion, there must be no overlaps between the Formez PA and the National School of Administration and I make a recommendation with respect to the Integrated Plan of Activity and Organisation, in the hope that it will not be an insurmountable dossier of unclear, non-transparent and above all non-productive pages and pages in terms of data. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u25	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard confident thoughts and many thanks for the work that has been done. Honestly, I do not like the role of a buzzkill and I do not like it any more, but, at this stage and in the light of this measure, I must, unfortunately, do so. The reason is that I see in this text a kind of fairly full-bodied hole that concerns the complex of the national health system. When it comes to reforming the recruitment and structuring procedures of the public service, the health side remains outside, which compared to public employees, I do not mean that it is of greater quality, but certainly denotes greater compliance between the quality of the result and the effort to achieve it, even in terms of cost. Compared to the panacea that is called every day by so many colleagues, that is the funds of the PNRR, paradoxically one cannot fail to denounce - I also say this to my colleague Bini who is here and who, along with me, has been in the Health Commission until he has taken up his new office in the Government - that this measure, as you know, only allocates 8% of resources to the health sector. This measure, which is not well understood to what extent it acts also in the health sector (it is not clear and we will wait to see the implementing decrees), if anything worries us, because it even adds additional elements of precariousness in an area where everything is needed except to insecure further. In health care you need to hire. In the entire Covid affair, we have hired just over 1,000 people indefinitely. The turnover up to 2020, due to retirements and voluntary dismissals (which have been many), amounts to a much higher figure, seven or eight times higher. In the National Health Service, therefore, there is a need for 7,000 to 8,000 permanent professionals, replacing some 5,000 retirements and about 3,000 voluntary resignations. The most represented nationality in the world among the doctors who work abroad compared to their country of origin is the Italian one: we train doctors and extraordinary professionals, we take charge of it in terms of cost of training and, because of blindness and a misfellow and misunderstood corporateization, these doctors and professionals put their noses inside the National Health Service, smell or perhaps the smell that emanates and go away in many; they all lie in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, the United States, and are esteemed as the best of professionals. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, because if we do not quickly put our hands to the problem, these doctors do not return. The alibi is to say that they go, they become aware, they learn, they acquire skills and they fall; but it is not true: they no longer come back and they are also right. In this decree-law, if it has the ability to affect, I see only further ability to insecure. And yet there would be work to be done. Consider, ladies and gentlemen, that between the decision to hire a doctor and his taking up office in Italy it takes about two years, so let there be a measure that slims down these junkiness. Welcome, and we'd miss you if we weren't aware of that. But this cannot happen through precariousness, because the doctor does not get precarious; the doctor rightly wants to be structured in his professionalism or as a self-employed professional or in the National and regional Health Service. All this in this provision is not there; on the contrary, there is the possibility that, using this provision, we act further in terms of precariousness. And this is certainly not the way. We have big issues to deal with, like the training funnel. We have considerably increased the number of places available in specialization grants, and that is fine. We have not yet filled up, as I said just now, not even remotely the necessary measure, but at this point we must immediately act - downstream or upstream, as you prefer - on the absurdity of the closed number. Now we will solve by increasing the specialization bags, but if we do not release the cork of the closed number we will not have professional doctors available to specialize. We need to contract the residents immediately in the fourth and fifth years, and we need to do so in the regional health services, in the hospital network. In this way, probably, if we could get rid of that bad smell that the National Health Service emits, maybe we could keep them even in Italy. All this must be done. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that in Italy, despite the fact that the Minister comes from a cultural and political compendium that would theoretically give guarantees in this sense (and not by chance I look at my colleague Errani), health care is being reformed without the knowledge of doctors. This is happening, unbeknownst to the doctors, who are guests of everything that is happening. This is not a joke, so I draw everyone's attention to this sector, which paradoxically should be kept to at this time also in terms of availability and resources (repeat, the PNRR devotes 8% to health). And so, even in a measure such as this, the large absentee is the health sector. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u28	Mr President, representatives of the Government, I could simply recall the speeches of my colleagues, such as Senator Pagano, who summed up in an exemplary way our position with regard to the Government and the issues discussed, our position within this Government, the hopes that we entrust to the exit of this country from the emergency, as it is trying in every way to do, and its move towards a different and glorious future of growth. Emblematic is the title of the decree-law under consideration, which speaks of strengthening the administrative capacity of the public administration functional to the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The text was renamed as a recruitment decree, with a formula not fantastic but by the economy of war (in the end we said it is so). The term'recruitment' is something that refers to rationing, to raking; it is not this; we can improve the adjectives in the measures and in this sense I refer directly to the punctual, precise, unattainable call of the friend and my group leader in the Commission Justice, Senator Caliendo, who calls us on the function of parliamentary policy, which we have forgotten: Parliament speaks, discusses dialectically, deals with issues outside the ranks of majority and opposition and the opposite typhoseries. This constant and continuous climate of typhus, of organizer of typhoseries is not good, because the law represents the general will; his speech in a certain sense recalls Rousseau, but overcomes it. I say this to my friends 5 Stars who so loved the quotation of an important philosopher, but the theme evidently puts him within the function of politics, which is useless, dead. Senator Zanda, when he was Head of the PD, promoted a seminar with Professor Severino, who explained that politics can do little by now, is over, because it is over: the ability to determine the ends does not belong to politics, but to the technique, which moves them from time to time, so the relationship between medium, man and technique has changed our paradigms. Turning to the decree-law, the part of justice must obviously be linked to the great work being done on the reform of the civil and criminal trial, partly, still in the cloud, of the judicial system. In spite of the Palamara case and everything we have seen, we are timidly facing the reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Let's start with a given: the disposal of processes. Italy is not going bad, in the sense that we can define more trials than they enter the courtrooms every year. This is a problem, because it means that we have less work, it means that we work less in the courts because of the pandemic, but also because of the fact that the work has changed: 230,000 lawyers, 7,000 ordinary judges, two million pending cases. Within these data we must organize the function of justice. The European Union tells us that we need to get to faster processes. That is fine: Minister Cartabia organises a reform of the civil process that reduces the civil process and the criminal process by 20% or 15%; a criminal trial lasts on average four years, a civil trial seven years, the bottleneck we have in the appeal process and in the cassation, by chance, is a tragedy. The Pinto law states that the cassation process must last a year, which we have for years. Coming to the aspects of this decree that require a reflection, the first is that the office for the trial is no longer the office of the judge, appoints consequentia rerum, so it means that we have imagined that the office for the trial is something that exceeds the direct management of the judge, a matter that with Senator Caliendo we have faced several times during the discussion of the decree. With an absolutely cooperative spirit - I would like Minister Cartabia to be present - I would say that I imagined that in the function of the trial office there was the construction of the office for the trial of the constitutional judge or the judge of the American Supreme Court, that is, of the one who is attached to the judge and works there together, while it is a staff office. Then we will have to think in some way about the future of these 16,500 people who are hired on a fixed time; we cannot leave them there and then send them home. From this point of view I marry the initiative of the Government because I am convinced that in the courts, in the public administration we can change the face of this country and make it more efficient. We need young people, computer scientists and so on. When we introduced the telematic civil process we thought that the first need perhaps to equip our structures with computer tools, not only computers, but also people who knew something about it in the organization of systems. The problem is that it wasn't like that. I would not - and I am sorry to say to the Government that Minister Cartabia is not here - that the trial office should end up with the President of the Court using this staff for a registry role. It is not my intention to diminish the role of chancellor, but you know that when there are criminal hearings there is someone outside the courtroom who calls witnesses and I would not want a young graduate practicing to be used for this because there is a shortage of this staff in the courts. This is because the Constitution in this regard is essentially dual, in that it states that the judicial function belongs to the magistrates, that the magistrates are governed by a body of self-government that is the Supreme Council of the judiciary, absit iniuria verbis, and that the material organizational function is the responsibility of the Ministry. In several conferences, the judiciary and also the democratic judiciary have tried to think about making the machine more efficient. Someone raised a parallel with the organization of hospital models. Once the chiefs organized everything, then the managers arrived, from the eighties onwards the process of corporateization of the health system began. It's clear you don't put an engineer to operate in the O.R. However, we cannot think that in a large court and in a large prosecutor the problems of organization of work are dealt with by means of which we do not know who does what and who decides what and for which the function of the judge cannot be in contrast or collide with that of the management of the staff office and the chancellor. I am concluding, Mr President, because I am also short of arguments. [[Applause]] A joke. There's something interesting in the papers today. Some say that the next election should be tied to a constituent. It is not a banality, and in this regard I quote Costantino Mortati and the strength of the constituent power: it is not a small thing and perhaps we would need a revision of the Constitution, also because, done as we thought and as you wanted, it was a disaster and it will be a disaster. [[Applause]] You didn't even get to monocameralism. We are within a bicameralism that fails to represent the territories and the real needs of the people. I am therefore now marrying the idea of a Constituent alongside the electoral system. The Einaudi Foundation's proposal is fair and reasonable. Finally, I am closing on a topical issue. I find some controversy out of place about the so-called prescription award and the solution that has been identified by Minister Cartabia. The real solution to the prescription is the return to a law that, at the end of the day, was not even bad, namely the ex-Cirielli [[Applause]] : Only Cirielli had noticed that he had not made a good law. That is the only possible solution, even if it is not what we want, because talking about improcability does not have to do with substantive law, this is the theme ( Professor Spangher, who was my professor, has remembered it these days). But if there are no other roads, we must go there; we must get out of that monstrum that you have created and bring back to the right tracks a judicial and judicial function that cannot be eliminated. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall concentrate on the part of this decree-law on the subject of justice, because it falls within the competence of the Commission of which I am Vice-President. I would like to start from the objectives that Minister Cartabia explained to us when he came to the Commission on justice, namely the 25% reduction in the current times of criminal justice and 40% of the current times of civil justice, because we are, of course, far beyond the European average, and far beyond reasonableness. We all know how much this chronic delay and chronic inefficiencies of Italian jurisprudence cost our economy. It is an objective that Europe has set for us and to which we absolutely must strive, if we want the other PNRR funds to arrive after the first 25 billion. Well, what is the answer, what is the government's plan to achieve this result? A reform of the criminal process that, as we know, is already bogged down in the internal quarrels of the majority and a reform of the civil process that, who has read, realizes that it was probably built by theorists who live within the Ministries, but who have never set foot in a courtroom. Along with these two reforms, which are unfortunately two reforms wasted, as they are expected, the Government proposes a huge strengthening of the office of the trial, with 16,500 new recruits to be included in this office, in two bands, hired for a fixed time: the first step for two years and seven months and the second step for two years. And do you really think that in this way we will be able to reduce the time of justice by 40%? I hope so, but I am afraid that will not be the case. In two years and seven months, or worse still in two years, there will only be time to train these young people, who will become precarious in the world of justice and who between two years or two years and seven months we should then pose the problem of how to stabilize. For these people in many courts there is not even a physical place. These people within the courts should go to assist judges, who are rightly accustomed, because the judicial function is exercised by the judge and not by his assistants, to examine the fact, to examine the right and to find solutions to the citizens' demand for justice. This is a path that only the judge can take. It is said that these assistants will go to do legal research, but it is no longer like fifty years ago, because such research is done with any database, in a few minutes: so there is no need! These young people are said to prepare the minutes of the sentences and measures: I would not like to end up having these young people write the sentences, because in this way they would violate the Constitution, or worse still I would not want these young people instead to be hired to do intellectual work and instead end up doing practical work within the gates, where there is a chronic shortage of staff. We know in fact that unfortunately 25% of the staff are missing within our chancellors, as we know that unfortunately there are 1,800 judges missing. Italy is not only one of the countries in Europe that has less judges per inhabitant, but we also have a staff hole of 1,800 magistrates, but we have 250 seconded to the Ministries. Mr. Undersecretary, if you had the courtesy to listen to the opposition too, since we are also few, perhaps it would be more appropriate to hire extra judges, take these 250 magistrates posted to the Ministries and send them back to the courts to write the sentences and perhaps send to the Ministries the young people you want to put in the office of the trial. This would be logical, but to demand logic in some cases is really very difficult. Mr President, I take advantage of the last few minutes I have left to talk about the honorary judiciary. Yesterday the Government presented in extremis an amendment asking to extend the entry into force of the Orlando reform. Obviously we have opposed this, because it is clear that the honorary magistrates deserve all the attention that requires their high judicial function and above all their sense of sacrifice and their sense of institutions, because they have continued to work under absolutely precarious conditions, to ensure justice even in these difficult months of pandemics. Gentlemen, we must, however, stress with concern that Minister Cartabia is seriously in breach of his undertaking to make a proposal by 30 June. It is at the end of July and not only is there no proposal from Minister Cartabia, but there is an infringement procedure threatened by the European Commission with a letter that has been secreted by the Government: in fact, at my request for access to acts the Commission responded by saying that the letter was confidential and could not give it to me. However, we know that in that letter it is written that the Italian Government is trampling on the right of workers of honorary justice, forced to live and work in a system of absolute precarious, without guarantees, rights, pensions, assistance and a decent compensation, despite the high function they carry out. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if this is the way in which the Government intends to solve the problems of Italian justice, I and the whole of the Brothers of Italy Group are genuinely very, very concerned. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u31	Senator Pirovano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u32	Mr President, I am sorry to have to repeat myself for my fellow Members of the Brothers of Italy, but I would really like to thank you for the cooperation that has taken place both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Commission on Justice. The work has not been easy for any of us, neither for the rapporteurs nor for the Undersecretary Bini. There have been moments of heated confrontation because each of us has made the battles that he considered fundamental for the success of the conversion of the measure under consideration, but always with the utmost respect. I liked to note that all the political groups insisted on some issues because they believed in them. One thing, in fact, is to table amendments just to do or because there are secondary elements to settle, while another is when there are passionate debates on some issues and everyone has more at heart certain issues. I report, among others, our battles, on which we have succeeded in achieving positive results, even if not at 100%. I am referring, of course, to the matters covered by the Commission's constitutional affairs and, more particularly, to the question of local authorities, that is to say, to public administrations which are territorially closer to the citizens. Some problems have been resolved which the measure, in its original version, was creating, and which are raised with great concern especially by the ANCI. I am thinking first of all of mobility. The measure provides for smooth mobility by the transferor administration throughout the public administration, with the exception of the education and health sectors. ANCI had asked - and we had tabled an amendment to this effect - to exclude local authorities from this obligation for administrations. Following a number of very detailed discussions and discussions both with colleagues and with the Department of the Civil Service, we were able to find a solution that would conform to the different sensitivities and that would be good for both the public employee and the administrations concerned about this legislation. So we go to normalize according to the number of employees of the municipality and the schedule for the transfer of the employee, that therefore is free to go to another agency in the municipalities with more than 100 employees. At the same time, we guarantee adequate timing so that the municipal administration can in the meantime draw from an existing ranking or launch a competition to ensure the replacement of staff. This is a problem present not in the metropolitan municipalities, but in the middle-small ones. Here, too, we have been able to really deepen the issue and find a solution. Moreover, this adds to the other problem - which had already been raised with a previous measure - of public competitions, which, according to the new method established for Covid, are online and have exorbitant costs. However, the matter has been dealt with, again in this case, with the competent Ministry and I am happy to know that Minister Brunetta, also following my speech and the agenda that I have also presented on behalf of my Group, which has been approved, has undertaken to understand what to do to help, in particular the small municipalities, in the financing of these competitions. I would also like to thank Mr Missa, because he has tabled an amendment in the Commission, which we have approved, which gives municipal public authorities the opportunity to compete in aggregate form, reducing costs. So you see that there are also colleagues who propose right things and we must recognize them if they are in the interest of the municipal authorities in this case. Another point on which we fought to the last with our nails and teeth is the age-old problem of municipal secretaries. [[Applause]] We were able to achieve at least one small result (it is fair to say, but I assure you that it was not easy, and I also thank you here for the collaboration of various Ministries): the 100% turnover compared to the cessation of the municipal secretaries last year. We haven't solved everything, because there are still too long times (about three years since one starts to do the competition and then passes to the course-competition), which must be shortened. Several hypotheses have been put forward by the union representatives of the municipal secretaries, on which we have worked, but we have not managed to get everything we have asked for, but at least a signal of attention, because the municipal secretaries are an integral part of the public administration and if a secretary is not there, a municipality will hardly be able to think about the PNRR, if it can not even do the Councils and the Municipal Councils. [[Applause]] There is also the possibility of extending, from twelve to twenty-four months, the time in service of the vice secretary, since there are so many municipalities in this country, I speak in particular of my Lombardy, where there is not really a secretary. So you take time and give yourself the opportunity to lengthen this replacement period. This measure, already in its basic text, is very important in that it embodies the wish of so many young people, who are favoured as a category for placing in the public administration, to enter to "age" the civil servants, giving new sap and freshness also to the work of the administrations. However, I would remind you that it is right to help young people enter administrations, but in certain administrations, especially in local authorities, young people must also want to go to work there. Here, in my opinion, is the core of the problem that will have to be solved sooner or later: we are building with this decree-law and this PNRR a beautiful 50-story skyscraper, solid, on the foundations that creak; in this case we are talking about the entities territorially closest to the population, which are the municipalities. We are putting resources in economic and personnel terms in public administrations and local authorities, but the resources needed for ordinary administration are lacking. I have also noticed differences in sensitivity among colleagues, who obviously do not represent the political line of their party, but personal visions, but I have been very embarrassed to hear some colleagues out of the air or during the Commission have had unhappy expressions such as "if a small municipality does not have the money to increase the salary to its employees, it can also close" or "the municipalities are too many". [[Applause]] Now, first of all, it takes respect when we talk about the municipalities and our mayors, a category in which I am proudly part, especially during this period, after, for over a year, they have been managing the pandemic and are continuing to do so. In these days, allow me to give a big hug to my fellow mayors, to their populations and to all the volunteers who throughout the peninsula, exposed to water, wind and fire, are working to help their populations. [[Applause]] In fact, I think that no one here has the habit, in their spare time, of shoveling mud, which mayors normally do. So, there are different sensibilities. I have asked, on an agenda that has been approved (certainly, with the formula "to evaluate the opportunity" but it has been approved), for the umpteenth time, in another form, to give back to the municipalities what has been taken away from them in the last ten years. The municipalities need money for current expenses, because with the funds of the PNRR you do not pay the electricity, you do not pay the gas, you do not pay the water, you do not pay the employees and you do not pay the basic services to the citizens. We give dignity to the Municipalities, please - I know I become boring, but I will repeat it to you until exhaustion - and more respect, because the sense of community of this country is that of the Municipalities. I think, in fact, that none of you would like to wake up one day and hear someone say: you are no longer in Milan, but you are by Cinisello Balsamo. So, respect. Being great doesn't mean being bullying the little ones, and I know something about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u33	Senator Toninelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to address two issues of this decree in particular. The first concerns Anac, the National Anti-corruption Authority; the second concerns justice. This decree is moved by the need to be ready for the recovery plan challenge: a lot of money that we can have if we can improve our public administration and our justice. So far, of course, we all agree. We are less so on how to do it. Let us start from the Anac question and from the fact that a state that has to spend large amounts of money must also be able to better control how this money is being used. So, more money, more checks. By this decree, which aims to strengthen the public machinery, we would have expected, therefore, a strengthening of the National Anti-corruption Authority, with the recruitment of new staff, as this decree rightly provides for for all other public administrations engaged in the implementation of the National Plan. Unfortunately, this not only did not happen, but, on the contrary, in the text of the decree laid down by the Council of Ministers, Anac was in fact weakened. In an attempt, of course, to simplify internal procedures for administrations, the text, however, made the role of the anti-corruption authority uncertain in the fight and prevention, precisely, of corruption. A gigantic problem, which, with great difficulty, we have managed to heal. I'm going to explain how. In the original text, the Department of Civil Service (then, a piece of the Government) replaced Anac's functions in relations with the major administrations, those with more than 50 employees. How did this happen? The public service entity becomes the body responsible for drawing up a standard plan, which would also contain the guidelines sent to the administration, precisely in the context of transparency and anti-corruption. Too bad that this is an Anac's own task of addressing, through the national anti-corruption plan. Despite the warnings and warnings of the current President of the Authority and, in an even more marked way, of his predecessor, at first it seemed that nothing moved: not in the Government, but, initially, not even within the parliamentary committees, where very few, besides us, raised the issue. However, what was written in some passages in the accompanying texts of the hearings was very clear. Raffaele Cantone stated that the provision of Article 6 of a power of the Civil Service Department to adopt a standard plan as a support tool for the major administrations, undoubtedly ends up interfering with the powers that the law assigns to Anac. And again: on June 30, President Anac Giuseppe Busia stated that a different allocation of functions in the field of anti-corruption and transparency would risk, first of all, not being in line with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. With these premises the ideal would have been to delete the norm that created this interference of the Government in the functions of the Anac; an interference generating uncertainty, just that uncertainty that is so loved by corrupt and corrupters. [[Applause]] We have, of course, tabled the deleterious amendment, but there were no numbers to approve it. Fortunately, however, we have managed to put things right by passing another amendment that clarifies how administrations, when drawing up their anti-corruption plans, will have to refer to the Anac guidelines and not to the guidelines of a part of the Government that, unlike Anac, is not an independent authority. We would never have allowed, at a time like this, the use of enormous economic resources, to lower its guard in the fight against corruption. [[Applause]] Then there is the question of justice, where several thousands of people are hired for a fixed time to dispose of the enormous amount of backward processes: certainly a positive choice, decided and planned by the Count Governments, to which now is added the Plan envisaged by the PNRR, but able to bring about the effects hoped only if well set. Here is some concern: just remember the flop of the recent competition banned by the Department of Public Service for recruitment to the South for the recovery plan: few participants and recruitment to the pole, 821 out of 2,800 places made available. We hope that the decrees of the Minister of Justice will be more effective than that of the Minister of Public Administration, but here too there is some concern if we consider the content of the so-called reform of justice that brings with it enormous criticalities. And it is not only us who say so, but also the professionals, those who work in the judicial offices; people who live the classrooms of justice with all their administrative machinery; people who deserve to be heard in order not to incur the typical error of presumption of thinking that, to make a reform, it is enough to know the theory learned from the books. In addition to the theory there is the practice, that of the problems that are experienced every day in the judicial offices and that only those who attend and work there can know. They are magistrates like Cafiero De Raho, the national anti-Mafia prosecutor who even spoke of a risk to national security and democracy. They are magistrates such as Gratteri, Di Matteo, Scarpinato, Grasso, Caselli and many others, magistrates and lawyers, with the addition - nothing less - of the rejection expressed by the VI commission of the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the opinion that will be discussed in the plenum and even by the National Association of Judges. An important negotiation is under way that sees all the Movimento 5 Stars engaged with Giuseppe Conte: we are working hard to improve the text. [[Applause]] We believe that it is necessary to exclude the most serious crimes, such as those of mafia or terrorism, from the trap of trial; but we also believe that this cannot be enough because there are many other crimes, with penalties well below life imprisonment, which must also be excluded from improcability. Let us think - for example - of the so-called spy crimes that often carry in the arms of the mafia or behind which it hides. Let's think about corruption or the many types of crime of violence. Europe does not ask us to cancel the trials, but to speed them up, to bring them to a conclusion with a sentence of condemnation or absolution. Ours must be a rule of law, not a state of impunity; just that impunity which could come despite a sentence of conviction at first instance, as provided for in the Government's proposal, for the mere fact that the two years for the appeal process have expired. To say that, after two years exactly from the conviction to first degree, the trial becomes impeccable is like saying that the high-speed train Rome-Milan has to take three exact hours to complete the route and, if not, once you take the three hours, stops forever and lets all the passengers down, [[Applause]] , even if it is in the countryside and despite the fact that passengers have paid the entire ticket for a service that is denied them for a brainic arrangement. When does all this happen? What is the context in which all this is happening? Exactly on the days when many politicians were sentenced to appeal. I am talking about the scandal called reimbursementpoli Lombardy, which concerned some former regional councillors, including the current leader of the League in Senate Massimiliano Romeo; or again, the convictions of former long-term MPs of Forza Italia, Nicola Cosentino and Antonio D'Alì, also condemned on appeal but this time for much more serious crimes. All - I repeat all - these politicians today condemned on appeal would have been unpunished if the Cartabia reform had already entered into force. Today is the time to talk about the content of the proposal to amend our justice. There are no ideologies or flags to wave; there must not be a clash between politics and the judiciary, as is all too often the case in some parties. There is and must be only the exclusive good for our country. It is now that we must and can avoid waking up one day when it will be too late with hundreds of thousands of deleted processes. And I'm convinced we're still in time to do that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u35	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur, Senator Valente, does not intend to speak in her reply. I call the rapporteur, Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u36	Mr President, I will not reply, but I will speak, after listening to Senator Toninelli, just to say that we will discuss and explain why he is wrong when we talk about the criminal trial. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u37	There will be time and place to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u38	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u39	Mr President, I take this opportunity not only to thank the rapporteurs, Senators Valente and Caliendo, for the valuable work they have done, but also for the constructive and important contribution - I mean - from all the groups, by majority and opposition, to our debate. As you know, the work in the Commission has been even complex at certain times and, therefore, the Offices have also had to make a huge effort, and I believe that I represent everyone's sentiment in saying that their support has been absolutely very valuable. Mr President, I am obliged to ask for a suspension of the Assembly's work in the light of the fact that, although the Government's original intention was not to put the question of trust - as Senator Balboni knows - and we also talked about it - the orientation has changed also in the light of the complexity of the measure, the votes and the work that has been done, so that once again all the texts require important work. Tonight the Offices managed to compose the maxi amendment, which is now at the General Accounting Office of the State, but it will take hours to recompose the technical reports and boil the text. I therefore call for a suspension of work until 7 p.m. this evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u40	As the question time is on the agenda at 3 p.m., perhaps we should make an assessment, at the end of the question time, of the point of arrival of the maxi amendment. I therefore propose a suspension until 3 p.m., when the question time will take place, and at 4 p.m. we will decide what to do if there is a further need for suspension. The Undersecretary agrees, Senator Romeo agrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u43	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I note that your proposal is certainly better than the Government's request, but allow me to express the opposition of the Brothers of Italy Group to this request, because the time to examine the amendments adopted in the Commission has been all: we have worked for a long time all day yesterday. Indeed, yesterday, in addition to the work, we had to endure long and exhausting interruptions for the divisions, the discussions and, even in some cases, even for the pitfalls within the majority, which the Undersecretary knows as I do and better than I, because she too had to commit a lot of her time to settle them. We not only believe that yet another confidence is an unacceptable vulnus for the dignity of this House, because it is now completely expropriated of all power and function to discuss the matter. A colleague said earlier that laws are the fruit of the general will, not the government and the votes of confidence. Here, on the other hand, there is no comparison. It is true that we have had the opportunity in the Commission to make some of our points, but in this House, as an opposition, we would have the right to discuss the measures, the amendments and also to explain those few of our amendments which - as you have all acknowledged - have been tabled in the interest of improving the measure we are debating. With the vote of confidence, among other things, you force the opposition to vote against, when instead we would also have the opportunity, improving the text, to arrive at a vote I do not say in favour, but maybe yes (or maybe not, who knows). From this point of view, I believe that in this House we have the right first of all to discuss the matter, but this is a right that is now being expropriated to us regularly. Secondly, we have a right to know at least the times. Waiting until 7 p.m. is truly unacceptable, but your proposal, Mr President, is also unacceptable. We have the right to know immediately when the debate can begin and when the final text and the report which must accompany the maxi amendment will be available. The proposal I make is that at 12.30 a.m. we return to the Chamber and the government will tell us exactly the time it asks the Senate to be able to continue in the examination and with our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u44	For the record, yesterday the Commission concluded its work at 8 p.m. The text containing the amendments adopted was forwarded at 4.15 p.m. this night to the State's General Accounting Office for the Packaging of Technical Reports. I don't have to be the public defender, but these are the numbers and contents. My proposal is of course also a moral one with respect to Accounting, so that it works with the utmost diligence and allows us - we hope today - to be able to approve the measure. As there is a disagreement with my proposal to re-evaluate the subject on the agenda at the end of the question time, I shall put it to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the discussion of the draft law at 4 p.m., in order to receive an update on this by the Government. It's approved. I therefore suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u45	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility and the Minister for Health will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. I note that, given the coincidence with the Council of Ministers, we will amend the order of questions and answers. Senator Matrisciano has the power to illustrate the question 3-02753 on the new railway center goods of Alexandria, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u46	Minister, I thank you for the time you devote to us today and for the attention you will want not only to the situation of the transport and railway infrastructure of the Piedmont Region, but, more specifically, also to the subject of my question, which will focus on a matter relating to my territory, namely Alexandria. The city of Alexandria represents the largest municipality of the Piedmont Region and is located in the center of the industrial triangle Turin-Milan-Genoa, constituting an important interchange node. Historically the Province of Alexandria was equipped with an important railway freight port, the sorting park of Alexandria, an area of over 500,000 square meters owned by RFI SpA and Mercitalia Rail, currently unused. As we know, in the context of the design of the Third Pass, Alexandria has been defined an important junction and, in the budget law for 2019, by the then Minister Toninelli are allocated about 2 million euros for the restoration of the sorting park of Alexandria. These sums are managed by the company UIRNet SpA, which today by press bodies I read has become DigITAlog SpA, which has to deal with the management of the project. Obviously the Alexandrian pole turns out to be a place chosen from the main terminalisti like PSA, between the world big of the logistic field, for which it would reenter to all effects in the larger plan of the great work commissioner of the Third pass. Minister, until now - and this is my concern, on which I ask you to comfort - beyond the press articles, the sorting park has not been included in the works to be commissary, nor in the projects of the PNRR: it is as if it had disappeared from the radar. My question is therefore what are the real interests, guidelines and projects of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility on the area of the sorting park of Alexandria; if it is possible to know the chronoprogram of the intense activities, as established by the agreement between the UIRNet and RFI and, in addition to the logistic strengthening of the area and therefore of the Province of Alexandria, how to favor the regional transport, including that of the passengers, in particular of the commuter workers, that today is in suffering. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Professor Giovannini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u47	Mr President, the intervention of planning of the new freight sorting center of Alexandria comes back between the activities of optimization of the logistic vehicular flows in the port of Genoa, previewed to article 6, of the decree-law 28 september 2018, n. 109, and entrusted to the extraordinary commissioner for the reconstruction of the Morandi bridge, that it has provided to insert it in the extraordinary program of urgent investments, approved pursuant to article 9- bis of the same decree-law. In date 19 July 2019 is undersigned, between the technical structure of mission of the Ministry, the authority of the harbour system of the Ligurian Sea western and the society UIRNet, now called DigITALog, a convention finalized to disciplinary the activities previewed from the cited article 6. That convention also concerns the design of the new freight centre in Alexandria, for which the agency of direction provided for by the same convention has established: in view of the existence of railway infrastructures, the signing of an agreement between UIRNet and RFI, in order to carry out the activities of inspection, analysis and planning of the sorting port of Alexandria (the agreement was signed on 4 August 2020); the establishment of a steering committee project, with the participation of all the institutions involved (the body was constituted on 21 May 2020); the definition of the functional requirements of the area subject of the intervention; the carrying out of a preliminary environmental assessment of the area and the possible development of a plan of modification and, finally, the preparation of a design of technical and economic feasibility, including the cost-benefit analysis. At the moment, of the 2,000,000 euros allocated by the 2019 budget law, for the carrying out of the planning activities, are engaged approximately 165,000 euros, used by the company DigITALog for the realization of the preliminary transport study to the elaboration of the planning of technical-economic feasibility by RFI, in implementation of the aforementioned agreement. DigITALog reports that the transport study will end in the first days of next September. As regards the restoration of the historical railway connections for the commuter, Ferrovie dello Stato has communicated that the necessary activity of analysis of the demand for transport is being carried out, the conclusion of which is previewed for the end of August. At the end of these two steps we will then be able to start the next steps. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Matrisciano has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer, which partially satisfies me, especially because some time has passed. I would like to say that, when we talk about great works in our territories - I am referring to the two great works: Third pass and TAV - there is always talk of enrichment of the territories, of new places of work and we speak of Alexandria as natural retro-port of Genoa and therefore to support the decongestion of the urban areas through the displacement of the traffic from rubber to rail. This is important, especially in view of what we call the green new deal. I therefore hope that in September there will be a development within that territory, which deserves to be central again and therefore no longer marginal, for all Piedmont and Italy as a whole. I ask for speed because, when it comes to citizens' money, it is also 1,000 euros, it must be remembered that it is money that citizens pay. I hope that the EUR 2 million allocated will be taken into account, that further investment can be made and that perhaps the work of the sorting park will be part of the Third Pass programme and, therefore, of the RFI programme. Excuse me, Minister, but I also like to make proposals: my complaint is not a complaint, but I like to propose it. So it could fall under the management of the Third Pass, also managed by Commissioner Mauceri. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u49	Senator Durnwalder has the power to explain the question 3-02757 on the criticalities in the issue of the green certification Covid-19, with particular regard to the Province of Bolzano, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u50	Dear Minister, the green certification Covid-19 makes it easier to travel to and from all the countries of the European Union and the Schengen area. In Italy, green certification is used to participate in parties, for civil and religious ceremonies, to access health care homes or other facilities, as well as to move in and out of the territories classified in red or orange. Article 3 of Decree-Law 23 July 2021, n. 105, provides that, to date from next 6 August, the green certification will serve to access any kind of catering service at the table indoors, shows open to the public, sporting events and competitions, museums, institutes and places of culture, swimming pools, gyms, wellness centers, fairs, festivals, conferences and congresses, spas, theme and amusement parks, cultural and recreational centers, playrooms and casinos, public competitions. Given the information received from the health company of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, it seems that about 70,000 people who have carried out the vaccination anti-Covid, despite having received from the Province the certificate vaccination Corona pass, complain that they have not yet received the code authcode to access their green pass. The requests of the code authcode by the interested parties were requested, but without success, according to the indications available on the website of the Ministry of Health, i.e. by contacting the number 1500 or by e-mail addressed to the e-mail address. The Autonomous Province of Bolzano regularly transmits to the national platform the data of the people vaccinated against Covid-19, those cured and those who obtained a negative result to the antigenic molecular test. The health company of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano has already asked the Ministry urgently, on July 20, a series of technical information and proposed different solutions to solve the problem complained. Therefore, given the growing concern of those who have not yet obtained the green pass and who, since 12 August 2021, will no longer be able to use the vaccination certificate issued by the local health service to access the above mentioned services or to travel, what are the reasons that hinder its release, the necessary time and the ways to solve the problem. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the interrogators who allow me to touch, although quickly, the subject of the green pass that the Government considers to be an essential part of the strategy for managing this epidemic phase, which is different precisely because it is characterized by a high percentage of people vaccinated in our country. We believe that the green pass is a very important tool that can help us make safer the places where it is applied and that will certainly help us limit restrictions. The numbers of the green pass in our country are certainly very encouraging. At 7 a.m. this morning, 41.3 million green passes were downloaded in Italy. This is an absolutely significant fact, which also signals a digital turning point in our country. I come quickly to the numbers of the Province of Bolzano, as they are reported to me from our offices. In the Province of Bolzano 499.874 green passes were issued, of which 51.242 were for buffer, 48.995 for healing and 399.637 for vaccination. The Province of Bolzano has transferred 265,870 e-mails to the national authorities which have been used to send the Authcode and 96,910 telephone numbers to which the SMS has been sent. There are about 36,850 people who have not been referred to either by e-mail or by telephone. Those people can safely download their digital green certificate through the IO app. We have also strengthened the call center that serves exactly these purposes. In addition, I would like to inform the Senate Assembly that it will soon be possible, even through the site, to have an automatic authcode generation mechanism that will make the procedure even easier. I confirm, in conclusion, that it is the Government's intention to continue investing in this instrument, which we consider very important for the management of this epidemic season. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Durnwalder to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u52	Minister, it is right that the state should call for maximum cooperation from citizens in the fight against coronavirus. On the other hand, the state must also play its part, both in the organisation of vaccination and in the timely issue of green certification. With regard to this last aspect, there are 70,000 people who are reported to me of the local health company (she speaks of 36,000 people) who have been waiting, for weeks and some for months, this green certificate in the autonomous province of Bolzano alone: they are really too many. I therefore hope that, in particular, the technical problems that are being pointed out to me can be resolved quickly and that this will lead to an improvement in the situation. Pending this improvement, I am only partially satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u53	Senator Parente has the right to explain the question 0-32759 on the extension of the use of green certificates and the phenomenon of counterfeiting, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u54	Mr President, we are still talking about green passes, which will enter into force on 6 August, a measure which - as the Minister recalled - intends to preserve ourselves and others from contagion, protect economic activities, avoid further closures, and defend the vaccination campaign that is going very well, with massive youth membership. We are happy for the responsibility of the citizens. Precisely for this reason I ask you, Minister, if and how you intend to organise a more precise monitoring of some critical issues that our citizens still encounter: you cannot always receive the code for the generation of the green pass in timely times; you need more attention to those who have healed from Covid and have not managed to get the green pass (it seems to me that throughout the national territory this problem has largely been solved, but it is not always so). Another critical issue is among the vaccinated AIRE (Anagraphe degli italiani residenti all'estero), because we understand that there are some people who, even if they are vaccinated here in Italy, have not yet had the green pass. Furthermore, I would ask you whether you intend to clarify, as soon as possible, which are the subjects exempt from vaccination, in addition to those exempt from vaccination by age, as provided for in Article 3, paragraph 3, of the recent decree of 23 July 2021. We know that the Ministry has also done so much to avoid the counterfeiting of green passes. There is a dedicated app, but I ask you how you intend to communicate these initiatives to citizenship, which you are often unaware of. One last point that we particularly care about is the access of relatives to hospital facilities and how we intend to implement the decree of 23 July has extended the possibility of the entry of relatives - and we are happy about this - but we must reach the possibility for relatives of patients admitted to the wards, of course in extreme safety, because I believe that the presence of the patient's family is essential for the treatment of diseases. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u55	The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u56	I thank the interrogators for having grasped the spirit of the green pass, which goes exactly in the direction of trying to limit the restrictions as much as possible at a different stage of the epidemic, because the epidemic is still underway, but having vaccination numbers now very significant, with the tool of the green pass we can try to build a different strategy. As I said, these numbers are significant of a story that leaves us satisfied as a Government, because to date 41.3 million certificates have been downloaded, a very high number that we see grow at the rate of 1.2-1,3 million per day. Our machine is also working to intervene more punctually on specific cases where there are any difficulties. I believe that the possibility, which will be concrete in the next few hours, of automatically downloading the Authcode code through the portal is particularly significant. This will certainly be a huge aid. Already today, the IO app, the presence and the help of pharmacies and doctors of general medicine, the many methods put in place have allowed a result that, honestly, is really very important. On the specific points that were placed, even compared to AIRE, there is a work in progress. I hope that, at the beginning of next week, this work will lead to a definitive solution. On the case of the RSA, the hospital wards and the hospital wards, Article 4 of Decree-Law No 105, approved at the Council of Ministers on Thursday, extends the provision which, in truth, I had assumed, by my order, on 8 May for the RSA and which Parliament, when converting a previous decree, had already substantially legalized. In fact, it extends also to hospital departments. I would like to point out, among other things, that at Agenas we have built a working group with the Regions to monitor the respect of this indication by everyone. Therefore, at this moment a current rule already provides for the use of the green pass, not only for the RSA, but also for access to hospital departments. This working group of Agenas, set up with the Regions, aims precisely to monitor that this right is fully exercised by all. In closing, I still think that this instrument is really fundamental and that it can help us manage the stage we are going through in the best possible way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to the Senator Parente to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u57	Mr President, Minister, I think that the commitment on the site is an important issue. I am therefore satisfied with the first part of the reply. I am convinced, also knowing his attention to the issues of fragility, that the green pass can serve the people admitted in conditions of fragility and their relatives. We know that there are frailties that do not last a lifetime for many citizens, but that they are also momentary frailties when there is a hospitalization. I think we have to go further. We get hundreds of messages a day. One citizen wrote to us: a friend of mine saw her mother leave in an ambulance for an emergency and could not go to the hospital even with the swab. Some hospitalized people tell about crying in turn and comforting each other about not having family members next door. This epidemic has taught us that we must take care of others and the most fragile. So, we have to write some rules. Parliament will play its part now that the decree-law that you mentioned arrives. We need to write more stringent rules and clear guidelines for them to be implemented and to help health structures, regions and ASLs to allow family members to be close to their relatives at a time of fragility. We must get out of this epidemic with a great solidarity of all citizenship and the ruling class. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u58	Senator Zaffini has the right to explain the question 0-32756 on vaccination against the Covid of children under 16, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u59	Mr. Minister, we have some concerns that we would like to explain to you. The first concerns the possibility that the Ministry intends to proceed with vaccination, which is defined by mass, and, therefore, intends to recommend to the Regions to push on vaccination to the 12 years old and the 13 years old, despite the existence in the scientific community wide ranges of doubt regarding the possibility of quantifying the famous cost benefit of this vaccination, that is the possible problems deriving from a vaccination of a person who faces a life expectancy of about seventy years. Since, for example, the informed consent of the Pfizer vaccine states that you are unable to assess the long-term effects of the vaccine, having a 12-year-old about seventy years of life expectancy, who takes this responsibility? First question: Minister, are you and the government prepared to take on this responsibility rather than dump it on the parent who, through the signature of informed consent, must make a choice that will surely make him spend a few nights blank? Second question: Minister, if this measure, as you say, serves to ensure that we return to school safely, what are the other measures you intend to take, as a government and you, as a minister, in the next forty days - we are talking about this, we have forty days - to ensure that we return to school safely? Today you had to draw up a plan for returning to school safely; we find that the announcements did not follow the plan because it is not there. For example, you could think of free salivary swabs for teachers, ATA staff and students, implement school sites to avoid the so-called chicken classes, regulate local public transport to ensure safe transport and find solutions to reconcile parents' working hours to encourage the use of private cars to take children to school. There is no trace of this, Minister, we are waiting to hear your answer. These are questions that Italy asks, not Brothers of Italy, and especially if parents ask them to sign the consent in order to vaccinate the children of twelve, thirteen and fourteen years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u60	The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogators for the opportunity to make it clear that for the government the vaccination campaign is really the key tool for closing this difficult season. The Italian numbers are really very encouraging and I believe they are heritage of the whole country, without any distinction. We administered 67 million doses this morning, with 66 percent of the vaccination population receiving the first dose and 58 percent of the people who have already received the second dose. Also in the age group between the twelve and the nineteen years the numbers are encouraging. In fact, even though this vaccination started much later in time, 30 percent of those vaccinated in that age group received a first dose and 15 percent also the second dose. As is well known, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) have also approved these vaccines for the age group between the ages of twelve and nineteen and the Government, as it has always done in these difficult months, believes that choices of this nature must have the basis of scientific evidence. We have faith in our international institutions, the EMA, on the one hand, and the AIFA, on the other. AIFA, among other things, approved the Modern vaccine for the age group between 12 and 19 years of age yesterday, while Pfizer's vaccine was approved on 31 May. Our national scientific community, which has long been confronted with this matter, has expressed a favourable opinion on this vaccination. Our Scientific and Technical Committee, of which the Chairman of the Higher Health Council is a member, has repeatedly made statements to this effect, the President of the Higher Health Institute and the President of the AIFA itself. Even the Italian Society of Pediatrics, with a formal expression, recommended vaccination. The main reasons are two: the first is that vaccination protects those who receive the vaccine. Even in this area, unfortunately, there are cases of people contracting the virus with a consequent gravity situation. Unfortunately, we have seen in a very recent fact of the last hours, in the city of Palermo, Sicily, how an eleven-year-old girl has even lost her life. In addition, those who vaccinate not only protect themselves but help the protection of all others and there is no doubt that even a vaccination within that generational belt will facilitate the reduction of the circulation of the virus. This is all the more true if we look at the second area of the question that is being asked to me, namely the question of schools. We are at work to build ways that will allow us to resume and restart in presence and in safety. That's the government's goal. Our Minister for Education has opened a dialogue with the social partners, with the trade unions, with all the various representatives of the school world. There is an open discussion also with the Regions and the Government will certainly not miss a very strong initiative also on this topic to achieve an objective that we consider absolutely strategic.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u62	Senator Zaffini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u63	Minister, we are pleased with the numbers that you show us about the vaccination campaign, because Brothers of Italy is a pro vax party. Having said that, we ask ourselves some questions that we would like to have given a serious answer to. In fact, if you are sure that there is no problem in vaccinating a 12-year-old, remove from informed consent the phrase that says that we are not able to predict the long-term effects. [[Applause]] That sentence needs to be removed. At least assume that responsibility. Minister, you're taking the necessary precautions to go safely to school. Well, also in July and August last year we saw what happened with the measures you were planning - you were also Minister in the previous Government - and we saw that we went back to school in September without taking the necessary measures and what we know happened. The measures are needed, but since yesterday, Minister, not today or tomorrow, but yesterday, because there are forty days to the opening of the school and to take serious and real measures we do not have the material time to do so. You had to fire the school plan today; you postponed it further. The obvious feeling, Minister, is that you dump all the delays and failures of an entire apparatus. Let us be clear: it is not only you, as we have said a thousand times, and we do not feel guaranteed by the presence of luminaries in the technical-scientific council, the Higher Institute of Health or the whole cucuzzaro! There is a clear desire to dump on citizens, with further restrictions on business and individual freedoms, the delays and failures of the State and the Government. Brothers of Italy is a pro vax party, but... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u64	Senator Errani has the right to explain the question 0-32755 on the use of green certification in social and school activities, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u65	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the work you and the whole Government are doing. The results on vaccination are absolutely encouraging. Just today the Gimbe Foundation has published the data of the last week - I don't know if colleagues have had the chance to look at them - which shows an increase of 64.8 percent of cases; an increase of 34.9 percent of admissions with symptoms; of 24 percent of intensive therapies and 46.1 percent of deaths. I hope that this data will make everyone reflect. Get out of the useless and harmful narratives, so maybe we can all tighten around the intelligent and responsible synthesis made by the President of the Republic: who limits our freedoms is the virus, not the tools to defeat it. Colleagues and colleagues, the element of clarity and clarity, without ambiguity, on the issue of vaccines and the management of the vaccination campaign is a responsibility of all of us, not only of the Government or of the General Son. Italians need clarity and unfortunately sometimes there isn't. I would like to ask the Minister a precise question. School and transport must be speeded up. Honestly, I am not convinced of this last postponement; we need to articulate schedules and make a choice about teachers and the green pass and we need to solve the transport problem. We cannot find out in a month that these problems are not solved. The DAD cannot be the answer: the choice of all of us is in presence and this requires extraordinary interventions and, on the part of all of us, the cessation of ambiguous messages. Vaccination is crucial. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u66	The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u67	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogators who allow me to return to a point that I believe is decisive in interpreting the stage before us. The numbers reported by the Gimbe Foundation, but also by our weekly report by the Higher Institute of Health, are very clear and reflect a trend that is clearly not only Italian: in the European context there is a substantial increase in the number of people infected daily. The cause is soon said: a new variant, the Delta variant, has a much more significant ability to infect than the Alfa variant, which was first dominant. The expectation of our technicians and scientists is that the Delta variant, from here to the month of August, will become dominant in all European countries, including of course ours. Inside this painting, the extra weapon we have is definitely vaccination. I was saying that we have reached 67 million doses given, which is an extraordinarily positive figure. We are 66 percent first doses on the vaccine population and 58 percent second doses on the vaccine population. We must continue and insist on this. It is clear that the vaccination campaign is the real weapon of freedom that we have and that it can allow us to avoid those closures that we have known at other times and at other times. There is no doubt, Senator Errani, that the school issue is an absolute priority for the government. I am confident that next week will be the right one for a more organic intervention that will allow us to plan a restart that the whole Government wants it to be in presence and in safety (these two aspects must keep together). We want to work so that our children and our children can return to school in presence, thus overcoming a long season of distance teaching, but also in safety, and we will use all possible tools to achieve this goal. I would like to remind you that 85% of school staff have already had a first dose (an absolutely considerable amount), and the Government is working so that this percentage can still grow very significantly. I thank you for the question and I think that on these issues the whole of Parliament should share, from my point of view, the spirit expressed yesterday in the words of the President of the Republic, whom I share deeply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u68	I call Senator Errani to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u69	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased with your answers and I trust in the work and commitment that the Government has made. I take this opportunity to stress one point: we no longer want to get to lockdowns. To do this we need three conditions: vaccination campaign without ambiguity; tracing, using also the platforms that guarantee tracking, since today we have numbers that allow us such tracking to limit and isolate cases; sequencing on virus variations. This is a commitment on which we must be able to make a qualitative leap even in relation to the problems that Immuni has had, which he has and which we must absolutely overcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u70	Senator Marin has the right to explain the question 0-32754 on the management of psychiatric patients in the light of recent news events, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u71	Mr President, Minister Speranza, I would like to begin my speech by saying that in recent months there have been many tragic events: in Trevignano Romano a young man with drug problems killed his mother and neighbor and then hit a group of cyclists; in Pieve di Soligo, in Provincia di Treviso, a man suffering from serious psychic problems killed a woman, then introduced himself to the barracks of the carabinieri with his hands still covered in blood and a backpack with the kitchen knife inside, explaining that he had moved with the intention of killing someone; in Bolzano a young man killed both his parents, bringing back to suffer from a sleep disorder. Then there is the case of Ardea, where a man already known for his psychiatric problems killed two children and an elderly man, taken by a rage, is said to be. Last but not least, we must remember the case of the 16-year-old boy from Monteveglio, in the province of Bologna, who murdered his peer friend and said that he had heard demons who pushed him to violence. These events brought back the problem never endured in terms of the absence of adequate structures, prepared for the care and support of those suffering from psychic problems and their families. The cornerstone of national mental health legislation is Law No 180 of 13 May 1978, also known as the Basaglia Act, by the name of its promoter, who has arranged the closure of psychiatric hospitals, setting up a reticular socio-assistant system, thus bringing out the inability of the public mental health sector to meet the demand of those suffering from disorders that do not have the economic possibility to turn to private structures and in general the lack of adequate assistance to families. Several associations of family members and people living the experience of mental disorder denounce the inadequacy of the network of mental health services, requiring greater attention and concrete answers in relation to the consequences of living together with people suffering from disorders, especially in relation to personal safety in case of a serious personality disorder of the patient. It therefore wonders whether the Minister in address does not consider it necessary and urgent to undertake appropriate investigations on the way in which mental patients are managed and take urgent steps to implement the territorial services, in order to ensure adequate structures for patients who need long-term treatment, with a view to the right to care, the protection of the sick, support for families, as well as the prevention of crimes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u72	The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u73	Mr President, I thank the interrogators very much for wanting to focus on a subject that I consider to be absolutely central and strategic for the future of our National Health Service, such as mental health. Allow me to express my gratitude to the women and men of the National Health Service who work in mental health departments, because they do extraordinary work every day, often in difficult conditions, just as I wish to express gratitude to the voluntary networks and the third sector that work daily in support of the prevention departments. I would like to remind the House that on 25 and 26 June of this year I promoted the National Conference on Mental Health, which in our country has not been held for twenty years and has been a great opportunity to relaunch a season of new investments. This appointment, opened by two very authoritative messages such as those of the President of the Republic and of the Holy Father, Pope Francis, and which also saw the participation of the Ministers of Labour and Justice, who have very strong competences precisely for the reasons referred to in the question, was in my opinion an important appointment that allows us now to plan a new phase of investment. I would like, among other things, to remind you of how we consider this fundamental issue, which even during the G20, of which Italy, as is known this year, has the Presidency, there will be a side event on mental health. Italy has a great tradition in this field, in terms of attention to the issues of mental health: from the Basaglia law onwards, which was a norm of great civilization that has qualified our country also at international level, there have been many built measures that have allowed us to elaborate also a good practice watched with attention at international level. The question raises an issue that I agree with, namely the disparity in the quality of mental health services offered in the region in different areas of our territory, a major issue on which we must work and we must invest. This is the government's commitment. We will do so with our national resources, for example, as far as I am concerned, with the resources of the health sector under Article 20 of the 1988 law, but I am also working so that important Community resources can be used precisely for this attempt. In conclusion, I want to guarantee, even in the light of the things I have quickly stated, that there is the utmost attention of the Government and that I personally consider the issue of strengthening our mental health departments a priority issue on which to put maximum commitment as Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Marin has the right to intervene in replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u74	Thank you, Minister, but I would like to make it clear that the good practices that you have just mentioned have not been copied by anyone in the world. In almost all countries of the world hospital structures have remained active for the care of patients suffering from psychotic disorders, who have no awareness of the disease and who have poor adherence to the cure. In Italy, however, despite the provisions of Article 32 of the Constitutional Charter, this possibility of treatment is also denied by the law for patients who voluntarily require treatment and hospitalization. Why? Attention to the paradox: although the mentally ill person today is considered no longer dangerous to himself and to others, but only in need of assistance, paradoxically it is still possible to have restrictive measures of personal freedom through forced admission, the TSO is a rigid and complex measure. Over the last few decades, the psychiatric offer has turned into trivial welfare, feeding, among other things, the fear of the reopening of the old manichomas. Minister Hope, forgive me, the old manicomial model with electroshock and icy baths is like the bleeding and leeches of modern cardiosurgery. [[Applause]] Nevertheless, with respect to the demands of the League in particular, no position has been taken on the need for the amendment of Law No 180 to offer dignified and necessary non-care medical care to psychiatric patients and lighten families, from which a silent scream emerges that - I assure you - you will never stop hearing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u75	Senator Alfieri has the right to explain question 3-02752 on relations with Tunisia in relation to recent political events, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u76	Minister, our question arises from the growing concern about the situation in Tunisia, culminated last Sunday in an escalation, after demonstrations that have followed in several cities of the country against the Government and, in particular, the removal of Prime Minister Mechichichi. The reaction was very strong by the President of the Republic Saïed, who suspended the activities of Parliament for thirty days, de facto dismissed the Head of Government and sent the army to the seats of Parliament and Government, invoking Article 80 of the Constitution. Apart from the delicacies that we could make on the perimeter of an article in the Constitution of a foreign State, it is our duty to express some concerns and ask what are the initiatives that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government intend to put in place in European fora and in international fora for what happens a few kilometers from our coasts. I remember, in fact, that Pantelleria is a few kilometers from Tunis and a few kilometers from the Sicilian coasts. The Tunisian situation has been worrying for some time from an economic point of view, with a drop in per capita income over the last ten years of 34%, evidently exacerbated by the Covid crisis. To be involved is, in particular, the tourism sector, which constitutes an important backbone of the Tunisian economic system and there is no need to say how the economic crisis in such a neighbouring country reverberates against Italy, to which Tunisia is linked by commercial and cultural relations of strong integration, especially among the communities of the South Regions. Added to this is a very serious health situation: 90% of intensive therapies are occupied, while only 7% of people are vaccinated (the Covax project should work better in Tunisia). All this leads to a concern, which also intercepts geopolitical issues, for the reactions that the majority parties can have, in particular Al Nahda, an Islamist party supported by Turkey. We are therefore concerned about a situation that must see us as protagonists for the stability of the central Mediterranean, of a country so important for our territory. We therefore ask to understand, in order to avoid having to face new post-Spring situations Arab, reasons why attempts to build democratic paths in the countries of North Africa meet a stop that risks reverberating then also on the foreign policy of our country and the countries of the Mediterranean. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u77	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u78	Mr President, I thank Senator Alfieri. The situation in Tunisia is of great concern. We follow closely the effects of the decisions taken by the President of the Republic of Saïed in the night between 25 and 26 July. In the hours following the President's announcement we immediately gave a strong impetus to start coordination with the main European partners. In the belief that the European Union can and should play a decisive role at this stage, on 26 July I had a telephone conversation with the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Josep Borrell, with whom I remain in constant contact. I stressed the importance of a choral stance by the Union, which was then reflected in the publication of the communiqué on behalf of all 27 Member States on the situation in Tunisia. Yesterday I also discussed the events of Tunisia with the French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian. From all these talks, as well as from the interlocutions at the level of officials, the need to reiterate to the Tunisian institutions a strong call for responsibility and respect for democracy and the rule of law emerges unanimously. The Tunisian Constitution must be fully respected. Parliament should be allowed to carry out its duties legitimately. These are the messages I always sent yesterday to the Tunisian Foreign Minister, Othman Jerandi, in the telephone interview we had. I have also renewed my appeal to my colleague in Tunis for moderation, so that every initiative can be taken to avoid clashes and violence. The Minister for Foreign Affairs assured me that the Constitution will be respected, he added that the President is holding consultations to appoint a new Prime Minister shortly and that the issue of Parliament's resumption will then be dealt with promptly (these are his words). The developments of recent days are taking place at a very complicated time for Tunisia, already gripped by a very serious economic crisis, to which the pandemic emergency has been added. The difficulties encountered by the Tunisian Government at the start of negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, for a new financial aid programme, have in fact intertwined with the worsening epidemiological picture. In conclusion, Mr President, Italy remains determined to ensure its support for Tunisia, as a whole, in the dialogue with the International Monetary Fund, a fundamental step towards the implementation of the necessary economic reforms. We intend to maintain the same commitment to cooperation in the fight against the epidemic. After the five containers of sanitary equipment and donations for the purchase of oxygen generators for Tunisian hospitals, in the next few days Italy will donate to Tunisia a supply of vaccines. We will not miss our support for a people who have always been friends, and we will continue to work with the European Union to promote stability and democracy in Tunisia, a country that we feel is not only close to, but also partakers of a common destiny. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u79	Senator Alfieri has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u80	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the information on the actions taken at European and bilateral level, both from the point of view of support and health support, and in the action aimed at verifying compliance with the conditions guaranteed by the Constitution, so that it can resume parliamentary activity and ensure the democratic path that took place after the Jasmine Revolution, which led to an unparalleled experience in North Africa. I would like to take this opportunity to point out the concern in relation to other theatres, where perhaps the need for Realpolitik and to guarantee stability has gone towards forms of government that do not give guarantees of respect for the most basic human rights. Therefore our concern is that the stability and security of a country be reconciled, for us fundamental for the closeness and relations that we have, with the possibility of accompanying the best democratic experiences, so that they do not stop and do not contribute to creating instability, in an area for us strategic, like that of the Mediterranean. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u81	Senator Aimi has the right to explain the question 3-02758 on the current crisis in Cuba for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u82	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your presence. We are taking action on the facts of Cuba, as everyone in this House is aware of what has happened in recent weeks. They are very serious facts, with a population reduced to exhaustion: there are no basic necessities, they are hungry and it is not enough even the libreta, the card that is used, after very long rows, to have some rice, chicken or meat to support your family. There isn't even electricity anymore, we even got to curfew and there aren't any medicines. Believe me: all this is the result of a regime that has lasted for sixty-two years now, in a wonderful island, a rich earthly paradise, with a fishy sea, that could also guarantee help to others or, in any case, to the whole island. Yet, precisely that communist regime has come to starve its own people, who have come to the streets, as you all know, a few days ago, even at the risk of their own lives. There have been deaths and injuries and some people have even been taken and deported to concentration camps, which also exist in Cuba, and also to work camps. There are families destroyed and disappeared. It is a difficult situation: violence and arbitrary searches have been used. There is a people on their knees and, where there is a people on their knees, Forza Italia, but I think I can say the whole centre-right and I hope the whole House wants to be present, to give solidarity and above all important answers. That is why we have allowed ourselves to ask you some important questions, first of all to know what your position is, Minister, which is obviously that of the Government, and whether you intend to publicly express solidarity with the Cuban people and, with equal strength and equal measure, to respond to the Cuban Government that is starving that people. Above all, we ask you to call the Cuban ambassador to Rome, because we would like to know whether there is availability - and we ask that everything be done - for the release of political prisoners and for a plan of intervention to be implemented in Cuba, accompanied by certain guarantees, such as freedom to demonstrate. Liberation of political prisoners, freedom of demonstration and return of democracy in those lands: this is what we ask for and expect an adequate response to a government that must be up to it even in situations such as these, in which freedom is compromised. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u83	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the honourable Member. The events that took place both Cuba on 11 July saw a wide participation of the population. This was one of the most significant demonstrations since 1994. For decades, the Government has maintained a restrictive and repressive approach to the civil and political rights and fundamental freedoms of its citizens. The protest was triggered mainly by the serious economic and energy crisis, the shortage of basic food and the surge in infection from Covid, which is putting a strain on the Cuban health system, despite the intensification of the vaccination campaign. The demonstrations recorded a victim, dozens of wounded and numerous arrests of people deemed by the Cuban authorities agitators on behalf of external actors. Havana in fact accuses the United States, which maintain a harsh embargo against the country, of fomenting protests to violate the sovereignty of the island and overthrow the regime. The Director-General for Globalisation and Global Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs met with the Cuban Ambassador in Rome on 13 July. On this occasion we expressed all our concern about the management of public order and people arrested. We have also called for adequate protection for Italian citizens who may be involved in demonstrations and for our diplomatic headquarters if circumstances make this necessary. It is essential that the rule of law is fully respected and that is why we supported the call of the High Representative of the European Union, Mr Borrell, to allow the Cuban people to demonstrate freely. Stopped persons must be properly judged, if held responsible for crimes during demonstrations, or immediately released, in the event of a lack of evidence. We work to promote in the country the recognition and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, starting from the free manifestation of thought. We pursue this objective bilaterally as part of the political dialogue mechanism established in 2011 and met several times and in the wider European context, in cooperation with the European External Action Service. The human rights dialogue between the European Union and Cuba is now a well-established instrument and is the best framework in which to continue the dialogue with the Cuban authorities. Our firm political position is accompanied by a constant commitment to the Cuban people. Cuba has been a priority country for our development cooperation for ten years. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have redirected some of the activities to cope with the health emergency and its socio-economic repercussions. On the humanitarian channel we support the activities of the World Food Programme, in particular for the supply of food to more than 2,000 patients hospitalized for Covid in seven hospitals in the country. Italy is at the side of the Cuban people in their quest for a better future in terms of freedom and well-being. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u85	I give the floor to Senator Aimi to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u86	Minister, we must make the voice of Italy and, above all, of the international community loud and strong, and we must help the Cuban people. The assumption, however, is that the regime will stop incarcerating poor people, because it has been more than absolutely peaceful demonstrations, against which the regime has instead unleashed the special forces. Whoever got a chance to see the footage they were able to get knows what level of violence I'm talking about. Forza Italia has fought, Minister, in recent years for battles of freedom: in Cuba, of course, as we are doing at the moment, but also in Nicaragua and Venezuela, as well as in Hong Kong. Where there is communism, unfortunately communist regimes are proving to be a tragic infection, even of politics. Fortunately, however, they did not succeed in removing the dignity of the Cuban people and the many who asked us, even in the squares, during the demonstrations to which we were invited, we said that we would do everything possible, but we heard an anechoic silence around us, very often from the press. In fact, it is very easy to make communists in a free country, but it is more difficult to be free in a communist country. That is why we in Forza Italia, but I think we can say a large part of this House, are on the side of freedom and will continue to be so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u87	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u88	I should like to ask Mr Bini if he can give us any information on the timetable for submitting the maximum amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u89	Mr President, I confirm the time I originally gave this morning, because, from the information we have from the MEF and the Accounting Office, at 7 p.m. the maxi amendment is expected to arrive.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. I hope that 7 p.m. will not become 7:45 p.m. or later. I believe that this is everyone's hope. [[Comments]] At this point, if my fellow Members agree, and since all those who so requested are present, I would like to turn to the speeches on items not on the agenda, so as not to do so at 11 p.m. today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u93	LANNUTTI (Misto-IdV). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 January 2019 in this Senate Chamber, a slanderous and defamatory campaign began, also amplified by colleagues who knew my 30-year history to protect rights and legality against any discrimination of class, race and religion, better known as racial hatred. A media pillage that also involved my family and that I suffered in silence for almost thirty months, for a tweet on the Savi of Zion, promptly removed the next day with related apologies, but went on for months on talk shows, TV, radio and mass media, after the complaint of the President of the Jewish community, who had denounced that post on social media on January 20, 2019. Patronage free of charge by Professor Astolfo Di Amato, whom I thank, because she knew my history, the Public Prosecutor of Rome on February 5, 2020 noted that my statements, or rather the sharing of posts, were covered by the cause of non punishableness, expressed in Article 68 of the Constitution; secondly, without any sub-order and by the superior exception, that office considers the non-survivor of the crime hypothesized and that my conduct instead is more realistically expression of the right of criticism: In the present case, the guiding parameters are respected, with the consequence that the content of what has been published and shared on the posts cannot be considered defamatory. In this regard, it is pointed out that the expressions used are devoid of offensive expressions, not resolving in any way in a personal attack and free of charge. Just in the wake of what has been outlined so far, my conduct is part of the right of criticism. For these arguments and considering that it would not be fundamental and sustainable the prosecution in court and therefore arrive with certainty to a sentence of condemnation, precisely because of the nonsusistence of the objective and subjective elements of the crime assumed, the deputy prosecutor Francesco Corporale and the prosecutor Erminio Amelio asked the judge for preliminary investigations the filing of the procedure, in view of the unfoundedness of the crime. On July 15, the gip Monica Ciancio, rejecting the opposition of the Jewish community, confirmed the filing, with similar reasons. In conclusion, Mr President, the posthumous purpose of the pillage was to prevent me from chairing the Committee of Inquiry into the banks, for the terror that I could have discovered whitewashed tombs: from Bank Etruria to the black hole of MPS, which burned EUR 60 billion. [[Applause]] In Italy among the top places for corruption and among the last for freedom of the press, the two sides of the same medal, while there were over a thousand articles on the accusation of racial hatred and hundreds of talk shows on television, the filing had three poor articles on the media. Mr President, in thanking my fellow Members for their attention, I really do conclude. Slanderers and serial slanderers don't think they're getting away with it! If it were also the last action of my life, I will sue them all to respond to those slanders: journalists, politicians and commentators, slanderers and slanderers who have muddled my honor, my personal dignity and that of my family! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u96	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, I want to bring to the attention of this House and the competent bodies the serious situation regarding the water emergency in the province of Agrigento. This is a serious problem, which has been going on for many years now and which concerns the daily lives of tens of thousands of people, in an area that is chronically lacking in infrastructure and with a fragile economy; all this, aggravated by the emergency Covid-19. In recent months, this situation has worsened further after the financial failure and the subsequent commissioning of the company Girgenti Acque SpA, which was entrusted with the management of the water service. On August 2nd, it will end the management of the commissioner, with the passage to the new society called Azienda acquaia dei Comuni agrigentini (AICA), constituted among the municipalities agrigentini. However, there is absolutely no clarity as to who is technically responsible for running the service, with the very serious risk of an interruption of water supply. In addition to the water issue, there is also the very serious employment problem, with 300 workers from the Girgenti Acque who are at risk of being out of work, with disastrous repercussions on the lives of their families. The prefectial commissioner of the company Girgenti Acque was very clear: if you do not intervene immediately, there will be the substantial impossibility to meet the economic obligations, even minimal, towards the suppliers, thus making impossible the functioning of the system. This is an unsustainable situation. It is unacceptable, in fact, for a certain chronic laxity of the competent bodies to have such consequences on hundreds of workers and on thousands of citizens, who could be without water even in the hottest month of the year, with very serious repercussions not only on daily life, but also on the same health, already heavily undermined by the pandemic, which, moreover, is in strong recovery. With this speech I therefore address a public appeal to the Region of Sicily, so that it can take control of the situation, taking urgent and decisive measures. I also call for these measures to be made more transparent, in order to avoid repetition of the incidents of opacity that have taken place so far. The entire population of Agrigento awaits with great concern the next events. Dozens of cities are involved. It is time for urgent action. As far as I am concerned, I will continue to deal with my territory with strength, without unnecessary polemics, but looking only at the concreteness of the actions and the well-being of our citizenship. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u99	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, in the last three weeks I have had a short tour of prisons. I want to tell this House what happened to me on Friday 23 July during my visit to the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere. This is a tour that I hope to conclude by the end of August, at the end of which I intend to draw up a report and some parliamentary questions to be submitted to Mr Cartabia. In fact, I believe it is necessary for the Commission and Parliament to have a debate on such a delicate and, at the same time, so sharp as that which concerns the prison situation in our country. At the moment, I have about twenty of them in preparation, including a complaint in particular, in which I have noted an extremely serious fact at the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, under the attention of all at the moment. The fact is even more serious because a state of opacity persists, despite the recent visit to that place by the Minister Cartabia and the President of the Council Draghi. I repeat this is a matter of embarrassing gravity: I am welcomed and accompanied by a person who does not show up in sportswear, assuming that he is a bourgeois policeman, who accompanies me first by the director, then acts as a cicerone in the inmates' department, giving instructions to the commissioners to open the courtroom of the tailoring and showing me there the masks against violence against women, an issue that is very dear to us; then continues to give directions to the commissioner to open the cells of the inmates, so as to allow me a closer control. In short, it was a singular and very serious fact, at the moment when, at the end of my inspection visit, I learned that this same person had been registered as my driver. Imagine my great astonishment at learning this news, since I was there without a driver, as my custom. I read the name of the alleged driver, Armando Schiavo. I ask with a loud voice who this is: to my umpteenth request, one of the bystander policemen tells me that it is the manager's partner, a retired ex-cop. Pronto, I have reported what happened with an analytical report to the Department of the penitentiary administration (DAP), which I thank for the diligence of the measure arrived on July 27, 2021 by the Director-General of the staff, in which it turns out that the man, the alleged driver, Armando Schiavo, is authorized to enter the prison for educational purposes and attend exclusively the pastry workshop inside, which operates only on Tuesday. The measure was issued after the DAP's evaluation of acts of the penitentiary and the judiciary. The DAP is currently considering the choice of the executive, Elisabetta Palmieri, who will be replaced until the appointment of the new director. This is a very serious matter, I repeat. In some ways, Minister Cartabia has really disappointed me. According to the people who were there, the person mentioned is a character whose presence comes to mind because of his opacity, but, despite this, he has been put to cover the situation that emerged from my visit; I wanted to talk about it in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u100	Senator Leone, among the interventions at the end of the session, this surprised me for the particularity of the event. Gathering the Government's proposal, I suspend the session until 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4 p.m. and resumed at 7.25 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u101	Since the Government has announced that it will put the question of confidence in an amendment entirely replacing the decree-law on the agenda, the Heads of Groups agreed that the text of the maxi amendment, as soon as it was received, even at a suspended sitting, will be sent immediately to the Budget Committee, which is authorised to convene to express its opinion on the financial coverage profiles. The sitting is suspended and will resume at 10.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 7.26 p.m. and resumed at 10.31 p.m.) I inform you that the Government has submitted an amendment entirely replacing the decree-law on the agenda, which has been forwarded to the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, for financial coverage profiles. Pending the opinion of the 5th Commission, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 22.32 a.m. and resumed at 00.12 a.m. on 30 July.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u102	I inform you that the 5th Permanent Commission has delivered its opinion on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,9000, tabled by the Government, fully replacing the decree-law. I invite the Senator Secretary to read this opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u103	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the amendment of the Government 1,9000, relating to the bill in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, opinion not precluded with the following conditions, formulated in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution: - in Article 3, paragraph 4, letter a), after the words: "fifty percent of the posts" are inserted: "calculated with reference to those that become available each year for the termination of the service of the persons in charge,"; - in Article 3, paragraph 4, letter b), after the words: "even from external members," the following are inserted: "without greater burdens for public finance" and after the words: "not exceeding three years.", the following period is added: "The application of the provision referred to in this paragraph shall not result in supernumerary positions.'; - paragraph 10-b of Article 3 is deleted; - in Article 17-terdecies, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: '2. To the burdens deriving from this article, pairs to euro 443.333 for the year 2022, to euro 1,520,000 for the year 2023 and to euro 1,076.667 for the year 2024, is done by means of corresponding reduction of the fund referred to in article 1, paragraph 200, of the law 23 December 2014, n. 190."
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u104	In accordance with Rule 161, paragraph 3-b, of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency assessed the text of the amendment, in accordance with Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure. It takes note of the conditions laid down by the Commission in respect of the budget of Article 3, paragraph 10-b, and provides for the deletion of Article 17- terdecies by reason of the extraneous nature of the matter. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u107	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I take note of your statement of inadmissibility. There is probably some extraneousness to the matter, but I believe that the Italian Parliament deserves respect. [[Applause]] Therefore, it is right that we take note of your decision, but tomorrow we will present a bill for the immediate extension of those courts. [[Applause.]] [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u108	Senator Caliendo, I would like to make a clarification, because the whole House is aware of the defence that I have always made, since the beginning of this mandate, of the centrality of Parliament. [[Comments.]] Colleagues, maybe I should talk. We all know - and now we pretend not to know - what happened in this regard. Perhaps if this House had the right to understand how certain things are going, even with regard to the whole process of this difficult measure, then perhaps we should have even more respect for the Presidency. [[Repented comments.]] I think it is very disrespectful of you, after defending the centrality of Parliament for a long time (and all the group leaders here know and will certainly have made you aware of everything that was discussed at the Conference of the Leaders this afternoon and how things went). I would therefore ask you to be included in your reactions and respectful of the Presidency. [[Live protests.]] I do not allow it, Senator, because every judgment presupposes knowledge and one cannot speak without knowing. I'm surprised because you don't usually have these expressions. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u111	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving me the floor and Mr Caliendo for what he has just said. I just want to point out a few things, if you will allow me: we are leaving a territory of 6,000 square kilometers without a garrison like the courthouse. This is very serious. There are other situations. Nor can it be said that Europe is asking us to do so, because it is asking for the exact opposite, namely the justice of proximity. There is an infinite number of reasons for keeping those courts open, but I do not want to make a territorial speech, but a general one. Parliament, Mr President, has made an amendment, with great difficulty, unanimously. I emphasize that. [[Applause]] I also say that the exclusion of this amendment has reasons that you have not mentioned today, perhaps it cannot and we must respect that too. There is, however, someone who probably orders - the reasons are inexplicable - and someone who executes, also because the amendment is and has been declared admissible and is not foreign to the matter or at least is not foreign to many others submitted to the measure under consideration. [[Applause]] So today, Mr President, with all the respect that I can have of the Presidency, having also been a representative of the Government, let me say that you are not playing your role equally and do not defend any of the Members present in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u114	RAUTI (FdI). Mr. President, have a good night, everyone. It is clear that, according to logical rigour, the fact that you have declared the amendment inadmissible is indisputable, but, according to the same logical criterion, it is not said that what is indisputable is right. [[Applause]] It is not said that what is indispensable is respectful, nor that it must be passively accepted. We are here, as colleagues have already said, in the face of an amendment which is certainly controversial, dense and important - and it does not happen very often - but which has been voted unanimously, which is a value of democracy. If a majority and opposition make an effort, it means that this makes sense. [[Applause]] So, in method and in substance, I think - because they taught me this when I went to school - that Parliament is sovereign. Mr President, I have respect for you, but here there is a problem of respect for Parliament's prerogatives: no one, not even a Minister of the Republic, nor anyone else, can afford to trample on them. The question then is: what are we working on? [[Applause]] What is there to do at this time of night, between a Thursday and a Friday at the end of July, with a Commission trying to find cover? I'd like to know what this game is and what it's called: is the game of the goose? What is it? Here we were not elected to play and we are not coming at this time to play. I find that what is happening tonight - and I hope it will be understood outside the House - is surreal and humiliates Parliament, its functions and its prerogatives. So, Mr President, I respect you, as a person, and your figure, but I cannot but say, as the Brothers of Italy, that all this is surreal, offensive and I would say humiliating and, when you humiliate a Parliamentary Assembly, you fail to have some basic principles. We don't come here to work empty and be mocked. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u115	Senator Rauti, you referred to a concept of democracy, and there would be no doubt that the democratic principle was not respected right here, in a Senate that is the cradle of democracy. However, it has superimposed two aspects: there is a political will that must always be respected, in any case, within a perimeter of law. There is also a political will that does not enter the perimeter of the law, because the evaluation of extraneousness is without a will, otherwise we could go ahead and proceed in Parliament on the basis of a concerted political will that is beyond the rules; we could do without the Rules of Procedure as well. The Rules of Procedure say that I must remove what is extraneous on the ground. [[Comments]] I am not discussing its goodness; I could also agree with the content of the amendment and I fully understand the reasons for this protest. I understand exactly. I am simply saying that, as Senator Caliendo said earlier, this political will can be expressed in an agreed bill, which can pass with an article in a deliberating forum; with only one article. [[Live protests. Applause]] I invite you to reflect. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u118	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I imagine you will also understand the state of mind of this House, for a very simple reason. It is now a long time that, unfortunately, we have almost the perception - I do not say the certainty, because we still have some hope - of no longer fully exercising our role, in the sense that our prerogatives are regularly trampled on. Mr President, you are right to recall the rules: it is true that democracy is first and foremost made of their respect, but they must apply to everyone. Even in relation to the decree-laws, the rules must always be applied. At some point one cannot choose just one issue, which, among other things, as my colleagues have pointed out, has been voted unanimously, because it is a necessity, and it does not apply the rules clearly in other situations. As you will have heard in my explanation of vote the other day on the Decree-Law simplifications, you do not understand why, for example, in that case - it was not up to you - the rules have not been applied in relation to the strangeness of matter and the unevenness. We all respect the rules, but they must be clear - and they are - and apply to everyone. They cannot be applied unilaterally only in some cases. [[Applause]] This is the fundamental problem we have, you understand? We were the first to agree with a rigid application, but this - I repeat - must apply to everyone. Mr President, there is a problem for Parliament and it is serious: are we still a parliamentary democracy or not? [[Applause]] I've been wondering for days, months. Senator Caliendo has now proposed a law of parliamentary initiative, but we can no longer approve laws of parliamentary initiative! [[Applause]] We are here from morning to night alone and only to convert decrees-laws, without even being able to read them, as happened yesterday. This is the one we're reduced to. Not only that: we can decide, work and also do with you, Mr President, a great deal of work on eligibility and inadmissibility, but then, at some point, the State Accounting and deciding more, completely trampling our prerogatives. [[Applause]] This is no longer possible, Mr President, and it is not a disrespect for you, but it is out of respect for you. We can no longer tolerate - I say this here this evening, as we have said before - that parliamentary democracy should continue to be trampled on in this way. It's no longer possible. There is a very serious problem in this country. I believe that this was the drop that overflowed the vase, because, despite the repeated and unanimous will not only of the Commissions, but of an Assembly, we proceed in a different way. And I believe that, Mr President, this House will no longer be able to tolerate this for a long time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u119	Senator Di Girolamo asked to speak, but Senator Castaldi has already spoken for her Group. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment fully incorporating the amending proposals approved by the Commissions and fully replacing the single article of draft law No 2272, of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 80 of 9 June 2021, into the text as proposed by the Presidency, and also accepting the conditions laid down in the opinion of the Budget Commission. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u121	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment submitted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u124	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the text of my explanation of vote in favour to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u127	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, we would have liked to have made a brief statement, but unfortunately the situation we are facing suggests that a little more should be spread, because it is really uncommon. We have worked hard in the Commission and, as an opposition, we have fully cooperated. I thank the speakers, the Senators Caliendo and Valente, and the Undersecretary Bini. We have brought in a number of amendments and several have been adopted. We should have continued this work in this House, because the one in the Commission ended yesterday at 8 p.m. Twenty-eight hours have passed, we could have worked from this morning until now with the amendments, examined them here and further improved the text; instead, there was the choice to put trust. Then, the whole of the amendments adopted in the Commission saw two proposals fail, first one concerning university, for one reason, and then now, for another, an amendment adopted unanimously concerning the courts of Abruzzo. This is a non-secondary measure within the framework of a draft law which contains urgent measures for the efficiency of public administration and for the efficiency of justice. We would also have liked to have had a real debate in this House to further improve a measure in which we have seen several positive aspects, and for this reason we have worked together to improve it, as well as shortcomings. The colleagues of Brothers of Italy who spoke, Senators Iannone, Zaffini and Balboni, brought several important contributions concerning two issues in particular: that of justice and that of health. It is curious that, in the context of measures following the pandemic, health care has a very marginal part, even if it has a large shortage of staff, not only for the pandemic, but also for the large number of pensions and a deficiency that already existed before; moreover, we are in a particular situation, so there would have been a need to really exploit this sector. As for the judiciary, there was only this attention to the office of the trial, with a series of problems that Senator Balboni has pointed out that they will emerge; an amendment by Mr Balboni, always because of the importance of justice in the context of recovery, resilience and even in the face of what Europe asks of us, proposed the establishment of sections specializing in the disposal of the great backwardness that exists in justice. The amendment was not adopted. Nothing has been done about the honorary judiciary, which laudably carries on a very important part of the work of justice, and indeed, despite Minister Cartabia's commitment to bring a proposal before 30 June on this important area, it has been necessary to reduce itself to an amendment, tabled at the last moment, which still extends the current situation, without resolving the problem, nor to comply with the demands of the European Union, which calls for this category finally to have a decent and just place and the appropriate safeguards. Public administration is very important in our country (and not only by us, of course) and we must value this very important sector, which cannot be seen only as a cost to be cut, but as a great resource on which an important part of our country's budget is actually spent and therefore must be valued; it must be made more efficient and not mortified in the merits, so we will always be attentive to all recruitment procedures, both those by competition (which should be the main and widely prevalent), and the others provided for in the decree-law under consideration. The merit is also fundamental to motivate the many very good and commendable civil servants of all levels, who do a very important job. We must ensure that this great apparatus is even more at the service of the citizens, that it is there to solve the problems, as so many civil servants and managers do, and that it never appears as the one that instead tries to curb and block private initiatives. It really takes a synergy of this sector with the entire country and with the entire production apparatus of the country. In the light of what I said, we would have liked to have cast at least one abstention vote, if there had been a way of expressing ourselves, but unfortunately confidence has been placed. If confidence had not been placed, we would probably have gained time and perhaps we would have already voted, after examining the amendments on the subject, as was done in the Commissions meeting. I believe that all senators have the right to intervene on extremely important matters. The time was all there, but obviously we wanted to delay the examination of this measure because of the well-known difficulty of the majority, to agree, but then we saw that, even when we agree not only within the majority, but between majority and opposition, something outside the Chamber and the Commissions intervenes. It is worrying to continue to simply convert decree-laws into law with a series of limits, which means that if you come out of what the Government has already included, nothing can be done. Consequently, the legislative function which the Constitution undoubtedly assigns to Parliament is shifted elsewhere, with a lack of transparency, so there is never anyone really taking responsibility for the individual parts of very broad measures, because they are all collected under trustworthy votes, after having been written, modified and cashed elsewhere. That is why we will of course vote against confidence, while expressing our appreciation for many parts of this measure, which are aimed at enhancing public administration. We trust that there will be everyone, and especially Parliament, given that there is clearly now this dichotomy between the Commission and Parliament, such a control as to ensure maximum transparency in all competitive proceedings and in all types of recruitment. The state must in no way pass on the message that one enters into the public administration for reasons other than merit, and we will always be there for that. We are voting against trust, but when it comes to working for the interests of Italians, we are always there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u130	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, given the circumstances, my speech will be very brief. We are at a particular moment in the history of our country and Europe, we need profound reforms of public administration and justice, we know that we are in a full duty to exploit the resources that the PNRR makes available to our country, in the face of the certainty of interventions that are able to renew and strengthen our public administration and our service of justice. The measure before us goes in this direction, it has gone through the process of conversion in Parliament, with an important and very difficult work in all respects, which took place in the Commission in a collaborative atmosphere between the various levels of institutions that have found themselves interacting and also between majority and opposition. I believe that balanced improvements have been made and that difficult choices have also had to be made which have to be taken care of. I believe that it is important to have included elements of acceleration and speed in recruitment procedures and, as far as the justice sector is concerned, there is the big bet of the establishment of the office for the process with so many recruitments. We must not only take on so much, but also take on the right figures and incorporate them into the system in the most appropriate way. Among the improvements that have been made in Parliament, there has been concern for the needs of the local authorities in Parliament, giving them a balanced response, in my opinion, through amendments tabled by all the groups. It seems to me that on a day when, at national level, there is an important step forward, even within the majority, on a crucial reform such as that of justice, the Senate approves a measure that goes in the right direction. That is why the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure when we examine it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u133	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I wanted to begin my explanation of vote by saying that the work of the two Commissions on the decree-law in our examination was very careful, demonstrating that, when Parliament is allowed to work well, important results are produced. The decree-law, in fact, that not only was born with just goals, but that we share in full, because, to the truth, it deals with a matter that we have long posed, has certainly been improved. Not only does it give rise to the possibility of innovating the ways and forms of recruitment, but it notes that the plans of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan can really be realized, if you make the right investment on staff. Therefore, to introduce qualified and specialized staff - as is done with the decree on our examination - by strengthening the public administration, is the right way and also the best way to make sure that the projects not only remain ideas, but are realized. Most of these recruitments are fixed-term, but of course we hope that the introduction into the public administration and territorial authorities of young and overqualified forces will in itself be a major improvement in their activity. For this reason, Mr President, in declaring my Group's vote in favour of this measure, I cannot fail to point out the regret that this valuable work and the choices that the Commissions had made freely, which in my view went in the right direction, especially in the field of justice, were once again called into question. For all these reasons, I confirm our vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u136	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of two days of hard and thorough work that has occupied us and wearyed us, so my explanation of vote will be slim. I am interested here, Madam President, once again to highlight a kind of invasion of the ground by government bodies and the ministerial bureaucracy against Parliament. This isn't the first time. I think I was the first to raise this problem in one of the measures adopted in the past, but I believe that we have reached the culmination of this interference today. You have exercised your prerogative, and nobody has anything to say about that, but we knew that on that famous amendment extending only for two years some minor courts in Abruzzo there was a firm opposition from the Ministry of Justice, an opposition worthy of better cause, such as to keep firm a reform on justice that, reading the newspapers this morning, seems to have been watered down. Therefore, the firmness that the Ministry of Justice has held on this amendment could well have been explained in keeping certain principles of the reform of justice firm and firm, but this is a speech that we should deal with sooner or later. Parliament has already demonstrated to the House of Deputies, on the occasion of the approval of the simplification decree, by minority the Government, and to the Senate in the Commission, with the amendment on Abruzzo, that Parliament is not prepared to be dictated by the government, nor by bureaucrats [[Applause]] , because in this country the legislative power belongs only to Parliament and to no one else, neither to the government, nor to the ministerial bureaucrats. The measure we are examining is a welcome measure, which is necessary in order to streamline and speed up the procedures for the implementation of projects and therefore the expenditure of money coming from Europe. We focus on meritocracy and, thanks to the acumen and intuition of the Minister for Public Administration, we focus on more streamlined and faster recruitment procedures, which until now had harnessed public administrations. We hope that this breath of novelty can also be useful for a cultural leap within the public administration. As far as justice is concerned, we have expressed some concerns. Welcome to the recruitment of these 16,500 units, for only three years. What we asked the Minister of Justice at the hearing is what will happen in three years' time, when these people have completed their work and will have to return largely home. Perhaps it would have been better to hire or create excerpted sections, as has been done in previous years, to reset back, hoping that with the new procedural rules, civil and criminal, the time of justice can be reduced. Rather than nothing, however, is better and then we will see if these assumptions, which will carry out the office of the trial, can constitute a useful intuition, capable of alleviating and shortening the times of justice. It is therefore certainly an important measure, to which the Senate has made an essential contribution, and we therefore hope that its approval will lead to a rapid examination also in the Chamber of Deputies. Here, too, there is again the point that the measures are only dealt with in one branch of Parliament. Are we preparing for monocameralism? Perhaps we should create a constituent Assembly, since neither the bicamerals nor the reforms made by the various constitutional majorities have been successful. Perhaps we should be convinced that the only way to modernise our country is to create a constituent assembly. Therefore, with these considerations, I am voting in favour of this measure by the Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u139	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, let me just thank Mr Bini and all the officials of the Commission and the Ministry for all the work they have done. I give up some of the minutes I have and ask that I put to the record the writing of my speech with which I declare the Lega Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u140	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u143	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, I will try to sum up the speech that I have prepared and then ask for the full text to be delivered, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. I also thank all those who have worked on this measure: the rapporteurs, the Government, the members of the Commissions and in particular the Offices, which have assisted us. In the Commission's work - we have already mentioned this in the speeches under discussion - the central role of DAC in public anti-corruption policies has been restored. Therefore, I will no longer dwell on this issue. I would like to remind you that we have introduced amendments that enhance the recruitment portal, which now becomes a single portal for recruitment and mobility in the public administration. This serves to give greater transparency by providing for staff recruitment notices to be published as documents in open format and organised in a database that can be searched in each field, so that all recruitment procedures - especially those for the mobility of public office staff - become more transparent. In fact, until now, as admitted by Minister Brunetta, mobility in public administration is a opaque procedure. The mobility of the public employee is a means to enhance it. I would also like to mention an amendment which we consider to be of fundamental importance, shared by several political forces, which provides for the recruitment of 184 new staff units in favour of the National Labour Inspectorate. This is an important step in addition to what is already planned with the recruitment provided for by the PNRR and which is useful to strengthen the protection and safety of workers in a season when there are three deaths at work every day. The measure is also useful in combating undeclared and irregular work, a scourge that must be fought with determination and concrete actions, also in order to ensure compliance with market rules and, therefore, the development of healthy entrepreneurship. In general, with the measures approved and the resources allocated we want a renewed public administration, able to listen to the demands of citizens and businesses and able to give answers and services in an effective and efficient way. This must be based on some important axes, the first of which is digital transformation. A digitised and unbureaucratic public administration is able to interact more quickly with people and businesses. We know that graduates have grown in the public administration, but in the last ten years we see that the dominance of graduates concerns lawyers: 30% of public employees are in fact graduates in law, 17% in economy and 16% in political science and sociology. Only a minority took courses to increase digital skills or project management. It is necessary to support scientific professionalism which, through their work, can guide political decisions. Computer skills, including at the managerial level, are essential not to fail in digital transformation yet. As Movimento 5 Stars we will always fight for an open, fair and meritorious recruitment and progression system, which still finds too many obstacles in politics and administrations today. We want a public administration mirrored, that is truly capable of putting the citizen and his needs at the centre. For these reasons, again this time, we renew our trust in the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u144	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 80 of 9 June 2021 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will be able to vote exclusively from his place, declaring his/her vote. So I beg you to take your seats. I remember that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle. I ask the quaestors senators to assess the situation and whether there are any assemblies. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Modena is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Modena. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, is appealing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 80 of 9 June 2021 on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 178 Senators voting 177 Majority 89 Favorables 168 Contrars 9 Absent 0]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B) All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 80 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u145	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-353.ana.u146	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, August 3, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 1.32 a.m. on 30 July.
