ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u4	On 20 July the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Labour and Social Policy: "Conversion to the law of Decree-Law No 103 of 20 July 2021 on urgent measures for the protection of water routes of cultural interest and for the protection of Venice, as well as urgent provisions for the protection of the work" (2329).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u7	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I asked to speak because, as you know, on 17 July last, the European Commission sent a letter to the Italian Government, pursuant to Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in which it sent Italy a warning as to the shameful treatment it is giving to the honorary magistrates. According to the European Commission and the now peaceful case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and also of the Italian Court of Justice, the honorary magistrates are deprived of the basic rights of every worker in matters of social security, assistance and maternity, and also of a decent economic treatment corresponding to the high function they carry out. Therefore, Madam President, I would ask you, pursuant to Article 15 of Law No 234 of 24 December 2012, to urge Minister Cartabia to report urgently to Parliament and to this House on the situation and conditions of the honorary magistrates and on how he intends to resolve the serious issues raised by the European Commission. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u8	Senator Balboni, the Presidency takes note of your request. As you know, it is always necessary for the work of this House to bring forward to the Presidency the subject on which we are asked to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2320, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Modena, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we come to this House with a text whose amendments could not be examined and have therefore been withdrawn. This, however, has been somewhat part of an interparliamentary work which has been carried out between the examination of the Support Decree and that of support-a. Moreover, a series of agendas have been examined both by those who had prepared them, and by the Government and we can therefore describe the measure by imagining a summary relevant to the contents of the same. It is first necessary to point out that the bill of conversion provides for the repeal of Decree-Law No 89 of 22 June 2021 and Decree-Law No 99 of 30 June 2021, with the salvation of the effects. As regards the content of the decree-law, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies during the first reading, Title I, which includes Articles 1 to 11g, provides support for enterprises, the economy and the reduction of fixed costs. There are, in particular, a number of provisions. Article 1 (1) and (4) recognises and regulates a "additional' grant compared to those provided for in the previous measures in favour of all persons having the VAT registration active on the date of entry into force of the measure under consideration (26 May 2021). Paragraphs 5 to 15 recognise a non-refundable contribution, alternative to that referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3, in favour of persons holding VAT numbers who are engaged in business, art or profession or produce agricultural income, with the exception of certain persons (paragraphs 5 and 6). Paragraphs 16 to 27 provide for a different non-refundable contribution to persons holding VAT numbers who are engaged in business, art or profession or who produce agricultural income, with the exception of certain entities referred to in paragraphs 16 and 17. Paragraph 28 concerns the obligation for undertakings to submit a self-declaration demonstrating compliance with certain conditions laid down in the European Commission's Communication of 19 March 2020 on a temporary framework for State aid measures to support the economy in the current crisis of the Covid-19. Article 1-a repeals paragraph 9 of Article 6a of Decree-Law No 137 of 2020 (decree-restoration law), while maintaining the detaxation of transfers in favour of the self-employed persons listed therein, as they are included in the provisions of Article 10-a of the same Decree-restoration law. Article 1-b deals with the provision of grants for a total amount of EUR 60 million for 2021, which is the maximum amount of expenditure to companies operating in the areas of wedding, entertainment, the organisation of parties and ceremonies and the so-called Horeca sector. Article 1-c increases by EUR 60 million for 2021 the Extraordinary Fund for the support of third sector entities. Article 1-d establishes, in the MEF estimates, a fund with a budget of EUR 10 million for 2021 for the recognition of the higher costs incurred by public institutions of assistance and charity in 2020 and 2021, also due to the Covid emergency. The extraordinary contribution shall be recognised as compensatory for each IPAB on the basis of the costs incurred for the sanitization of premises, the adoption of personal protective equipment for guests and operators and the structural adjustment of premises. Article 1-e adjusts the time-limits for payment of the instalments due in 2020-2021 for certain institutions for the easier definition of loads entrusted to the collecting agent. Article 1-f contains provisions to address the exceptional price increases for certain construction materials in the first half of 2021. Article 2, in order to facilitate the continuity of economic activities which must be closed for at least one hundred days in the period between 1 January 2021 and the date of conversion, establishes in the first paragraph in the estimates of the Ministry of Economic Development the fund for support to closed economic activities, with a budget of 140 million euros for the year 2021. During the first reading examination, three additional paragraphs were added to the Chamber of Deputies, which increased by 50 million for 2021 the fund for losses resulting from the cancellation, postponement and downsizing of fairs and congresses following the emergency from Covid-19. Article 3 increases, to paragraph 1, of 100 million euros for 2021 the fund established by decree-law supports for the granting of contributions in favour of exhibitors activities of company selling goods or services to the public, carried out in the municipalities located within ski resorts. Article 3-b authorizes the expenditure of 35 million for 2021 in order to increase the tourist attraction of the country in relation to the performance of the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games Milan and Cortina 2026. Article 4 extends to 31 July the specific tax credit for the rental of properties for non-housing use and farm rent, provided for tourist accommodation companies, travel companies and tour operators who have a decrease in turnover or fees. Paragraph 2-a, introduced during the examination at the Chamber of Deputies, extends the credit, under certain conditions, also to companies exhibiting retail activities, with revenues exceeding 15 million euros in the second tax period prior to that of the date of entry into force of the decree-law, as well as to the subjects who started the activity from 1 January 2019. Article 4-b exempts from the IMU due in 2021 residential properties, owned by natural persons and leased, for which a validation of eviction for morosity was issued by 28 February 2020, the execution of which is suspended until 30 June 2021. The same exemption shall apply where, for 2021, validation has been issued after 28 February 2020 and execution is suspended until 30 September 2021 or until 31 December 2021. It is expected to pay a refreshment to the municipalities for the minor revenues deriving from the facility. Article 5-a gives the Cassa per i servizi energi e ambienti the total amount of €1,200 million also for the purpose of the reduction of the charges in bill deriving from the adjustments of the tariffs in the electric sector, fixed by the Authority of regulation for energy, networks and environment and for the third quarter of the year 2021. Article 6 provides for the establishment, in the forecast State of the Ministry of the Interior, of a fund with a budget of 600 million euros for the year 2021, aimed at the granting by the municipalities of a reduction of the Tari, or the Tari equivalent, in favour of the economic categories affected by compulsory closures, or restrictions. Article 7 contains a series of measures aimed at supporting the tourism sector, economic and commercial activities in cities of art, including the refinancing of EUR 160 million for the year 2021 of the fund to support travel agencies, tour operators, guides, tourist guides, accommodation facilities and bus transport companies discovered in urban or suburban areas. It also includes services offered by travel agencies and tour operators, among those whose payment is covered by tax credit holidays. Article 7- bis allows the use of the credit granted for the payment of the tourist services used on the national territory also for the payment of the tourist packages. Article 8 changes the condition of the tax credit on the stock balances in the sectors marked by seasonality and obsolescence of the products. It also refinances EUR 120 million for 2021, the fund set up in the MEF Forecast State to support economic categories particularly affected by the Covid-19 emergency, in particular businesses operating commercial and catering activities in historic centres and companies operating in the wedding and private events sector. Article 9 postpones from 30 April to 31 August 2021 the end of the period of suspension of the time-limits for the payment of sums, resulting from payment records and enforcement notices provided for by law, as well as the end of the suspension of the provisioning obligations arising from foreclosures with third parties, carried out by the collection agent and the persons entrusted with the establishment and collection of local authorities' fees. The rule also provides that, until 31 August 2021, the compensation between the tax credit and the debt entered in the role shall not apply when the tax refunds are paid. Paragraph 1-a extends to 31 December 2021 the tax credit recognized for the purchase of new instrumental goods destined for productive structures in the Municipalities of the Lazio, Umbria, Marche and Abruzzo regions affected by the seismic events since 24 August 2016. The successive paragraphs modify the discipline of the activities that are carried out by the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology and paragraph 1-f establishes that the buildings located in the Municipalities affected by seismic events, occurred in August 2017 in Ischia, are exempt from the application of the municipal tax and from the levy for the indivisible services from the defaulting installment after 21 August 2017 until the definitive reconstruction or usability of the buildings. Paragraph 3 of this provision differs from 1 January 2022 the effectiveness of the provisions establishing the so-called plastic tax, i.e. the consumption tax of manufactured goods with single use. We also have a deadline for contesting the tax sanctions applicable to those who have not made declarations to the urban building register for land that is located in the earthquake sector and the House has also extended the possibility of increasing the quantities of non-dangerous waste. The 9 paragraph-a extends from 30 June to 31 July the time limit for the approval of the tariffs and regulations applying to the Tari to be paid in 2021. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Modena, you've finished your time. If you want, you can deliver the text. MODENA, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to thank you and give you the full report so that it can be annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u11	The minority rapporteur, Senator De Carlo, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator De Carlo. Senator De Carlo, would you kindly take a seat in the Commission's desks in such a way that we can follow you better at the center of the hemicycle?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like to thank you for letting me sit among the benches of the minority, where there is less dispersion and less difficulty in speaking, since there is a continuous journey there and it is almost impossible for me to speak. Therefore, I am staying comfortably in our eagle nest and I am sure you will appreciate both the fact that I am not making controversy about this, but also that you are intervening in this House today because I understand that now the whole hemicycle would like the minority to be reduced to something of a pleonastic.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u13	Senator De Carlo, I'll get you in on this. You will certainly welcome the fact that I ask you to sit in the Commission's benches exclusively for the convenience of the House to follow your report. You prefer to stay there, but it is certainly not discrimination that we are doing in this House. I gave you an indication of the proper conduct of a minority rapporteur's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you, but I repeat my decision to stay here for the benefit of this House, which can certainly listen to me in a much easier and more accurate way than I can do from the centre, where I would be disturbed by a continuous journey, as is happening now. Mr President, I wanted to speak and remain silent. I would have liked not to say a single word, so much for you the thought, the conviction, the motivations and any contribution that the opposition can make to you are useless. The facts prove it. I remember as a spectator, as a mayor, when in the previous legislature a large part of the opposition actually complained rightly about the obsessive and compulsive appeal to the vote of confidence. That same minority today is a majority and is no longer ashamed either because it has almost become established that any provision that you consider urgent must necessarily eliminate bicameralism, since your Government will save the nation. We've seen it on all measures. Now what we voted against, that is, the elimination of the Senate, has become a practice: there is only one Chamber, where there is a compression of the possibility of discussion and then the provision arrives armored in the other Chamber, where the minority rapporteur has an absolutely pleonastic role; he makes an exercise of rhetoric useless from the point of view of the impact on the provision, but useful to remind one thing to everyone in here. I see the heads falling down because many have been part of the opposition even in this legislature and they said the same things as I do. Today, however, this well-established practice, which degrades or wishes to degrade the role of oppositions and render them absolutely useless, is also forced to be successful. Instead, we believe that even the fact that we exist is for you a source of great embarrassment, because we are here to remind you that democracy is something else, we are few (we intervene from these benches precisely for this) to remind you that democracy has other written rules, while these are practices that you have introduced to justify your delays atatavici in issuing the measures that then have to "run" in the Chamber, pain of their decadence. I believe that the shame that you should feel today would be enough for the minority rapporteur to say that we are discussing a measure of 40 billion with absurd times, with a chance to affect zero, while - to give a trivial example - on the other hand we are rightly discussing a measure such as the Zan bill for the time being (justly, moreover) which is no less important, because everything that is discussed here and that is proposed by democratically elected people is important, but perhaps not a priority compared to what companies, many operators, VAT matches, who would like the priorities of this Parliament to be their support. On this provision no discussion, while on the draft law Zan infinite discussion. I use the term "infinite" not by chance, because you will tend to take it beyond, to bypass the August holidays, because so you will be able to make some electoral campaign and proselytes among those you think are now your electorate of reference, that in reality more and more you are becoming aware of how much you have to get out of the ideological and symbolic themes in order to enter into the practical, concrete and affluence to the rights of the person in a general sense, not just a part of the rights of a part of the people. The rights are inalienable, but they belong to everyone; there are no people who have more rights than others, there are no people who are ghettized more than others. The person is one and these people we should deal with as with this decree. In fact, the decree that the House approved last Wednesday, July 14, which today arrives at the Armored Senate, as I have already explained, is a decree that is essentially the continuity of the Governments that preceded the Government Dragons. The methodology is the same: the contribution to rain, the scarcity of vision, the lack of an exit strategy from this pandemic. Already the fact that after a year and a half we are still talking about emergency demonstrates the failure of a year and a half of emergency policies, because an emergency has a limited and contingent time, the vision and the future should have a decidedly different time. In fact, already saying that it is an emergency decree implicitly abdicate to your role and manifest your manifest inability to solve the problems of this nation. We tell you this as a patriotic opposition. Here we have never come without a proposal, we have always added to the protest the proposal and that is why outside, in the real world, this according to the polls is the first party of the nation, while in here it is reduced to a wedge without the possibility of affecting the measures. It is not because we, as a part of the House in the last parliamentary term, have reaped the bellyaches of all, because in this parliamentary term we have clearly stated what our thinking was and about this concrete thought has created consensus. We have not gathered from the No Vax to the Pro Vax, from those who were against the TAV to those who were in favor of the TAV, but we have always been consistent, since we were at 2%, 3%, 4%, on our line and around this we have created consensus. Today, unfortunately, however, one in five Italians does not even have the possibility to influence a 40 billion measure. I do not go into the matter because my colleagues in the House, who have had a little more time, have done a great deal of work. I am thinking of Mr Trancassini, but anyone who has alternated in the Budget Committee has tried to improve this measure. The fact remains that the real improvement for this nation of ours is going to vote, to change the structure of the nation, to change this government. If we vote in the major Italian cities there is no reason why we cannot vote for this Parliament as well. You will find that probably that consensus that in here, in a Bulgarian way, you think you exercise, outside, among people does not exist. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u15	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u16	Mr President, after Mr De Carlo's brilliant, clear and comprehensive minority report, I would first of all like to say that I support it. I subscribe not so much and not only as a colleague and friend of the mayor and Senator De Carlo, but as a citizen who, in the face of so many objective truths, can only be condescending. Mr President, I think I have dealt with the subject that Mr De Carlo has highlighted with some harshness over the past few days. I'm referring to monocameralism. At this moment I also address to you, in your role as Vice President, as well as to President Casellati and all the Presidents of the Commission, the appeal I made to the President of Alfonso and to President Pesco in the relevant Commissions in which I took part yesterday. I turn to the bodies representing the democratic institutions of the Republic, which have the duty - I stress - to protect the Constitution. We are faced with an unacceptable violation of the Italian Constitution. We are faced with a de facto monocameralism, forgetting, moreover, that there is a referendum that, representing the Italians, rejected the reform of the last legislature. Therefore, regardless of the beliefs of each one, we are obliged, as representatives of the people, to respect the Constitution. However, this does not happen because Parliament is now traveling on two tracks: that of the urgent decree - but we know very well that, if it is urgent, it cannot be ordinary, at least in terms of terminology and vocabulary - and that of the vote of confidence. Since this is a repeated and well-established violation of the Constitution, I would ask that the institutional positions representing Parliament should address everything - and I am asking for it formally - to the President of the Republic. It is unacceptable that we should proceed in violation of the Constitution. It is unacceptable that measures that invest billions are actually approved by a single House, which in this case see the Senate completely delegitimized and forced to a mere vote, without being able to touch ball, as they say, without being able to change anything. It is unacceptable according to common sense, but above all illegal because it is against the Italian Constitution. Mr President, there is another aspect that is always preliminary, but of substance, which I want to address, and that is what concerns the implementing decrees. We should explain to the Italians that they're listening to a few numbers. I quote a few: three out of 32, one out of 41, five out of 149. What are these numbers, dear colleagues? These are the implementing decrees (three) made out of the 32 provided for by Decree-Law Supports 1. One out of 41 is to indicate an implementing decree made out of the 41 provided for by the decree support- bis; five out of 149 are the implementing decrees made on all the legislation Draghi. What does that mean for those who listen to us? It means that it is a bit like spending money, but instead of turning it into concrete acts - because the implementing decree serves to turn the norm into something concrete - they are put and isolated in the refrigerator. He is a bit like a person who wants to drive from Trento, my city, to Rome and fills up with gasoline or diesel; then, instead of putting fuel in the tank, he puts it in the cans and keeps it in the trunk of the car, which therefore will never arrive in Rome. So the billions that we're investing in and with which we're indebted are largely in the refrigerator, in the trunk of the car, they don't end up in the economy, they don't end up in the pockets of businesses, artisans and traders. Here are the numbers, which speak clearly: I remember five decrees implementing the 149 needed to implement the regulations wanted by the Dragons Government, which the whole House is supporting. Why then are there colleagues - and I address them to our colleagues in the centre-right who, together with us, were fighting against the implementing decrees - still persevere, on the one hand, in the decree of urgency and, on the other hand, in the provision in the implementing decrees rules to abundantiam which then do not turn, as from the numbers I have read, into concrete acts? You see, therefore, Mr President, there is ample reason to say why Brothers of Italy is, not critical, but more, about this consolidated way of lawmaking. Then I come to the point because, as Mr De Carlo said, we are certainly a force of fierce opposition, but equally proudly and proudly of the proposal. We have always come here every day with concrete proposals to help you improve the fate of the country. On the merits, then, I would like to understand why, one and a half years after the beginning of the pandemic (eight months), we continue to work on the emergency? Why have we been talking about support and refreshment for eighteen months and in fact not only do we not translate it into concrete acts, as I said before, but we do not yet have the slightest substance of active constructive policies? We block layoffs, but where are the labor policies? Brothers of Italy has proposed a premium scheme for companies that do not fire and hire: why don't you answer us? Why does the government not try to switch from blocking redundancies to premium schemes for those who increase employment, for those entrepreneurs who hold on, keep their employees and maybe hire new ones? Here are the concrete proposals to go beyond the emergency, to build a path and a future. As for the tax, it is little more than 20 billion money that - between the decree supports and the decree support- bis - goes to the enterprises. The study center of the CGIA of Mestre has shown it objectively: with one hand give the money and with the other you have taken it back and you are taking it back with the balances and payments of taxes. But, then, if one really wanted to give gas and breath to the economy, wouldn't it have been smarter to accept another proposal from Brothers of Italy, that is to predict the fiscal year united, unifying the years 2020 and 2021 with declarations and payments in 2022? We would thus have had a single tax year, which would have helped businesses, craftsmen, citizens, that is those people you have kept closed, despite so much opposition, also on our part, and who had to continue to pay contributions, taxes, rents, fixed costs. These are the proposals that we have made and which we would expect. In conclusion, Mr President, why is there no attention to professionals in fact? We see that for weeks, for months, the law on fair compensation had been laid down; now it seemed one step away, but to this day in the House it does not appear in the vote. We have the bill on the sickness and accident of the professionals. I also address Vice Minister Castelli here, and I ask that we help those professionals who do not want welfare, but want to be supported when they are unfortunately injured and ill. The appeal, President, is that the Constitution be respected, that the President of the Republic put an end to the delegitimization of the institutions and democratic rules and that all political forces present in Parliament go from assistantism and emergency to constructive and operational phases in the interest of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to ease the climate somewhat, I would say, as we did in the Commission this morning, that we are committed to considering the possibility of vaccination. [[Applause]] I'm saying this because I'm out of voluntary isolation. Leaving ample freedom, however, we consider the opportunity. Beyond that, the assessment that we give as Forza Italia Group to the decree-law supports -bis is basically positive. But there are some critical issues that we need to highlight. The first: we must not get used to the country, the economy and the productive system to the policy of support, to the policy of aid. If this is understandable in fact in an emerging phase, such as what it was and, in part, it is still, it cannot be in a normal situation. I have the feeling that the country is getting too used to the economic subsidies that come and that they will not be able to continue to arrive. [[Applause]] The Governor of the Banca d'Italia Visco also recalled this at the final conclusions. It was clear that we cannot go on living on subsidies. I know that there is the attention of the Government, of its President, of the forces of the majority and there will also be the stimulus of the opposition to make sure that we can get out of this situation quickly. It will mean that we will have overcome the health emergency and will be out of the economic emergency, normal consequence of the first. I hope and hope that this will be the last intervention we make in terms of support, because that means that the crisis has partly been overcome. There are many aspects of the decree-law supports -bis that we like. I remember, among all, also the agreement and intelligent mediation that was found on social shock absorbers, the unblocking of layoffs for those economic sectors, luck that there are, that are going well, manufacturing and construction. We do not want the 5 Star Movimento colleagues, but we would like, for example, that substantial funds for citizenship income should be converted to funds to reduce taxes on labour, to create employment opportunities, rather than to promote social policies that we think are not positive. [[Applause]] Let us release taxes at work if we want to restart; let us release taxes at work if we want to move from a sustained policy to a policy that lives and sustains itself with its own legs. Attention, it is a decree-law that has a value in economic and financial terms of a pre-Covid budget law. It has the economic weight of a budget law. I also remember that it is a debt. When I have the opportunity to speak I say to be careful because they are all maneuvers in debt and the debts, sooner or later, you have to bring them home and pay them back. Either the country grows, and then it has the ability and the strength to repay the debt, or at present this situation can create a very dangerous inflationary system. To do this, to get out of this situation that is similar to that of a dog that bites its tail, it needs good debts and good reforms. This is the task of the majority in Parliament: to quickly approve the reforms in order to bring the PNRR funds to the ground as soon as possible. Madam President, I always say this and I repeat this once again: such a system leads our economy to ensure that those who are well are better and those who are sick are worse. Attention, because from the point of view of social tension this is a bomb that we have under us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u19	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is another very important measure before the House, which has been fired by Members of the House, but unfortunately we have had little time to examine it here in the Senate. Of course, we are in a moment of emergency, there are very precise rules dictated by the regulations and the political situation, so often the important measures are examined only by one branch of Parliament; it would be appropriate to revise this position, so that we too can have a little more weight. I have also read the speeches made by my colleagues in the House, who are very important, especially at the time of their approval. I report some data of my colleague Massimo Bitonci of the League, who has done a thorough examination and that it would be important to listen also in order to be able to understand how they worked. I quote excerpts from his speech: 'A work, I must say, carried out in synergy, a work of the Commission which led to the integration and modification of the measures, extending its scope to many situations in crisis that had been excluded from the contributions and concrete aids. This was the subject which the Commission has dealt with, with joint amendments, amendments shared by all political movements and parties. This is an important fact, Massimo Bitonci says, says the rapporteur of the measure, which gives us confidence in how things have gone. A decree that places 44 billion total in the real world: aid to enterprises, to work, to young people, to health, to the territory. Twice a budget law that, if added to the "Suggestions," exceeds 70 billion measures to help the productive system, families, associations, volunteering, to overcome the serious economic crisis that hit our nation during the pandemic. At the end of 2019 the Italian economy already had clear signs of stagnation; then, from the end of February, the spread of the Covid-19 epidemic and the consequent containment measures decided by the previous government have resulted in a profound impact on the economy, altering the choices and possibilities of production, investment, consumption and functioning of the labour market. Moreover, the rapid spread of the epidemic at global level has drastically reduced international trade. How much more urgent, then, than to support our companies with direct support for companies? [[Applause]] 14 billion direct disbursements with an important novelty: a corrective is introduced that takes into account not only the decrease of turnover, but also the losses and fixed operating costs for companies with increased turnover from us (i.e. from the League) of more than 15 million. From the League a real support Italy: we have extended to 15 September the balance and down payment of taxes of June and July, a breath of oxygen and liquidity for small and medium-sized enterprises, artisans, traders, professionals. In addition to this, we have obtained a further extension of the period of suspension of the collection agent's activity: 163 million folders for 18 million Italians and a further postponement of the instalment of the payment of the scrap-b and balance and cancellation within the current year. It is not enough, however, as Bitonci claims, to think of structural measures, destructive of litigation, a new fiscal peace that cancels definitively what is no longer payable, I do not speak of the smart turn that must be removed, but of companies and the League will continue to repeat it. We have thought of the forgotten by the "restorers," the tourism, which produces 13% of national GDP, hotels, restaurants, bars, the wedding industry, events, with 70 million, national fairs, which are still available today for mass vaccination, the third sector, rest homes, spa areas, rehabilitation centers, tourist guides and travel agencies, the cruise industry, tourist buses, art cities, smaller ski lifts, publishing, refreshment for activities with partial closures. We have not forgotten the earthquake-stricken compatriots and earthquake-stricken areas, by extending the tax credit for investment companies and for those who have the courage and the strength to do business in those seriously affected areas, as well as for our farmers' contributions, which are heavily affected, as well as by the pandemic, also by frosts, floods and natural disasters. For the sport we have allocated 112 million euros in lost funds for the operators of the sector, for the management and maintenance of the swimming pools and for the infrastructural interventions on sports facilities for the Olympics of Milan-Cortina 2026. They have also not forgotten health and social care, palliative care, the Fund for cancer and paediatric institutions and the inclusion and funding of equal children's schools. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). There are still a lot of things. I have read your speech, because it cannot just be said that you did not come here and we did not have time to examine it. Let us then try to reverse: let us look at what colleagues in the House have done, where all the political groups have worked together, amending, building and helping. I am delighted with this work and proud that a colleague of the House has done so for us as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u21	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of 2020, support was introduced to deal with the economic emergency caused by the pandemic by Covid-19, which in economic terms exceeded EUR 100 billion, a figure corresponding to approximately 7% of national GDP. This last decree-law, which we are about to convert into law, puts on the plate an additional 45 billion euros, distributed capillaryly to all the economic categories that have suffered heavy repercussions in the epidemiological emergency. This measure corresponds to a real budget law, an impressive package of measures necessary and necessary to rethink the negative and disastrous events of the pandemic. In view of the many changes and innovations that have been introduced during the examination of the provision in the House, I would just like to focus on a few of its aspects. The Decree-Law introduces a very important package of economic measures in support of the tourism sector and the economic and commercial activities related to it, which in the last year have been severely damaged and need to get back on track. Italy is in fact a country that lives on tourism, known all over the world for its immense natural and cultural beauties. Our country is, without any doubt, one of the most attractive European and world tourist destinations for its climatic, naturalistic, sociocultural, archaeological, thermal and food and wine conditions. However, we must allow the operators of the sector to have solid foundations on which to support themselves and to be able to best deal with this complex tourist season. This is a very important package, which introduces, for example, EUR 150 million for 2021, for the fund to support travel agencies, tour operators, tour guides and tour guides and, again, an allowance of EUR 1,600 for the different categories of workers in the sector and other interventions to support hotel and accommodation facilities. [[Applause]] Among these measures of significant interest is certainly the one linked to the tourist buses, for which an appropriation of almost €10 million has been introduced, to be allocated as a grant to the entire sector. Another point on which I would like to focus the attention of the debate is the measures designed for trade on public areas, the so-called walking trade, one of the main pillars of the Italian distribution, able to give work to more than 190,000 companies and to more than 217,000 employees, with a total turnover of 11.1 billion euros. This sector is also experiencing a very serious crisis and already 6,000 small companies and walking activities have ceased their activity from June 2019 to June 2020. Article 56- bis gives the municipalities the power to conclude the administrative procedure for renewing concessions of public areas, in accordance with the decree of the Minister of Economic Development of 25 November 2020, within the period of ninety days following the declaration of cessation of the state of epidemiological emergency. The provision in fact determines the possibility of extending the procedure for renewing concessions on public areas and sets itself the objective of restoring certainty to a sector, which we have already seen in recent years, for the uncertainties caused by the Bolkestein Directive, which has practically destroyed it and has put in trouble many families and workers. Another important goal concerns the refinancing of EUR 120 million, for 2021, of the fund in support of some activities particularly affected by the emergency, namely those of events and catering, theme parks and aquariums, geological parks and zoos, weddings and commercial activities such as catering, which operate within the small inland centres. Article 1-b pays attention to the Horeca chain, i.e. to companies operating in the areas of wedding, entertainment, the organisation of parties, ceremonies, the hotel, restaurant and catering sectors, with the provision of grants, for a total amount of 60 million euros. This chain represents more than 60,000 workers and 3,800 companies, most of which are family-run, spread throughout the country, with micro-family businesses patrimonially weak and financially inconsistent. The measures of refreshment to the enterprises have not managed to contain the considerable damages suffered from the section of the distribution, that has seen the turnover decrease of well 7 billion euros, from 17 billion in 2019 to 10 billion euros of 2020, with a collapse of approximately 37,6 percent. We must be aware that, despite the measures taken, further efforts are needed to re-establish companies and operators in the sector, who have explicitly asked Parliament for help, in order to combat the economic crisis that has been hitting them hard for over a year. Food and beverage distribution has not been closed. In fact, with the previous grant decrees, operators were excluded from the issue of the Ateco Code, which kept them open, but their sector had no opportunity to operate, because catering and all the reception sectors were practically closed. [[Applause]] Article 2 of the Decree-Law, paragraphs 4-a and 4-c, increases by 50 million euros, for the year 2021, the fund intended for refreshment and losses resulting from the cancellation or postponement of fairs and congresses throughout the national area. It is a problem that has hit in a strong way also the logistics, the transport and the set-up, that they have operated within this field. I hope that this is the last decree-law necessary to provide support and subsidies to the many economic groups hit hard by the epidemiological emergency. The signs of recovery are mainly due to the excellent performance of the vaccination campaign, but it is on this that the country does not have to give up and still has to improve. The best measure for the recovery of the economy and for the return to complete normality at the moment is only the way of vaccination, which will be the only solution that will take us out of the situation that we are currently experiencing. [[Applause]] These measures, together with the vaccination campaign, have allowed us to take the whole country and our entire peninsula to the white area (with the consequent opening of bars, restaurants and museums) and to buy back small spaces of freedom that seemed normal until a few years ago, but that are now very difficult to reach. It is important to continue along this path, but also to remain absolutely careful and be very careful, because in this situation it is subtly labile the area we are moving on; all the population must be extremely careful at this time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the 6th Commission (Finanze) there was an interesting cross-cutting debate between the Commissioners on the procedural system of these months (I would also say of these years). There is a breakdown between Parliament and the Government in the way we proceed to the approval of the decree-laws, which are in exorbitant numbers compared to the legislation; this custom has now emerged, which I would say has almost been constitutionalized. But that this government of broad understanding, born from demands of difficult solution and in the national interest, present all the decree-laws, of great importance and very invasive of the lives of the citizens, in a post-conflict situation (because this is the situation), placing the confidence or asking for the withdrawal of the amendments seems an exaggerated and not conformed practice, a practice that does not render service to democracy. Basically, the amendments that are tabled in the second chamber, which are all too often the Senate (beyond the custom of rotating incardination between the two chambers), pose these problems: there are regulatory amendments, which can therefore be examined and can be positive for solving problems, and there are expenditure amendments that suffer the situation of difficulty, which the MEF expresses with a negative opinion. There are aggravating factors in this situation, because - I say this in a constructive tone, it is clear, albeit firmly - there are sectors that have not yet left and that are encountering difficulties and there are others that are struggling to leave. There are only situations in which the support, referred to in the decree-law that we will approve today or tomorrow, did not have recognition for a number of reasons, right or wrong (forgets, evaluations). There are sectors that have suffered the most. I take an example that is not trivial: the halls and dance orchestras have closed first and will open for last, but they are sectors that group tens of thousands of people between direct work and indirect work. As I said in my previous speech on one of the many economic measures, I thought that, after the issue of the Ateco codes, we could arrive (it is a provocation, but not so much, because it is a matter of making a decision) to the point that the support went to all VAT matches, without demand, (it has happened in so many states) eliminated so public and private bureaucracy. I would like to take an example from the amendments I have tabled and which will obviously not be discussed, because trust will be placed. There are activities that opened in 2020, lucky for them or bad luck, immediately after the first lockdown, because they had the opening in anticipation and had made investments and contracts. What is the reference turnover of these companies, since in 2019 they did not exist? I have tabled an amendment to provide support for them too on the basis of criteria laid down by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, calculating the average of the sector. Then there is the question of evictions, on which the associations of the owners have spoken, who are not thieves, but of the people who have saved in so many ways, working hard. In fact, to put aside the resources to buy accommodation, the average Italian works hard, unless he wins at Totocalcio. The evictions are a punishment for the owners. The rule has been introduced allowing VAT not to be paid on invoices entered into bankruptcies since 19 May, but it is likely that it would have been more appropriate to extend it to all outstanding bankruptcies. As for the superbonus, it could include hotels. The cashback, which was a nice intuition, was suspended in favor of more social shock absorbers. Finally, there are two very important amendments which I have already tabled on other occasions - and on which I would like to dwell in the short time I have left - on the subject of salvage and over-expensiveness. These are technical issues, but they are of interest to the Italians, as the rivers are full of remnants from the floods and must be salvaged. [[Applause]] However, ten institutions must not be allowed to do so. The issue of over-excessors in buildings is also something we need to discuss in this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruzzone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an important measure, full of content and above all - as we have almost never seen - with concreteness, with the anticipation of desired actions and requests. At this time this is the typical example that highlights the difference between the previous yellow-red government and the current one, which is evident thanks to the contributions resulting from the entry into the majority of Lega and Forza Italia. What is written today in this provision was not present in the previous initiatives. I would like to focus on a subject that I began to address on 23 July 2019, so already before the Covid, with a question that, to date, has not yet been answered, aimed at clarifying the discordant interpretations, still existing, between public offices and commercial studies on the application of VAT on the sale of game by the breeders. Today, in Article 18- bis of the measure under consideration, it is stated that live animals supplied for hunting are also included among animals intended for human consumption, with the result that VAT falls to 10%. I provide some data to make it clear that this is not a marginal issue. In our country, which in Europe is the one with the highest concentration of wildlife, there are about 3 million animals bred and made available to about 2,500 wildlife and agro-faunistico-venatory companies and farms, all private. All this contributes 0.8% to national GDP, as I said yesterday when I spoke on the subject of'venophobia'. In our country there are 244 territorial hunting areas, 75 alpine areas, 492 alpine reserves and 20 hunting districts. Well done those who have started the development of the food supply chain of game meat, respecting food safety and the environment, and well done the Lombardy Region to sign a special protocol of understanding on this topic. These are fine meats, as evidenced by the strong national interest of the starred restaurants. This is an area of agri-food which deserves a rational intervention by the legislator. We must also facilitate the development of the consumption of these meats by amending existing but far exceeded rules. We say: better the meat of our wildlife than the insects that give us Europe. [[Applause]] In the temporaryity provided for in the decree for the reduction of VAT to 10% for the year 2021 is understood the recognition of the fact that the farmed wildlife is destined for food. I therefore call on all my colleagues, and especially the Government, to make it absolutely clear that the rate to be applied to farmed game is 10%, as my question was asked two years ago. Today on this subject - I address my fellow Members of the Brothers of Italy, who I think they understand are willing to vote against - we have an important result; we bring home a concrete and immediate result that helps our companies in this sector, but above all we open an important door. In view of the consensus that you of Brothers of Italy have given on the territory, starting with the Lombardy Region, I would hope that the theme of agro-food for game meat would find a positive, and not a negative, response in this House. Thank you for your attention, but above all I would like to thank everyone who wants to take account of the things I have just said, because it is starting a new path and I believe that it is a healthy path, although clearly opposed to some food proposals coming from Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u27	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measures contained in the decree-law in question which particularly concern health - which are the aspects on which I would like to focus in this brief speech - are objectively very interesting, because in some way they go to heal those which, from a certain point of view, have been the greatest pressures on hospital facilities precisely in conjunction with Covid, which has created a situation of carelessness for non-Covid patients. All of us have followed, over the last two years, the difficulties that have encountered patients suffering from any disease that was not defined as characterizing the pandemic in place, both from the point of view of diagnosis, therefore of the screenings that could be done, both from the concrete point of view of visits, therefore of monitoring, and from the point of view of what we can call rehabilitation. Well, this decree-law intervenes positively by financing the activity of advanced research laboratories, even those capable of conducting very sophisticated genetic investigations, and by increasing what we could call the file cutter - we know how long it is for patients to be able to access outpatient visits and specialist visits - through a whole series of measures and also through the recruitment and remuneration of staff who were in service and who are now retired. This should remove the obstacle that patients sometimes face when asking for a visit. What interests us very much, and that the decree-law in question deals with with a seriousness not indifferent, is the follow-up of patients who have fallen ill with Covid during this period and who will be able to undergo, for two years and without cost to them, a constant and continuous control. However, it is also addressed to those patients who during this period had to suffer, psychologically speaking, all the discomfort derived from lockdown, therefore from the limitation of interpersonal relationships and from the anxiety that may have arisen, including the anxiety caused by the loss of professional opportunities. Now we are all reading, with great sharing, not only from the emotional point of view, but also from the search for solutions, news of people who will face the risk of dismissal. The idea of a psychological support to be offered to these people is a positive reading key. What are the measures that seem really interesting to us in this decree-law? Those concerning research, not only for the strengthening of accredited structures, such as ENEA itself, which is also recognised as extending functions by improving funding, but also for two other measures which are particularly interesting. I am referring to the tax credit and the reduction of VAT costs for the purchase of basic materials. From this point of view, research will also have a more forward-looking view and therefore the possibility of reaching the specific subject of research highlighted in these paragraphs. I am referring to the search for new drugs, including the possibility of new vaccines. Attention, when we think about new drugs we must not only think about cancer drugs; they are new drugs so-called orphan drugs, which concern the rare disease; there are obviously new vaccines, but there is also another great strand of drugs, which we have discovered to have been a little 'depowered over time: we need new antibiotics. We need a search that goes in this direction as well, alongside the one that concerns monoclonal antibodies. Overall this is a positive decree-law, which meets the real needs, addressing them rationally and is therefore a concrete sign of hope for the near future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u29	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u30	Mr President, Member of the Government, this measure, which, if not approved, would expire no less than in three days, has a vital importance for the whole economy of our country, as has been said well before. However, on the subject on which I would like to focus, agriculture, this measure is worth EUR 1 billion of direct aid. These are measures to which we, as Lega-Salvini Premier, have contributed through the amendments of our colleagues in the House, with our proposals and also with agendas that we hope will be adopted. It is a true support, not only in words, for the weakest link in the Italian food chain: the farmer, the farmer, the fisherman, extraordinary figures who, even in this year and a half of pandemics, have never stopped working, supporting and providing food and giving dignity to the role of farmers and guardians of the land, fishermen and custodians of the sea. We must recognize this to all our producers. [[Applause]] Let us see together some of the measures that we have approved: we are awarding this measure to Ismea EUR 80 million, in order to strengthen a very important instrument, that of guarantees for farmers and fisheries. To this measure is added another important amendment approved, which provides for a guarantee from the Central Guarantee Fund, which can be combined with others. Many of our entrepreneurs couldn't finish their investments because they couldn't pool a guarantee with a mortgage. Instead it will now be possible; we have given the same possibility to tourist and hotel companies. We have actually helped and we will still help - and this is a very important measure - women's entrepreneurship in agriculture: we have extended the same measure for the generational replacement to women; therefore, women in agriculture, of any age, will be able to benefit from a 35% non-refundable contribution on investment, of course with the appropriate practice, and 60% of coverage at ten years at zero. There are also concrete measures on the livestock sector, which is suffering so much. The future of generations who are working for the tensions of the national and international market on livestock food is under discussion. We have increased the Development Fund and support for the supply chains by as much as EUR 5 million, to be granted during 2021, with direct aid to cattle farmers. Additional important support comes from the VAT compensation applicable to supplies of live animals (cattles and pigs). We raised it to 9.5%: EUR 28 million is earmarked for this important measure. However - let us remind this House - the whole chain of milk, meat, eggs and fruit and vegetables is suffering and needs concrete aid. I turn to the Ministers: the implementing decrees must be issued immediately; otherwise we always stand firm and the resources remain in the Ministries. It was established - this is very important - a fund for beet-sacchariferous support with a budget of 25 million euros for Italian producers particularly damaged by the pandemic and by reductions in export volumes. The contribution will be made on the basis of the cultivated areas. This is crucial because we are going to help the primary producer. The 70% advance payment system for CAP premiums is established and finally institutionalised in the event of crisis situations caused by adverse weather conditions, serious plant health conditions or crises in certain sectors. We have also added to this provision market disruptions by changing the so-called temporary framework. The advance payment shall be made by compensating the relevant interest by means of a direct grant. Then there is what I think is the most important measure of the measure. I am referring to allowances for agricultural workers who have worked at least 50 working days for 2020, which is one-off of EUR 800. The number of agricultural workers who will be able to benefit from these resources is 500 000. An allowance of EUR 950 was also provided for self-employed fishermen who do not have a pension, which is a few thousand. With regard to the issue of breweries, which is often taken up in the various amendments and measures, but then naturally by the Budget Commission and the Government there are denials, in addition to the exemption of the payment of social security and welfare contributions, as well as for wine producers, we have finally recognised a non-refundable contribution of EUR 0.23 per litre of beer stock on the basis of the summary declaration. We then implemented the National Solidarity Fund of EUR 105 million for compensation in order to compensate farmers damaged by frost and frost in April 2021. Another very important forecast is the extension of the time of application of this measure by adding the months of May and June and adding the hailstorms that, as you have seen in recent times, have devastated much of our country. The final appropriation will be as much as EUR 160 million. President. - There is one subject which I particularly care about and which few are talking about today. I am referring to the damage that is causing drought in our country. We have tabled an agenda to propose a solution on this very important issue. It has been approved - I thank the Budget Commission - this morning. Summer 2021 was the worst of the last decade for the repetition of 517 extreme events (nubiphages, floods, air trumpets, hailstorms, heat waves and especially droughts). This situation has led to a loss period of EUR 14 billion over the last decade. In order to address this important problem, we have proposed access to the National Solidarity Fund for damaged companies. I also remember that there is a very important measure in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan which provides for the possibility of drawing on resources to contain water. We contain only 11 percent of rainwater or coming from the glaciers of the mountains. Here, too, we must give our consortia, our associations - the ANBI has repeatedly called for this - a way of implementing measures capable of carrying out these projects with a longer time frame than is currently planned, i.e. 23 September. To help Italian agriculture, there are still many measures to be implemented, something has been done and we are here to approve this measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u31	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u32	Mr President, this is the morning of the holidays, we are all excited about the goal achieved: 44 billion new debt to be added to the other 150 that we have already matured, we are all happy to talk about the present, but I have not heard a word, except from Senator Ferro and some others, about the future. It is clear that I too am satisfied with this change of pace that today leads to the approval of the Senate too of a provision that if it had been dealt with with with this philosophy since May last year we probably would have had much less problems. [[Applause]] That is a fact, because I do not think that we can ignore it and say that we are all the same. The characterizing element was what we of Forza Italia have repeatedly pointed out as a trivial issue: it was enough to understand what were the needs of the companies, which are the only structure that creates work, perspective and future and creates gross domestic product, and to give them a sensitive support, a sensitive coverage not only when the issue was ripening, but to put them in a position to save themselves and restructure and be ready tomorrow when "mom State" will no longer be there to pump money into the coffers, on the territory and also to the local authorities. This is the element on which we must reason. Forza Italia has immediately set itself the objective of giving a vision and I am sorry for colleagues, but ours is perhaps the only party that has presented a package of vision proposals for the next ten years, starting from tax reform and labour reform, which are the only elements characterising a perspective for a serious state, which looks forward. We have tried to give a vision to the system, we have often talked about those who look at us from outside to see that we can go back to investing in our country and the first thing they clashed with is the question of justice. Today there is a significant debate and I am pleased that Minister Cartabia, whom we will soon hear on the issues of the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, has said that this is the reform to be carried out and that we will continue to do so. I hope that the Government will put its trust in that text, which is not exactly what we wanted, but at least it is certainly a step forward in restoring certain situations, since in recent years, certainly not thanks to our votes, since the beginning of this legislature, with that ignominy of the so-called corrupt sweep in this country, the system of justice has been disintegrated. And probably this has happened since none of you were in the middle of it, because it would only be enough to have tried it. [[Applause]] I have a small shopping list of all respect, too. Forza Italia brought 60 million for the wedding sector, 70 million for the swimming pool sector, 30 million for the tourist bus sector, which is another issue. I have to say that this Parliament has been good, because it has discovered, after thirty years, that there was a significant sector such as that of tourist buses. Again, 100 million for spas, port cities, South, automotive and more. I would like to make a brief comment on the issue of tourism. The coast is going well, the interior is dying. There are still businesses that do -40/-50 compared to 2019. [[Applause]] We need to think about perspective. Did we realize that we are the only country in the world that makes companies and employees pay 160 percent of their wages? This is an important perspective: we are one of the few countries that aims to work destroying it with a total taxation of 160 percent in the hands of companies. We will no longer be able to afford this in the future. We will talk about tax reform in some time, but first of all we talk about labour reform and we never bring home a disgrace - like that of justice - like the decree-law dignity, which has disintegrated the work, canceled the fixed time, removed the flexibility, killed the vouchers and brought to our knees the Italian business system, which we have discovered that 70 percent is seasonal: yay! [[Applause]] When we said that, three and a half years ago, you were all teasing us. Well, that's the perspective now. Are we happy with the decree-law supports bis? Of course we do, but we do not want citizens' incomes, we want welfare, we do not want any of this. We want a free and serious market that puts companies at the centre. This is the perspective of Forza Italia; we hope you understand it too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u33	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u34	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under discussion today for the conversion of Decree-Law No 73 of 2021, introducing urgent measures related to the emergency from Covid-19, for businesses, jobs, young people, health and territorial services, is a complex of heterogeneous measures aimed at intervening in many of those areas that need support. Obviously, the limited time available to me would prevent me from dealing with the text in its entirety, so I will just go into some articles of interest to me, such as Article 1-f, which provides for measures to deal with the increase in the cost of raw materials. This is a problem which we know very well in this House - it has been dealt with several times - but which they also know well in the country. Some may mistakenly think that this is a problem limited to a specific sector, that of construction, but in reality that is not the case. If, in fact, we think that natural gas has almost tripled its price in recent months, it is clear that it becomes a problem that affects everyone's daily life. It is no coincidence that gas bills have increased by 15%, but I should say only 15%, because thanks to this Government's intervention it has been possible to limit the burden on households to a percentage ten times lower than that which was the percentage of revaluation of the price of the raw material. Since I come from a mountain municipality - home of national park, one of those villages that in my opinion could become an added value for the nation - other articles of interest to me are the 3, paragraph 1, and 7 -ter. Article 3, paragraph 1, specifically, provides for 100 million more for the municipalities in favour of ski resorts. We know that this sector suffered a great deal because of Covid. The closure, in fact, has made it substantially impossible to work even for a day, so the blow they have suffered is very hard, and that is a type of tourism that, instead, could give much to our realities, first of all because seasonally the period, since most tourists come to our country in summer - this already alone would be a very important element - but often represents the difference between life and death for those mountain realities. Therefore, providing for intervention in favour of ski resorts was certainly useful and appropriate. Article 7b provides for the recovery, conversion and exploitation of state property for military use located within national parks. Well, national parks are a very important reality for our country, which has 10% of its territory made of protected areas that have the competence to intervene on 20% of the national territory. Therefore, everything that serves to enhance these areas clearly can only have a positive impact on the rest of the country. I therefore propose a reflection. As I said before, our villages could become an added value for the country. However, these must be made suitable not only for tourism that is often bite and runaway, daily, but also for those who should or should want to decide to make their lives compatible with a lifestyle that is completely different from what would be possible in our cities. We must therefore build infrastructures, we must make sure that services are improved, we must ensure that anyone who decides to go to live in these villages in a sedentary way - especially a family - can have what is necessary to grow and prosper. It's just a cue, as I said before. It is good that measures have already been envisaged, but, in my opinion, the foresight that a government should have, should lead it to foresee a further important investment in those realities, especially in view of the fact that the objective of zero land consumption, envisaged by the European Union for 2050, could make that built-up acquire value also with a view to safeguarding and protecting our territory, precisely because it is very often areas already built up, which need only infrastructure interventions. A further possibility for those realities to achieve economic self-sufficiency is, of course, to strengthen and enhance small local productions, which are often affected at European level, but which are, on the contrary, one of our added values. I shall close with the reference to Article 9, which provides for measures in favour of earthquake victims. There are many interventions in favour of these realities. I myself come from one of the municipalities that gave the name to the seismic swarm in 2016 (Amatrice-Norcia-Visso). It was not possible to include amendments to this article because, as some Members have already said, the expiry of the decree made it fundamentally impossible. There is already a lot in the decree, so it would have been unforgivable for it to expire, but an intervention, in my opinion, was necessary and that is why I presented an agenda. Basically the productive activities of the earthquake areas do not receive a contribution for VAT: the private individuals yes, the productive activities not because, being able to recover the VAT they would have a double advantage, if they were recognized also the VAT. VAT, however, while being recoverable from this activity, would obviously be recovered in a later period. If we consider that these are productive activities located in an area devastated by the earthquake and further penalized by the Covid, it is clear that that burden, which in some cases could exceed hundreds of thousands of euros, is not sustainable for some. In a first draft of the agenda I even asked for exemption from the payment of VAT. The difficulties we would have had to get to that led me to remodulate it and ask for a reduction. I hope the government can accept this request, because for those activities it is often the only way to rebuild. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I leave aside the political considerations about a decree that our branch of Parliament, the Senate, examines in just two days. On the other hand, I will focus on the most specific considerations on the measure. The decree for our examination is dedicated to the themes of income and labour support. To the latter are dedicated also several norms of ordinamental type collected in a single title. Most of the €43 billion planned are committed to supporting economic activities and, at the same time, to supporting the restart of those who drive these companies or work there. In essence, this is still an urgent measure, but tending to emerge from an emergency, looking at the restart of the country. The value of this decree is precisely in the enormous injection of money that the Government has provided to the Italian system as a whole, giving oxygen to an economy that had partly entered the intensive care and that now can come out standing. The result of total or partial lockdowns has led to a slowdown in the economy, which has had a domino effect on a whole range of supply chains and interlinked sectors. In the decree, therefore, there is also the theme of the partial blocking of dismissals. The release involved companies whose activities were restricted by lockdowns, but also involved many other companies. Now, without going into the merits of the different situations of corporate crisis, one thing must also be said by my political side. You cannot fire without the conditions, without prior notice and without having activated the social shock absorbers available. [[Applause]] We will come out of this emergency and we must understand that we need new provisions that do not leave the workers at home, but put them back in preparation for new jobs. We need rules that reward productivity, encourage innovation and thus make all our economic activities more competitive. In addition, a system of social shock absorbers covering both employees and self-employed workers is essential. However, a more streamlined, more digital, more efficient, and more colloquiative public administration with citizens and businesses is also needed. Mr Brunetta's excellent work in this respect must be supported. However, we believe that the provisions of this decree should be based not on the creation of a new regulatory stratification, but on the adoption of a system of legislation, which is also resilient for any further emergency situations. On the concrete side: citizenship income is a measure we are waiting for reform, to devote resources in part to a new system of social shock absorbers and in part to the continuing training of workers [[Applause]] , a priority issue for us. The fact that citizenship income has only partially worked as a measure to combat poverty shows that an emergency income has also served, which is also refinanced in this decree. Therefore, public resources for the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL) and Employment Centres (CPI) need to be reviewed in order to effectively target them for active policies, through private placement companies and agencies, which engage with companies on a daily basis and on a timely basis. To the traditional macro-items of public spending, which are public income of 174 billion, to pensions of 236 billion, the item that reached in 2020 the 144 billion INPS charges for social interventions, which are already charged to general taxation. Since we are dealing with a real economic maneuver with this decree, then we also need to reason in terms of budgetary planning. The call is therefore to leave the ideological flags which, as we have seen, correspond only to a temporary consensus. It is necessary to reason in terms of long-term reprogramming by planning those labour market reforms that make it more dynamic and no longer plastered, as the colleagues of Forza Italia who spoke before me also said. This has been demonstrated by the large economies, such as the American economy, which is an example for all, where work is shared by companies. At the same time preparing a system of shock absorbers that is prepared, but that is activated only in case of necessity. This pandemic and the many regulatory interventions that have accompanied it have taught us that being a citizen and having an identity to be a citizen comes from having a real and fairly paid job. And the possibility of changing it, improving one's professional preparation, is realized with a real structuring of a continuous training for everyone, but just all the workers. In short, we share from the 42 articles of Title IV of the measure, from the good existing rules and, making the best use of the resources of the PNRR, we carry out a lasting and shared reform on the issues of work and social security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u37	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u38	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the decree-law support bis, a measure that is worth 40 billion, an important measure and much awaited by companies and workers. We are discussing this today and tomorrow we will have confidence in it. Of course, I would have liked the parliamentary debate in recent weeks to focus on the current situation, the well-being or the problems of activities and the maintenance of jobs. Instead here in the Senate, in recent weeks, the work has been oriented on a bill that concerns important issues such as civil rights, but perhaps not as compelling as the need to guarantee everyone, I repeat to everyone, the first and fundamental right, the work. The measure consists of 77 articles with several paragraphs and this gives a picture of how important the work of the Government and the House in this case was to be able to cover all sectors and sectors affected by the pandemic. If we make a sum of all the resources that the State has allocated in this last year and a half, we realize that, between rest and support, the amounts paid out do not far away from the amount provided for in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. We know well that reliefs and support, like the postponement of tax deadlines, are not enough to fill the losses suffered by closures and therefore by the blocking of productive activities; they are exclusively palliative, waiting for the restart to bring this wheel, which has stopped, to turn better to return to normality or to a pseudo normality. In this measure I welcome the measures contained in the agenda that the Senate Commissions 5a and 6a had approved in the first decree-law support, focused mainly on ensuring liquidity, taking into account the actual decrease in turnover during the pandemic period, therefore from April 2020 to March 2021. Thanks to the League, the turnover threshold for companies was raised from 10 million to 15 million and the State guarantee on loans was provided. The National Fund for the Mountain has been extended by an additional 100 million, penalized for the lack of winter season. Thanks to Minister Garavaglia, who brought the worried and alarmed voice of the sector, 800 million support were allocated in the two decree-laws. Thanks to the League, an additional 30 million were added to the ski resorts to be used for the safety and technological innovation of slopes and plants. Positive is also the fund for support for closed economic activities, with an initial budget of 100 million, increased by an additional 40 million; positive is also the change relative to the closing times necessary to access the funds that, from the four months initially planned, is reduced to 100 days. The loss-making contribution of 77 million for swimming pools and gyms is also positive, just to mention a few measures. Certainly the loss of the winter season has actually put an end to various activities. This morning in the newspapers is given relevance to the news of the sale of a hundred hotels in Trentino; in fact, some activities were already in difficulty before the pandemic, while others, despite the difficulties, raised their hands and lowered the shutters, a strong and important signal, but above all impacting for small communities where tourism is the main economic sector. Losing an economic activity cannot be relegated to a mere economic loss, because in fact it harms the balance of a community: I am referring to the preservation of traditions and culture and, since I come from a linguistic minority, also to the loss of it. All this because of a lack of liquidity that leads even the most convinced to yield in front of the inevitable. In these days the tourist season has started and, if on the part of our compatriots there is a great desire to reach the tourist resorts, the hoteliers, the restaurateurs and the exhibitors are faced with another difficulty: the lack of staff. Tourism is a key sector for the country's economy: it is worth 13% of GDP, employing 7.1 percent of the people in employment. The sector complains that it is critical to find labour force: between 150,000 and 200,000 workers are missing, i.e. a quarter of the labour force required. One of the reasons is the existence of citizenship income which, as it was thought and structured, presents several critical issues and, even if in the pandemic moment it was definitely a useful tool for the livelihood of citizens, has in fact demonstrated all the criticalities regarding active policies of integration into the world of work. The president of the National Agency for Active Policies at Work (ANPAL), Domenico Parisi, reports that at 31 October 2020, out of a total of 1,369,000 people required to sign the Employment Pact, only 352,000 people had at least one employment relationship, equal to 25.7% of the total; still on 31 October, however, the active employment contracts were only 192,000, since only 15.4% of the beneficiaries signed an indefinite contract, while 4.1 percent had an apprenticeship contract and the remaining 65 percent a term contract. This means that the system of matching labour supply and demand is inadequate. The task of the legislator in this case is to put in place the necessary changes, so that the critical issues that have emerged can be solved, without throwing partisan judgments on workers or entrepreneurs. In conclusion, Mr President, for the revival of our economy it is necessary to give certainties for the future, guaranteeing continuity to the productive activities that in turn generate work. [[Applause.]] (at 11.21 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u39	I briefly suspend the sitting, pending the arrival of Minister Cartabia in the Chamber. (The sitting was suspended at 11.22 a.m. and resumed at 11.29 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u40	The next item is the report by the Minister for Justice on the serious events in the surrounding house of Santa Maria Capua Vetere. I call the Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for urging me to speak in this House on facts which are very serious. This is necessary in order to give me the opportunity to share with the whole Parliament a reconstruction of the event, of the facts, of the interventions of the judicial authority and of the Ministry and, above all, to share some lines of intervention that are ripening, a little more wide spectrum, at the Department of the penitentiary administration and at the Ministry everything, on the problems of the prison, in order to attack the deepest and most rooted causes that have allowed, or at least have not prevented, such serious facts. Today's date has a historical coincidence, which we cannot fail to remember. It is July 21st and on this same date of twenty years ago, exactly in Genoa, during the days of the G8, the violence happened just as unheard of. And so it is our duty - today we will talk about Santa Maria Capua Vetere - to reflect yes above all on the contingency, but also on the deep causes that led, a year ago in that prison, to such an immeasurable and senseless use of force. Facts of this magnitude require an immediate response from the judicial authority, which must shed light on everything and establish criminal liability. But facts of this magnitude are spies of something that is not right and that we must investigate. We must intervene with long-term actions so that this never happens again. As I have already had the opportunity to say right there in Santa Maria Capua Vetere, during the visit with the President of the Council, these very serious facts, besides urging our firmest condemnation, call for a wider investigation, so that we know what happened in all the prisons in the last dramatic year, a year in which the pandemic has exasperated the conditions of the prison, already difficult for overcrowding, for the fate of the structures, for the lack of staff and for many other reasons. So let us look at all the, often chronic, problems of our prisons, so that no acts of violence are repeated against the prisoners, nor against the prison police officers, all too often attacked, nor against all the rest of the staff, who work under difficult conditions. [[Applause]] Prison is a mirror of our society and part of our Republic; we cannot remove it from our eyes and consciences. Violence and humiliation have been seen in Santa Maria Capua Vetere; violence and humiliation inflicted on prisoners, which bring a serious wound to the dignity of the person, to the person who suffered them, but they are also in contempt of the dignity of those who committed them. Dignity is the cornerstone of our civil coexistence, as the Constitution asks us, which was born - let us always remember - from the history of a people who knew and paid on its skin contempt for the value of the person and for this reason stands as the shield of all, especially those who are in a position of greater vulnerability. The use of force, even by those who legitimately can exercise it, is always an instrument of defense, of defense especially of the weakest, never of aggression, never of violence, never of abuse. [[Applause]] The facts are known, they are sadly known, also for the meritorious work of the press, which I thank, because it really lit the spotlight on a story that could not remain hidden. On 6 April last year an extraordinary search was arranged in the Nile department of the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere. The charges involving prison police officers and administration personnel are serious. They concern crimes of competition in multiple tortures, ill-treatment, personal injury, forgery in the public act, slander, aiding, procedural fraud, misdirection. All the crimes are grieved by the handicapped defense, by having acted for abject or futile reasons, with cruelty, with abuse of power, in violation of the duties inherent in the public service, with the use of weapons and for having competed in the events a number of people more than five units. Indeed, news from the press since last autumn has been reported of violence and investigations taking place within that institute. There had already been a parliamentary question on this. I wondered and asked the penitentiary administration why the facts that emerged did not give rise to an action by the Ministry. It has been explained to me in recent weeks - and it has been confirmed by the judicial authority - that the penitentiary administration had asked for information from the judges who were proceeding, but the judge proceeding could not answer for reasons of investigative secrecy. That is why - as I will explain later - all the initiatives that I will take into account in the Ministry are subsequent to the facts that have emerged in the light of the news from the newspapers. We know what the facts are. I don't want to insist on the images we all know, but I can't get out of my eye and mind - for example - the image of a prisoner forced to kneel before being struck. It is not only violence, but the very taste of humiliation. Another case involves a wheelchair inmate. And everything happened underneath the cameras that took it all back. There was no riot in progress. It was not a reaction required by a situation of revolt, but of cold violence. According to judicial documents, the extraordinary search of 6 April was ordered outside the cases permitted by law, the required forms were not respected and there was no decision of the director, who is the only one who can and has the power to do so. According to what emerges from the acts - I quote from the order - there would have been only one oral measure, i.e. a verbal order, to carry out a search for demonstration, preventive and satisfactive purposes, aimed at recovering the control of the prison and fulfilling supposed expectations of the staff of the prison police. These are the words of the gip ordinance. The day before there had been a riot in prison and in his order the gip reports some interceptions that - for example - speak of a signal to recover the institute. In any case, always from the reading of the acts, it turns out that it was not a search aimed at finding instruments for the alleged offense held by the prisoners, or other objects that could not be held in prison, but in almost all of the cases - I read from the provision - it was mere cover fictitious for the consumption of violent conduct, contrary to the dignity and modesty of the persons recluse. These are disputes of unprecedented seriousness. Still on the facts, allow me to refer to the situation of a prisoner, of which you may have read in the newspapers. I'm talking about Lamine Hakimi, an inmate with schizophrenia, who died in the Danube section of the prison on May 4, a month after the violence he suffered. The gip writes that there is no evidence that the prisoner died as a result of the blows and wounds reported on April 6, but it also suggests that it is possible that the death could lead to the taking of drugs made necessary to cure those wounds and contusions, which, added to the medications he was taking for his illness (the schizophrenia), caused a cardiac arrest. I was asked - and I repeat here - what a patient of schizophrenia was doing in prison. And this opens another chapter, another reflection, also made even more dramatic and exasperated after the year of pandemic: the protection and care of mental health in and out of prison. [[Applause]] Do we really have the necessary facilities? This point will deserve a great deal of study. Among other things, the Constitutional Court has asked the Ministry of Justice, the Regions and the Ministry of Health data and insights for an investigation that it is conducting. We cannot leave things as they are; very important steps have been taken with the closure of the OPGs, but currently the care and support activities for the sick are highly insufficient. Let's get back to our case. What happened after the judicial authority announced a series of precautionary measures that were taken against prison police officers and also administrative staff? I will spare you the reading of the measures for purely time; I do not read them analytically, but I ask the President immediately if I can hand them over, so that in total transparency there is an analytic description of all the measures taken. I can briefly say that all units of prison personnel that have been reached by a precautionary measure have also been immediately suspended from the service. The regional authority of Campania has also been suspended for eight months from the exercise of public office, and some further measures of suspension from the service have concerned other persons investigated even if not involved by the precautionary suspension measures (a suspension that is in the faculty of the Ministry to decide to assume). Similarly, the regent director pro tempore of the prison and the deputy director have been suspended. I would point out that the current director was not present on the day of events, because she was absent due to illness, and is not investigated. Some of these protective measures have also been withdrawn for various reasons: in particular, one for an error of identification of the suspect, and another because the gip considered it unnecessary to continue with the precautionary measure. In short, the total number of staff in the administration suspended for various reasons is seventy-five. There remain other suspects for which the gip has specified that there is no certainty of their presence and for this reason has rejected the request for precautionary measure. Of course, on this point the developments of the survey are expected before any other evaluation. As far as prisoners are concerned, all those involved have been transferred, as is normally done for security reasons in other locations, inside or outside the territory. The request for immediate transfer was for forty-four prisoners. In front of the contestation of these facts, when we received the provision of the judicial authority and when the images appeared in the newspapers, I immediately summoned an extraordinary meeting to the Ministry with the Subsecretaries, the summits of the DAP and the Guarantor of the inmates. The need was first of all to understand how it was possible and what information was available to the Department of the penitentiary administration; and also to ask to broaden the perspective, because - we all know - in many Italian prisons there have been tensions that have stirred up the prison, both for the aggressions that have affected the staff, both for the contrary, and to reflect a little on the deepest causes. If things have happened like those we are talking about here, it is because too many things have not worked, and not since yesterday, not since a year ago, but for a longer time. What happened to Santa Maria di Capua Vetere - said President Draghi during the visit - is a defeat for all of us. Criminal liability is individual and personal. We do not want to soothe anything from this point of view, there are no excuses or extenuating, but do we not feel the responsibility for the context in which the prison was lived, especially in the last year? I wanted to deepen myself personally, hearing the union representatives of the prison police, and I wanted to confront all the providers, which are the territorial articulations of the penitentiary administration on the territory. An internal inspection committee has been set up so that the administration itself can go before, even independently of judicial activity, to reconstruct problems and situations of tension, especially in relation to those realities in which we already know there are spies of tensions that have occurred in the last year. The commission will visit all prisons affected by protests, complaints or reports of serious events since March 2020. It is necessary to deepen the dynamics, verify the legitimacy and correctness of each initiative adopted. I think it is very important that, especially in a closed administration like the penitentiary administration, the Ministry can investigate within it. It must understand and bring to light any violations and criticalities. I believe that on this point something has been missing, that there has been a lack on the part of the Department of the Ministerial Administration, at least on this occasion. We must investigate critical incidents, but also look for the deepest causes and, above all, create material and regulatory conditions to avoid any further violence. The confrontation with the police, with the administration, with the providers, with the summits of the DAP gave me many ideas for reflection: for example, I was told that many of the agents involved in this bad story were personnel of the prison police normally no longer used for surveillance, but in charge of other functions; they emphasized the advanced age of many of them and in general an increase in the average age of all members of the prison police, also due to the difficulties of turnover and the recruitment of new staff. Everyone has reiterated to me the very strong tension that in those months of pandemics was lived in penitentiary institutions. You have to understand and grasp all this, understand and act. In addition to what I have told you about mental health, I have identified at least three priority lines that must be committed by the Ministry immediately: material structures, personnel and training. That of the material structures is a huge problem, and not only because of the overcrowding in the spaces, but also because of the degradation of many environments. Setting foot in a prison - as I did again, for example in Santa Maria di Capua Vetere - is instructive. I never tire of repeating a sentence that deeply marked my gaze towards that world, which is that of Piero Calamandrei, when he begins, on the prison, saying: "We must have seen it." [[Applause]] It is difficult to describe the conditions but, once you have seen the images, they stick in the memory. The many of you who visited Italian prisons know that. I have in mind the images of all the prisoners attached to the grates who tried to greet the President; the sight of an institute that boiled for heat, the difficulty to breathe in certain cells; the news that I did not know that there is no running water in that prison, because it was designed without thinking about the necessary connections and, therefore, the water reaches the prisoners in the cans every day. Can we think that such a degraded environment is conducive to the purpose of prison? Can we talk about reeducation when structures are in these conditions? Can we imagine the working conditions of a very difficult job that is carried out by those who perform the most varied functions within the prison (the police, the administration, the educators, the medical staff)? Visit a mental health articulation. It is truly an unforgettable experience that calls for an intervention. We need to modernize and adjust what is there, but also to expand for the problem of overcrowding. You know that with the PNRR funds, eight new pavilions were planned. I would like to reiterate this because I asked the committee on penitentiary architecture that is working on this to extend not only the beds, although necessary, but also the spaces of sociality. We asked to intervene on the wiring to allow a capillary video surveillance. Look at how important it was that those facts could emerge in the light of our eyes precisely by virtue of video surveillance, which is something everyone asks for: the prisoners ask for it and the agents ask for it. It is, in fact, to protect everyone. [[Applause]] The assaults hit the staff who work and hit the inmates. When there's tension, no one comes out victorious. Then there is a need to make a significant contribution to staffing. There are very serious deficiencies in all staff (the police, educators, staff of external criminal execution). We have resumed the competitions that were blocked for the pandemic; they are ending, but many Italian prisons do not have a director, because they are few and you have to divide two or three prisons. We talk about structures with about a thousand people with very different problems, because one thing is 41-a and high safety and another is the mental health and the problem of women. There are still the problems of women with their children in prison. Can you imagine structures so that they do not have a coordinating point, a final summit and subject to continuous criticality? [[Applause]] Allow me one last point that is particularly close to my heart also because, again, it is a reflection fruit of listening to the protagonists. The police staff, the administration staff and all the educators ask not only for initial training (the study that is needed to overcome the competition and that maybe gives an education on how to move the first steps within such complex realities), but a lifelong training that nourishes the culture of what it means to re-educate within a prison and that also gives operational indications on how to measure, when it is necessary - for example - the use of force, how to react in the face of the most various crisis situations. [[Applause]] Training is necessary, because - as I always say when I meet above all the agents, but all the staff with whom I also share my daily life, because they are also part of my protection - I find this to be a very delicate job, much more delicate than that of the other Forces of the Order. Their task - to remember the title of a famous free Foucault - is not only to monitor and punish, but also to accompany in the process of re-education all prisoners guaranteeing order and security [[Applause]] and participating in an essential job not only for all people living in prison, but for the whole of society, because those who live in a constructive way the period of imprisonment is also a less prone person to relapse. Let us not forget this aspect. It is also for reasons of general security that we must make the time of punishment more and more consistent with what the Constitution requires of us: that the penalty be re-educational. [[Applause]] This is also why we started a working group at the Department of Prison Administration to reflect on what training has been up to now and what it must become, along guidelines that nourish culture but also give practical indications. The facts of Santa Maria Capua Vetere have ripped a veil, perhaps in a somewhat dramatic and violent way, but now the reality of the Italian prison is before everyone's eyes, even before the eyes of the Government, which saw, even with the first person visit of the President of the Council, a fact that has not gone unnoticed in all the prison reality. The Government's visit, in addition to being a symbolic fact of closeness and presence where there has been such a great wound, is also an assumption of responsibility. The President of the Council concluded his visit by saying that the Government knows and does not want to forget. In order not to forget, it is necessary to start immediately an action also concrete improvement and rehabilitation of endemic problems of Italian prisons. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u42	Minister, the Presidency authorizes you to attach your report to the Minutes of today's sitting. He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u43	Dear Minister, we have heard from your words the reconstruction of what happened in Santa Maria Capua Vetere and the measures that the Government intends to take to sew the wound in the rule of law that the beating, legally qualified as torture, and the successive attempts of depiracy have inflicted in public opinion, in collective consciousness or at least in that part - I hope vast - which also considers prisoners subjects of law. I know you have this issue at heart and you have shown it as President, taking the Constitutional Court to prisons. It is not useless for me, as a premise, to reiterate the importance of the prison police force in the management of a complex and difficult world such as that of prisons. You also said this: often dilapidated structures, overcrowding, lack of staff, directors, educators, psychologists, cultural mediators. Precisely for these reasons, to the thanks for all those who work with conscience and dedication, which I have been able to appreciate in my previous duties as magistrate, cannot fail to correspond the firmest and most determined condemnation for what happened to Santa Maria Capua Vetere and I fear - perhaps in less serious but still unacceptable forms - in other institutions. The images, the exchange of messages among the suspects denounce not a moment of madness - she said: a cold action - but a tried and tested system of violence with its code name, the complicity and connivance of officials of every order and degree, the awareness of the gravity of the facts, the attempt to erase the traces, the determination to throw away the investigations, the anger in not having succeeded. How is it possible that, as a result of this, the DAP and the Ministry did not intervene for more than a year? She asked for it, too. How is it possible that the main leaders have remained in place all this time? The guarantee notices of 11 June 2020 should have advised in a precautionary manner at least the transfer of suspects, who thus had the opportunity to put pressure on prisoners and indirectly on their family members to withdraw complaints. How can victims and executioners live together in the same community? And I add the paradox that now paying for the consequences of the beatings are the same prisoners, some of whom are transferred hundreds of miles from their families, certainly not the inmates who have remained out of this. I regret, beyond the change of government and the Minister, that nothing happened before the intervention of the judiciary. We would all have preferred it to be the penitentiary administration and the Ministry that moved in advance, independently, on the basis of the detailed complaints of the Guarantor of the inmates of Campania, and not with a bureaucratic management of relations - obviously not corresponding to reality, given the charges of false - which led its predecessor to speak of a necessary action to restore legality. For the respect that we have of the law, for the love that we have towards constitutional principles, we cannot get rid of all this at an episode. We can't handle the rhetoric of rotten apples. There's still time to intervene forcefully. We ask you to take the measures announced as soon as possible, as required by the rules, and at the same time to speed up competitions, increase the number of prison police officers and other operators and improve their training. We know that there are many problems in our prisons, and I have listed them in premise; we have a duty to intervene in order to solve them, to completely rethink the prison system from all points of view or - as you rightly pointed out - the entire prison architecture, starting from the functions, which must certainly be disputed, of social security and reeducation. We cannot accept that those who are called upon to maintain order and to ensure the correctness of the life of the penitentiary institutions... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u44	Senator Grasso, the Presidency authorizes you to deliver the full text of your speech. [[Comments.]] We have established a rule and we have done it together at the Conference of the Leaders, namely that there would be no additional minutes for anyone, since I have always allowed everyone to speak with additional times and this has given rise to various disputes. We have established this and I would therefore ask you to respect the rules as they all respect them. Thank you. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u45	Mrs. Minister, thank you for your report, which makes a ruthless but true analysis of the situation in our country's prisons. Thank you also because, in the face of very serious events such as those we have heard and which we have seen, you, Madam Minister, the President-in-Office of the Council and the Government have given a very strong signal. I think that the presence in that prison and the strength with which that initiative was supported are important, because I believe that they demonstrate the will of the Government, Parliament and the institutions to make full light and to do justice to what has happened. Mrs. Minister, we want to shed light on what happened at Santa Maria Capua Vetere, but also on other events that are open and I think of the 13 deaths that occurred during the revolts, on which we need clarity. I believe that this initiative, having turned on this lighthouse with such force, can and should also be an opportunity for a whisper, to put a quick and concrete hand to the situation of prisons. Of course, we must set up more comprehensive reforms, but I believe that we also need measures to be put in place shortly. Parliament must do its part. We have called for and proposed the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into violence in prisons, because I believe that we cannot ignore what has happened and we cannot wait for it to happen again. They are victims of violence in prisons not only the prisoners, but also the agents. Recent research says that assaults on agents and operators themselves have increased. There is a climate of violence within prisons whose reasons must be investigated, because it is not enough to justify them with overpopulation. Surely there is a problem of insufficient treatment spaces, so it is very good that the PNRR has decided to finance not only more places, but above all more treatment areas. Certainly they weighed the Covid, as you said, Mrs. Minister, and the isolation in which the prisons were found, the boredom and the absence of work, space and meeting. We need to question this, as well as what we need to hold moments of communication with the outside that were created during the emergency of the Covid. We need to know - as you said, Mrs Minister, and you said it well - that the territory and the institutions need to deal with the prison and that the local authorities have relations with it. Prisons must become neighborhoods of the cities in which they are located. I believe that this guarantees a lot of control and prevention. They certainly weigh on the difficult working conditions in which workers have often found themselves operating. Mrs. Minister, I just want to say one thing. How do you start again after Covid? I believe that we must make this reflection now; we must reopen our activities, work and dynamic supervision. I wonder if we should consider, after what the inmates have been through in these two years, increasing the penalty rebates for those who have had good behavior. We must consider whether to make the measures of semi-freedom and housekeeping that we have introduced permanent. I say immediately that if the state of emergency is extended, Mrs. Minister, it will also be necessary to extend the measures that have worked and that we have included to reduce overcrowding in prisons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u46	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his words, which I very much agree with, touching on issues which are absolutely close to the sensitivity of a certain political part, including Calamandrei, Foucault and Article 27 of the Constitution, and also confirming a culture of reparational justice which I share and have greatly appreciated in this information. As Foucault will know and as he says in the book "Surveying and punishing" of 1975, Â containing the power of those who abuse it, to the detriment of those who do not do it, is a very difficult thing to do. Taking note of this is important, if we are to be considered a civil society, which takes care of the mistakes that society itself makes. He mentioned an April question, which I think was mine, saying quite rightly that there were investigations already underway and therefore it was not possible to answer the specific facts of Santa Maria Capua Vetere. Unfortunately, I had already had the opportunity to present another question in March on the events that occurred in Modena and Pavia and on the unrest that concerned the prisons of Salerno, Naples, Frosinone, Vercelli, Alessandria, Palermo, Bari and Foggia. Even before, in the so-called Italian Cura measure, I had the opportunity to table amendments, because the already serious situation of prisons, as you quite rightly said, was aggravated by the pandemic situation in March 2020. When we all received directions on distance, hygiene and care, in prisons overcrowding and lack of security compared to the Covid-19 were very high. He said that the very serious events which took place on 5 April and which you yourself denounced had been preceded by a revolt. What did that uprising, rather, ask for, because it was made clear that it was not a real uprising, but an agitation? Health security, distancing and overcoming overcrowding in prisons. I have to say that I am quite agitated, because I was very impressed with the situation and also with your speech. My emotion depends on your speech. It was also very clear that, in addition to understanding, we must act and give important priority lines, such as training and culture for staff. As for overcrowding, he talked about building new prisons. Although the issue is clearly brutal, in building new prisons, bearing in mind that we have 61,230 prisoners out of 47,270, we must take into account that 8,682 prisoners must serve less than twelve months of detention and 8,142 from one year to two. Before we build new prisons, we should think about alternative penalties, because, as you yourself said, Mrs. Minister, relapse, when there are alternative penalties, is far below that of those who serve the sentence in prisons. Therefore, before we start building new prisons, we should follow this line, because a society that builds new prisons has failed. We need to look for alternative penis and propose... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u49	Mr President, Minister, I must thank you for your words, not only for those you have just spoken today, but also for those you have just heard of the facts, with a strong reference to the values and principles of the Constitution. I must also thank the President of the Council, who came with you to Santa Maria Capua Vetere, because this has a very important meaning: the Italian Government treats prisoners like all citizens and, in the face of certain tragedies, is present entirely in their home and in their activity, that is, in prison. I regret to hear that it is not necessary to build new prisons, as we heard earlier, because it is wrong. In fact, in order to be able to affirm the principles of the Constitution, prisons must be livable [[Applause]] and that there is a fundamental space for each individual. We must not think that the prisoner must have any greater affliction than the deprivation of freedom, which he has already experienced; instead, we must guarantee him adequate structures for his needs. I visited about 43 prisons in our country. What he described exists in a fairly varied way in the various regions. I'll give you the example of Liguria, where there was the Savona prison, which I don't know if it's been fixed now, but visiting him and seeing him was absurd. However, to see also that a provider had managed to make showers in all the cells of the Region had a great significance for the prisoners. At the same time, with regard to all this, I have to say that I have confidence in its ability to ensure that sanctions are necessary and adequate for the investigation of individual responsibilities, because only that is what we can reason for. At the same time, however, it is up to us, Parliament, to make a contribution, in order to implement the preventive measures necessary to ensure that these facts do not take place. It is necessary to create capacity for dialogue within prison structures, between prisoners and prison police. He knows better than me that today we are talking about a very serious incident committed by some men of the prison police; but I do not forget - and he knows better than I do - that about 400 police officers per year are victims of strong violence within the prison. [[Applause]] We therefore need to implement and be careful with the rules that we have adopted. I am thinking, for example, of an unholy rule a few years ago, which, for preventive purposes, introduced the prediction that, if by chance you killed yourself or did something serious against a prison police officer, you were not entitled to the benefits of the Gozzini law for two years. This rule has been abolished, because it was an automatism. I am opposed to automatism, but in prison reality they are such as to ensure that everyone takes responsibility and is aware of the rights. But the right also means knowing that, if you are wrong, you must certainly atone for the penalty in the most correct way possible. At the same time, I cannot accept the hypothesis that overcrowding or the great heat (especially during this summer period) justify acts of violence against prison police or other prisoners, because there are also these. [[Applause]] We can't keep making big and good speeches. I believe that Parliament must make a commitment to respond to any requests for rules that the Minister intends to bring to our attention, but at the same time assess what the current rules are and what they are appropriate to the expectations I have referred to, essentially in order to ensure, through preventive measures, a different climate. We need dialogue and the ability to... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u52	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am glad that we are finally talking about the system of detention, the prison police and the situations that we, as League-Salvini Premier-Party of Action, have tried to bring into these classrooms. I am sorry that this happens only because of unpleasant facts and not because of the hundreds of reports given by that very world to the institutions. Unfortunately, however, politics often does not go in the direction of common sense and I say it reluctantly, because - here we all know - it is a battle against giants every day: otherwise, in fact, we would have solved the problem long ago; but this did not happen and maybe today those absurd videos, that we all saw and commented months ago, that have filled the newspapers and the news for weeks, would not have even been there. But here we are today discussing this. Everyone - please - will play their part, will have his theory to put on the field, will tell us more or less his recipes and the political day of Wednesday Parliament will end to comment on the umpteenth informative read in the Chamber by the Minister. That is the practice. For God's sake, it's legitimate, it's part of our work. But we realize that we are here to talk about it not because the problem is there, but because it happened yet another unpleasant, wrong and to be condemned? For God's sake, I do not want to justify anyone: whoever has wrong will pay. Once again, we are not able to anticipate the problems, but we must chase yet another disaster. [[Applause]] Mr Minister, I do not go into the substance of what has happened, which you have explained to us very well; it will be done by those who have to do so, certainly not by me today. However, on the facts of Santa Maria Capua Vetere I just observe that I do not think it is from civil country to see names and surnames of policemen thrown into the newspapers, even less before a serious trial. [[Applause]] Returning to the initial reasoning, to which I care a great deal, I want to make it quite clear that we are giving a wrong message. In fact, behind our parliamentary rhetoric - as you also pointed out - there is today a message of resignation from Parliament that it does not want to address this issue in its entirety, which starts from that alarm bell that the trade union signatures of the prison police have repeatedly expressed; it would be enough to listen to them a little more often. Dear President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are not here to speak because we want to remedy all the flaws that have made it impossible to manage the prison system over the years. We are not here to talk about it because we have grasped, after confronting ourselves with those who carry out this service on the field, the problems and the daily discomfort in making everyday life go on within these structures. We are talking about situations that go beyond the human limit of safety at the work of the operators themselves. On average, we have one active agent every 70 inmates, in some cases every 100. We are talking about a large number of psychiatric and self-harmful prisoners, who need different treatment from others. Today all these types are locked up and stored in the same detention institutions and are almost always followed by the prison police and not by people trained to follow this specific type of more complex pathologies. In this regard, I would like to reflect on the flaws of the Basaglia law, because this leads to an inconvenience which is detrimental to the safety of the operators and the prisoners themselves. [[Applause]] You can't just ignore it anymore. There is an alarming and growing fact, of which no one speaks, that has seen the prison police officers take their lives for what in psychology is called burnout syndrome, a serious problem for the agents who today work in detention institutions. Not only that: speaking of prison police, we discover that suitable uniforms and adequate defence protections are missing, as well as, in general, other equipment should be revised. I could keep putting problems on the table for hours to try to talk about it, but in this case more than content on the table needs immediate and urgent answers. Prison police officers are people, boys and girls who enlist in hopes of improving their lives, making themselves available to their neighbors. Let us not leave them alone and do not make the whole grass a bundle, in front of an unpleasant and unjustified episode, but we enter seriously in the perspective of fixing the Italian detention system, just to prevent these situations from happening again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u53	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, I would like to thank you for showing, together with President Draghi, particular attention to the issues in question, as you had also done before, as President of the Constitutional Court. The facts of Santa Maria Capua Vetere are abominable and certainly cannot be justified, especially against vulnerable subjects and considering that to carry out this type of violence are those who represent the State. These behaviors offend not only the members of the prison police, but all the penitentiary operators, who with a thousand difficulties, daily, try to make the penitentiary institutions work, with a shortage of human, financial and instrumental resources. I am very concerned, because I see the state's failure. I say it with my heart in my hand, because, before being a politician, I'm a technician. I have dedicated my entire professional and private life to legality. As director, I have not seen the prison, but I have lived it and I can say loudly that, without the individual operator and the individual director who with stubbornness try to carry on the paths of inclusion and legality, certainly the re-education and re-socialization provided for by the Constitution become an arduous activity. We keep in mind that the Constitution speaks of reeducation and therefore prison intervenes where society, with school and family, has failed and the work of reeducation is certainly much more complex. As Voltaire said: "Do not show me your palaces, but your prisons, for it is from them that you measure the degree of civilization." [[Applause]] Unfortunately, prisons over the years have been an uncomfortable reality. It was easier to adopt indults, amnesties and empty prison measures, but in reality we did not tackle the real problem of the need for adaptation of staff and spaces. We have been condemned by Europe. We are talking about education, but Europe has indicated where the spaces are reduced and where there is poor lighting and we do not forget that there are still cells with the bathroom on view. We are therefore talking about dignified punishment, as the legislator did in 1975, 2006 and 2018. This legislature has in fact carried forward legislative decrees no. 123, 124 and 128 of 2018, in which we emphasized the dignity of the human person and of the prisoner and also that the treatment must not see differences in sex or gender. On the other hand, however, it is necessary to visit the prisons and go to the cells, but not with pre-ordered visits. [[Applause]] We verify that in a cell of 21 square meters there are seven prisoners, because very often the prison managers and the directors, with all the staff, find themselves measuring the cell and verifying if a space of three square meters per prisoner is respected. This is the reality of prisons! It is therefore necessary today to try to implement alternative measures, including community measures. In fact, many people are unable to benefit from alternative measures due to the absence of suitable homes, and in this situation all foreigners are included, who continue to remain in prisons. Let's talk about psychiatric subjects and residences for the execution of security measures (REMS): an amendment at my first signature provides for an allocation of one million euros to implement beds and to prevent psychiatric subjects stationing in institutions. I hope that this rule will be put into practice and that it will apply. No new laws are needed, but the realization of existing ones, in this activity of collaboration with all the institutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u55	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, I really want to thank you for your presence in this House today, mainly because with your words you have shown that we are really facing a change of pace on this matter, as we have repeatedly requested, but remain unheard of. Your words about what happened are actually comforting and give the signal of your commitment and above all of your respect for what you have assumed since your first meeting with us, when you told us that for you the lighthouse is the Constitution. In this House I have repeatedly called for compliance with the Constitution to be first and foremost. With her we believe we have finally arrived on the right path, which has been missing until today (we also have other signs that are very current). To us of the Group that I represent (Italy Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano) cannot be blamed for not having mentioned in other circumstances the very difficult situation that had come to create in prisons, not only for what happened during the year of the pandemic (and she, in an absolutely exhaustive way, reminded those events), since even previously we had signals of the little interest in that sector. Just think of the fact that the Orlando reform needed the implementing decrees, but, when we talked about those relating to the penitentiary order, this reform was basically debased in its main content. Finally, I heard from you about reparational justice and finally we heard about it again, after three years, within the prison system, because what has been missing so far is the attention to that world. We can only take note of this and take charge of it. I repeat that for our part we had made our voices heard: since last year, we had asked for the resignation of the then head of the Department of the penitentiary administration, remaining unheard. The events of these days have upset all of us, even as ordinary citizens. The violence within the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere has put into crisis the entire social order of a rule of law and signal the breakdown of the community towards that part of citizenship. It has been well said that inmates are finally being treated as ordinary citizens, and you, together with President Draghi, have demonstrated this very well. There is a great deal to be done, however, because we have to take note of the situation and the lack of interest expressed above all in recent years. We want to accentuate this aspect, especially to give thanks to the prison police, despite what happened (which is certainly an isolated fact), because most of the time they find themselves operating in conditions of discomfort and despair. Only through their spirit of self-denial and self-sacrifice can the prison sector continue. In this sense, the measures you have announced are extremely important and we will support them clearly, because that is what you need: to offer a new life to that system. I was very impressed by one thing that you repeated today: we were used to hearing about prison building, while you used the expression "penitentiary architecture". This is significant, once again, of the change of pace that we are facing, because it means knowing the prison realities, which, as a lawyer, I know, as I have filmed many prisons in Italy. What has been said, in fact, does not at all give the idea of how we live within them. We must note that these are people and human beings who have simply gone wrong in life, sometimes in a very serious way. However, it is clear that if the State does not take responsibility for the mistakes of its citizens, we can only continue with the degeneration of those people. He said well today, once again: with good education, we can start a path of reintegration according to the principles dictated by the Constitution, which unfortunately are all too often forgotten and put aside. In fact, in prisons, in addition to those for the socialization he talked about, there are still no environments in which you can work and learn a trade. Often, thanks to highly enlightened prison directors, it is possible to create the conditions for prisoners to learn a new profession and to be ready to return to society. We know that there are projects - which you know better than I do - where work products in prisons are sold outside, at very, very low prices, and therefore used. All this only trains the people inside the prisons, preparing them for a new life when they're out. We are all aware of the situation that you have mentioned and which I referred to very briefly. Unfortunately, we also know that these are not isolated facts. There have been other incidents, which perhaps have not even been reported, as well as in the opposite direction: today the news is reported in the newspapers of a known member of organized crime who has beaten a custody officer inside the prison and not for the first time. This is a climate that is created precisely because of the conditions of discomfort. The problem of the overcrowding of prisons is now a long one and had been dealt with in a very appropriate way in the last parliamentary term, when we had achieved great results. However, it had not been done enough, because it had not been thought of the need for an extension of the size of the prisons, a new system (the one you mentioned here), new prison police officers and to put them in a position to work properly within the prisons. Overcrowding is a critical issue and we are convinced, as I said, that you have laid the foundations for a new path that allows you to look to the future with a little more optimism. We are faced with these problems after the pandemic year that we have experienced, with all the situations and revolts that have occurred, which have exposed - finally - the true reality of the prison system. Unfortunately, the principles set out in Article 27 of our Constitution have often and willingly remained only on paper. The prison sentence has always been used as the only response to the commission of a crime to demagogically pursue the principle of certainty of the penalty. This obviously cannot continue and cannot be the case. I am convinced that we are finally heading towards a new path. First of all, it will be necessary to invest in appropriate structures, as you have already announced, that are able to accommodate the prison population in more than dignified conditions, allowing it above all to move towards a new life path and conform to the rules of law. This dignity is often denied. It was also mentioned earlier that people often live in conditions of very little dignity, because of the visible baths and the lack of hot water or the possibility of taking a shower, if not in very particular conditions, as well as the thousand problems we know, because they have now come to light in an extreme way. Obviously, there is a need to look after the number of prison police officers. Its announcement on the extension of the organic plant will be an extremely important fact, as well as the institutions that will allow the use of penalties alternatives to detention. So we're gonna stop chasing the use of incarceration for the first time... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u59	Mr Totaro (FdI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group thanks you for coming to this House to report promptly on these facts and to tell us about what is happening in our prisons: this is a very important issue for a nation that must be an international model. As some colleagues said earlier, we must have prisons that are up to speed, not places where fate and degradation have been a common factor for many, too many years, in this country where politics has thought about doing something else. Sometimes, penitentiaries were also built, but they were left as cathedrals in the desert, without even being opened. This is what has happened all these years: the prison as a garbage can of the company; a little dirt we throw there and then someone will manage it. We want to express, as the Brothers of Italy Group, our appreciation, our closeness and our gratitude to the 40,000 agents, women and men, of the prison police that every day represent the State in our penitentiaries and do so with great self-denial, although not having a great salary, but with the strong will to represent the institutions, our State and our Italy, with the uniform. They do so between a thousand difficulties, in dilapidated structures, as we said before, and they also have to do with the people who are there. There is also a percentage of inmates who are there unjustly or who want to redeem themselves, but many others are multiple criminals and criminals who have committed very serious crimes outside; very often we have mobsters, camorristes, rapists or rapists who were outside the prison and who continue to do so in, using the same techniques, the same violence and the same threatening attitude towards prison police officers. If someone was wrong in Santa Maria Capua Vetere, it is right that you pay, because what you have seen is not acceptable, but you also have to distance yourself from a dog that we have seen in these months and days, in which you accused the prison police, pointing their finger at them regardless, forgetting the situation of gravity in which it operates and has to do with certain subjects. It's not easy, because sometimes the prison police officer doesn't just do his job and it's not just the state, it's also the social worker; we have a lot of cases of women and men doing this every day in our penitentiaries. It is therefore unfair to say that they are all violent or violent, as has been said in some press. We have only been reminded of that episode of Santa Maria Capua Vetere and we have forgotten - all have done so, Minister - which, for example, in the last year and a half - are data that does not provide Brothers of Italy, but its Ministry - there have been 1,234 cases, I stress, of aggression and violence against members of the prison police in our prisons, yet no one has ever had a debate on this in the Chamber to say what happens there. Our men in uniforms in prisons have nothing to do with Bocconi students, let's be clear. This is about getting to know prison. I know the prison well, I know it very well for many years and I also know the staff in there, the one in uniform and the one without uniform, and also the users who attend our penitentiaries, those who in part must try to redeem, to lead on the straight path, building a path that can reintegrate them into our society. Unfortunately, we know very well that there are very large pockets of people in there who committed very serious crimes outside and continue to commit them in there. Frankly, compared to the solution that someone has proposed to grant alternative penalties and to get them out of prison, we must see who and why, otherwise we cannot come here to Parliament or to television, with tears on her face, to say that such a woman was attacked because the person, coming out of prison on leave, went there and took her out, killed her, raped her, hurt her or set her on fire. Then it's too easy to cry the crocodile. These things must be prevented. There are bad personalities inside the prison who don't have to come out, but they have to stay inside and serve their time. Minister, one of the factors that leads to the redemption and recovery of our prisoners in prison is the respect of the rules: in prison there are rules, there cannot be the situation in which we now have reduced surveillance routes in there, so the prisoners are free to do what they want, often of course offending. This is not part of the 1,234 cases of assault on prison police officers; often officers are victims of threats and offenses in there, but they don't even report them. As Senator Caliendo said before, it is good that those who behave in a certain way in prison should not have discounts or facilities of punishment, even as far as the Gozzini law is concerned. It is not acceptable for one in there to behave like this, to set fire to the structures or break everything, as happened in the revolts that were prior to the events of Santa Maria Capua Vetere (not only there, but in all the prisons of Italy), and you never pay for what he did. In fact, it would be interesting to know, even with regard to the judiciary, how many of those who committed those crimes inside the penitentiaries, those who broke everything and broke up the prison, attacked the agents in the riots that were there, paid in some way for what they did, in financial or criminal terms. I think that there are very few of them, which I find to be almost no one. That is unacceptable. If you do not enforce the rules in the penitentiaries, it is impossible to go on roads that lead to the redemption of the deed, to its reintegration in a path that leads to the respect of the rules outside the prison, at the moment when it leaves. This doesn't happen. There is anarchy in the world of our penitentiaries and very often it happens that one or two agents - said one colleague before - are dealing with 70-100 prisoners in the sections. Even this story of a shortage of staff is old. Madam Minister, there is a contest made in 2019, which concerned 745 students officers of the prison police, which has been stopped for two years. These guys have passed the oral exam and they have to do the aptitude test and they've been waiting two years to do it, because they're not being hired. I wanted to tell you, Minister, but you will know better than I do, that over the next five years there will be 12,000 less prison police officers, because they will retire, or they will be reformed. We have to start talking about it and think about what is happening now, because there are already few in our penitentiaries now, in the coming years they will be even less. An intervention on this needs to be done. Wanting to put it in positive, Minister, the important factor also of his coming here, to the House before and to the Senate now, to talk about these problems is that you want to see what's going on and you're realizing it. Of course we cannot blame you for what has happened in recent decades, in which a certain policy has taken care of what was happening in the prison world and has preferred to give indults, discounts of punishment and approve measures emptied prisons. This was done, of course, also by hitting the citizens who then suffered the crime and saw, if anything, those who committed the crime easily get out of prison or stand around committing other crimes. It would be very easy to take this shortcut in order to respond to what Europe tells us or imposes on us, but we have to do a lot more and you, Minister, I think that in this case you have realized what you need. I am convinced that even on the part of Brothers of Italy - we are in opposition to this Government - if you work in the direction of tackling problems and intervening on the realities of the prison world, you will, as usual, find not an opposition up to itself, but a proactive opposition and of course will find our support because we want the resolution of problems and not the polemic end in itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u60	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u61	Mr President, Madam Minister, your words have been clear, but above all heavy and unambiguous. You have touched on an uncomfortable subject for politics and on this uncomfortableness I would like to return. I would say that in its clarity there is something much more than identifying unpleasant facts that happened not only in the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere; there is at stake article 13 of the Constitution - it has been remembered by many - which debuts saying that "personal freedom is inviolable" and also says that "every physical and moral violence on people still subject to restrictions of freedom" is punished. On the subject of freedom, enshrined in Article 13, it is from the beginning of this parliamentary term that we come back and go through it because it is an important issue that is found throughout the Constitution. In Article 13 it is stated very clearly, but I would like to point out when you spoke about the responsibilities of the context. Politics cannot be the space for comfortable access to consensus and this is the responsibility of the context, always. We also occupied this uncomfortable space of politics during the pandemic. It was not easy and today the facts show us that, unfortunately, we were right. So, we're against the claim that you have to rot in jail. [[Applause]] In jail it does not rot; if you have the idea that those who go to jail rot, this is the plant to be overturned and changed. That is the meaning of Article 27 of the Constitution, Article 13 and the whole Constitution, but that is the sense of security that we all hold. Security is legal outside prisons as in prisons. Safety is a concept of protection and protection. It is even more serious when those who are the guardians of freedom and our security are guilty of these very serious facts being in a position of authority. We cannot be content, therefore, with posthumous words of closeness or abstract commitments and I will thank you for your words and for calling us to the responsibility of the context. [[Applause]] There's a lot to do. We need to resume the reform of the prison system, invest in treatment, personnel and resources so that prisons are more humane even for those who work there. If we do not want to address ourselves rhetorically by wearing some sweatshirt or some half uniform depending on the seasons and if we want to talk seriously also to the prison wardens, we must deal with the conditions of the prisons and the fact that the penalty is modulated according to the route and that there are no automatisms. This is also not what we find out from today. We have fought to eliminate all the automatisms on the penalty and the aggravated sentences and we will continue to fight because this is the road to be beaten. So, let's say yes to more resources, more spaces for treatment, reeducation and training of prison agents, always to escape from the convenient rhetoric of attention to this or that. On the penalty discounts, it is already so: anyone who goes to a prison or a surveillance court knows that there is an observation of the prisoner, but the point is that there are few psychologists, few assistants, there is little staff dedicated to this. We have an extraordinary opportunity already with the reform of the criminal trial, in which alternative punishments are provided for in prison, which is not impunity. This is the different culture, this is true guaranteeing, not alternating currents. Guarantee is a global concept, it is legality in the process, it is legality in sanctions, it is legality in prisons. Let us discuss these last twenty years of justice, about guaranteeing, but about everything; let everyone come to the appointment and question some positions, otherwise we avoid... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Rotolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your words have been words of truth and without reluctance. That is why I really thank you, because we have marked a first step in this House right now, thanks to you, and you were right to remember this coincidence with 21 July 20 years ago. It happened yesterday, it happened today, it doesn't have to happen anymore. We listened carefully to your information on the horrible massacre that took place on 6 April a year ago in the Nile department, where 292 prisoners were victims of violence, of a plurality of actions contrary to dignity and modesty, degrading and inhumane, unacceptable to a rule of law. When she went to Santa Maria Capua Vetere she realized that there was no running water. The state must do self-criticism: do you know that that prison was built with the companies of the Camorra casalese? This is how a structure of the state was set up and it is not the backstory of journalists, but there are investigations by the judiciary. [[Applause]] We are all concerned, other than extraordinary and generalized search, it was indeed an organized massacre in the smallest detail and with the evidently covering of the chain of command. If you remembered July 21, 20 years ago, there must have been a reason. That is why, with other colleagues, with Senator Valeria Fedeli and Senator Franco Mirabelli, we are asking the Senate, the President and the Groups to set up a committee of parliamentary inquiry into the 360° prison system, because there is no doubt that prisoners are victims of violence, but there is no doubt that prison staff are also living in dramatic conditions. There are realities in which the re-educational function of punishment is applied and respect for the fundamental rights of prisoners is observed, but there is a need for immediate answers to the many questions that each of us poses after seeing those shocking images, which have prompted her to say that the Constitution has been betrayed. The scenes spread over the past few days referred to fifteen months ago; meanwhile in that penitentiary they lived together the same agents and the same prisoners, even if the alarm had been launched in the immediacy, then we heard about the parliamentary question. This is the vulnus. Why didn't the Ministry, the DAP, intervene? Of course, then the images were seized by the judicial investigations, there is the secret inquiry, so we learned about it a year later because the judiciary has its restrictive measures. We know, however, that in that prison, even today, there are agents who have not been identified who participated in the massacre. At the same time, we know of inmates transferred for protection measures, but they have been transferred to hundreds of kilometers. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that there have also been officers and directors killed to defend legality. [[Applause]] I like to recall the deputy director of the prison of Poggioreale Giuseppe Salvia, Agent Pasquale Campanello, the educator of the prison of Opera Umberto Mormile. She talked about a prisoner with your frailty, mental health, problems. There are health issues. We need more agents because they are alone, few and poorly paid. We need training, more educators, more social workers. Never more facts like the ones that happened. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u63	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u64	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would certainly like to join in thanking the Minister, both because he had the sensitivity to come to the Chambers and especially for what he said. I listened carefully to the speeches made by my fellow Members. I would like to ask myself a question, which I am asking collectively, which is what Parliament can actually do today to give answers. I have also given an answer because in the same words as the Minister there is an answer, if you will, pragmatic and concrete. The interventions that can be made in terms of judicial construction are linked to recovery, so this Parliament, if it wants to do something concretely to improve our prisons, buildings and living conditions, must assume the responsibility of doing what it has already undertaken to do, namely to rapidly approve the reforms called for by the European Union in the field of justice. We know that next week the Senate Budget Commission will begin to give opinions on the amendments to the reform of the civil process. The situation in relation to the criminal trial is being examined in the House, but we have a duty to respond with concrete acts, namely to follow up on the commitment that the Government, and in the first person, the President of the Council, has taken on the timing of the approval of the reforms. This is our collective responsibility, and this is what we must do first of all. It is also because judicial construction was the result of an act of Parliament's direction. The Committee on Justice, together with my colleagues Mirabelli and Caliendo, expressly stated in its document on recovery as one of the issues of judicial construction. I also allow myself to make a small contribution, remembering that there are many actors inside the prison. It has rightly been said that the prison police should not be blamed for doing terrible work in terrible conditions, but we should not forget the work done by educational legal officials and social workers, who are the link between the prisoners and the judiciary, especially the one in charge. We must also remember that a collective reflection on the execution of the sentence was made with the general states of criminal execution. That is what the President of the criminal chambers rightly said. It was a reflection that gave a series of indications on a subject definitely burning and complex, which should be resumed, because the headlights recalled by the Minister and the many interventions, which we must always keep in mind, are, on the one hand, the constitutional norms, but, on the other - allow me - the warning of the President of the Council, who, when he visited the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere said: We are here to celebrate a collective failure. I would therefore like to see such a delicate subject of prisons - and I close my speech - no longer dealt with as something that swings. I started a legislature when the problem was putting people to rot in jail; later, during the same legislature, the problem of prison agents came up and then everything swung from another side; then we talked about the fact that the mobsters came out of prison and swung from here, not even between guaranteeing and not guaranteeing, but on the wave of emotion that did not center the problems. In my opinion, however, the duty we have is precisely to focus the problems and, since we need resources to do this, we also know what we need to do to get them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u66	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important occasion which, while taking its cue from the tragic events of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, allows us to make a focus, which also benefits from the sensitivity that the Minister has always shown on these issues. Santa Maria Capua Vetere represents the extreme figure of what we have seen tragically, of everything that has been represented. I speak from Campania and from those who also live life in prisons, through the inspections that we have done several times: I speak of the surrounding houses of Poggioreale, Secondigliano, of the juvenile prisons (of that of Nisida), reality with very delicate and significant criticalities from the social and environmental point of view. Today we are talking about a betrayed Constitution, a collective responsibility, a system that needs to be reformed. We expect, however, at this point, and from this moment on, also in view of the European perspective, that the words follow the facts, so that prison and criminal execution as a whole be shaped in an effective and definitive way towards a system respectful of dignity, fundamental rights and really aimed at the re-socialization of the deed. In addition to what the Government imagined, with the National Recovery Plan and the use of European extraordinary resources on the structural side of the prison, the time has come for a comprehensive reform. It is not just a question of implementing new prisons, but it is also a question of creating a new prison, that is to say, a new prison, with regard to assistance, treatment, productivity and training, in order to finally bring it into line with our Constitutional Charter. Since 1948 our constituent Fathers wrote that punishment cannot consist of treatment contrary to the sense of humanity and must aim for the re-education of the condemned, a clear phrase, which does not lend itself to plurality of interpretations. The penitentiary system has only been able on a few occasions to respect these constitutional and regulatory imperatives and, despite the many years that have passed, the detention places have always been a thorn in the side in our rule of law, which no one has managed to eradicate, despite the signing of international treaties, different recommendations and convictions from the European Court of Human Rights. Clearly, some lines of action have emerged. The Minister spoke very clearly about interventions on structures, staff and training. I am also thinking of the new regulation implementing the prison system of 2000, which should be rewritten, taking into account the changes in the outside world, of the reform of the penitentiary system which came into force in October 2018, of the lessons learned from the health crisis and of the need to make the prison a responsible place, in which life flows as much as possible to the external one, with a view to a return to society of the prisoners. More resources also for alternative measures for community justice, educational and social projects that reduce the risks of deviance, external socio-therapeutic treatments for those who have addiction problems. More resources to modernise and improve internal life. Restructuring is a necessity that cannot be postponed anymore, as well as the strengthening of medical and nursing facilities. More resources to invest in human capital; the educators present are 18 percent less than expected: 733 instead of 896. That means one educator for every 73 prisoners. The economic treatment accorded to them is considerably lower than that of agents. Administrative officials are 21.6 percent less than expected. Also doctors, nurses, psychologists are insufficient, as are social workers. With the recovery will arrive in Italy more than 200 billion euros. One part will go to justice and the penitentiary system. This really is an opportunity not to be wasted with a series of interventions that have already been outlined analytically in the representation of the guidelines and policy lines of the Minister in the Justice Commission; we are sure that we will follow you in this delicate phase and in a junction essential for the life of the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u67	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of Justice, whom I thank for his willingness. Before suspending the sitting, I would like to welcome Elena Dora Tosato and express my congratulations to Senator Paolo Tosato, on behalf of the whole House and on my personal behalf. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 13.12 a.m. and resumed at 16.32 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u68	Mr President, we are in the general discussion of the so-called "Support-A" decree, which started in the first draft with about 78 articles and which arrives in the Senate House with about 160 articles. A decree-law that uses a figure of about 40 billion, which then is the amount of the last deviation, last of a series of deviations that have increased by about 200 billion the amount of our stock of public debt. A decree-law that is a kind of monster, as we are now accustomed to seeing, evaluating and considering: a kind of normative monster that ranges. Once upon a time there were a thousand extensions; then the omnibus, then the financial. Now, Mr President, what was previously an exception, as in so many other fields and attitudes, seems to have become a rule. It is a decree-law that extends and reproposes pieces of emerging decrees of the Count-Arcuri couple, just to confirm that, in most of its concrete measures, this Government does nothing but put back hand, almost always without determining great mutations, to measures already adopted by the previous Government Count. The examples are not lacking. Colleagues, as you know, I try to deal mainly with health issues. In this decree there are many articles dealing with the subject, at this moment, moreover, particularly sensitive to the daily life of the Italians. Well, paragraph 2 of Article 26 returns hand to the need to report on the benefits in recovery of what is called the suspended health care, the one that has been hung in times of Covid-19. It is about 50 million, more or less, of benefits, between diagnostics and health treatments left unfinished, which the Regions must recover. Resources have been allocated, with two successive legislative measures, practically photocopying, and our objections to those measures are taken in good terms in this text, which extends the time limits for reporting. From the beginning we said that it would be impossible to spend that money in terms that had been set and in fact the deadline for the reporting of the Regions is extended. Ladies and gentlemen, the deadline for reporting is only extended, but the criteria for the use of these resources are not changed and, above all, for the allocation of resources between the regions, which does not take into account the degree of aggression of the virus against the respective territory. To explain with an example, more resources are given to Campania than to Lombardy: with this I said everything. Article 28 of the decree-law under consideration, ladies and gentlemen, makes an operation that I call everyone to try to understand: 500 million euros are in fact destined to allow Italy's participation in multilateral initiatives for the financing of global public goods in the field of health and climate: here already the translator is needed. But then it is explained that, for the health sector profiles, this measure refers to prevention, preparation and response to pandemics and to the contrast to the VOCID-19. I challenge any of us, colleagues, to decipher this text, so that we can vote on the measure in full knowledge of the facts. So I do not know where this EUR 500 million will go. Another theme is that the Regions and Provinces can also credit private institutions for the sequencing of the next generation, defined with an acronym. We have a serious problem of atavistic inability to sequence, which has also been admitted by those responsible for hearing at the Commission and which I have already mentioned in a previous speech. At this moment the problem of variants is attacked, according to everyone - last but not least today illustrious virologists talk about it in the press - finally making swabs, which we are not yet doing - we have been saying this for fifteen to eighteen months now - but above all tracing and sequencing. Italy does not sequence and therefore it is very good to foresee a legislative measure that increases our ability to sequence, but the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that it does not need who knows what to sequence. However, it is necessary to spend money and buy the sequencers, which exist on the market and are supplied by many operators. If we believe that, for a measure that intends to increase our ability to sequence, it is enough to invest 46 million euros for 2021 and 23 million euros for 2022 means that we are really very optimistic, to the limit of being able to be defined of the illusory poor, by those who could correctly judge this appropriation, which really provides crumbs for a really gigantic and serious problem. On the other hand, there is a substantial figure, which is not clear at all, at the disposal of the extraordinary Commissioner, of EUR 1,650 million, for 2021 and therefore - attention! - for a glimpse of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a serious and quite original problem: in fact, about two months ago we administered almost 500.00 doses. In the past few days we have given 60,000-70,000 doses. This is a serious problem, which also concerns the management of the commissioner's structure. Is it documented how this huge amount will be used? I'm afraid this remains in the collective imagination; we don't know what's going on right now. None of us can criticize the general's actions, but we would like to understand why we have so drastically reduced the amount of vaccines given. And it is not thinking of introducing a surreptitious obligation to the vaccine, such as that of the green pass, that we can think of solving this huge problem. We must tackle this huge problem with a serious campaign of information and involving doctors of general medicine adequately; in short, with system measures that have the ability to measure their effectiveness. Our attitude to the decree-law at our examination is that of a criticism of the umpteenth provision that is brought to a closed box, without the possibility of modifying anything and without the possibility of improving even the most blatantly wrong or ineffective things. Obviously then there will be those who will make the explanation of vote for my party; however, for what concerns us and for the part that deals with the health issue, our judgment on this measure is clearly negative. It adds nothing new to what we already knew, that is, compared to the old provisions of the Count-Arcuri couple. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u69	Mr President, the Decree-Law-Supports-A, which we will finally convert into law, is worth even more than a budget law, if we look at the numbers. It is an imposing measure, born with the priority intent to shore up the economic and social fabric of our country, strongly weakened by this year and a half of pandemic. Attention: if this Government, at this stage, succeeds in finalizing such measures, it is also thanks to the great work that has been done since February 2020. That of the decree supports- bis is only a chapter of the saga, from the care Italy to the liquidity decree, from the decree throwing again to the decree August, passing through all the various decrees ristori. The furrow on which rests the shore of our economic system has been traced by a gentleman named Giuseppe Conte [[Applause]] , to which our most heartfelt thanks must go for how he was able to prepare this immense work in the darkest hour for our beloved country. So let us make it clear straight away that if we succeed today in achieving much for our businesses, for our families and for our health system, it is also thanks to how good it was sown during 2020. Let us give Caesar what is Caesar's. [[Applause]] The decree-law supports- bis aims to give a boost to the productive activities of our country. There are almost 15 and a half billion lost to small and medium-sized enterprises, traders, artisans, tour operators, farmers and many other sectors of production. The main novelty is that, of these 15.4 billion, more than 3 are dedicated to companies that decide to calculate their turnover loss from April 2020 instead of January. On the other hand, a further 4 billion will be paid on the basis of the operating result, taking into account the balance sheets and not the turnover. After passing the Ateco codes, a tool that unfortunately became necessary, but that did not help simplify the life of the Italians, we straightened the scenario also on the front of the turnover, thanks to the great work done by the Movimento 5 Stars during the parliamentary process of the measure. Then we were able to extend for another five months the tax credit for commercial rentals for those activities that saw more than 30 percent of their turnover go up in smoke. We have also extended further the discount on energy bills for our companies and financed with 600 million euros for the year 2021 a reduction of the Tari by the municipalities in favour of the categories affected by the closures. For the sports sector, a 50% tax credit will be re-established throughout 2021 on the advertising investments of sports companies investing in the youth sectors, as already foreseen for those carried out in the second half of 2020. In addition, the Single Fund for the support of amateur sports associations and societies has increased with an additional €180 million throughout 2021. In this measure we also embarrass ourselves with the hemorrhaging of business in crucial sectors such as textiles, fashion and wedding. The tax credit will be extended for the whole 2021 to 30% of the value of the final stocking stocks for textile, fashion, footwear and leather goods companies. In addition, for 2021, EUR 120 million is allocated to the Fund to support economic activities particularly affected by the epidemiological emergency, such as catering events, theme parks, aquariums, parks and zoos, weddings and commercial or catering activities operating in historic centres. This is the sector most affected by all, namely tourism, whose support fund is increased by EUR 150 million, in particular for the benefit of travel agencies and tour operators. Another EUR 50 million fund is planned for 2021 to contribute to tourism enhancement initiatives in the historic centres of the municipalities where UNESCO's World Heritage Sites are located. We also wanted to extend the tax credit of 65% for the redevelopment and improvement of tourist accommodation facilities-hotels. Finally, Mr President, let me express my satisfaction at the agreement reached on compensation for those undertakings engaged in the implementation of public works which are faced with the absurd fluctuations in the prices of materials. The pandemic, among the many misfortunes, has brought us in dowries also indiscriminate increases of many raw materials and, for this aspect, is proving to be a real ballast for many productive segments. After making this huge effort to give precise guarantees to those working in the big infrastructure sector, it is necessary to identify as soon as possible tools to help other sectors, including within the building industry itself. A year ago, when undersecretary Fraccaro began to hypothesize the idea of a 110 percent superbonus for the energy redevelopment and earthquake-proof improvement of private buildings, some in this hemicycle took us for visionary fools. Now, however, all political forces are well aware of how that fiscal mechanism is a crucial locomotive for the restart of our economy and, in particular, the construction sector. This is a measure that gives concrete expression to a term - that of the ecological transition - on which for now this majority has been able to produce only so much chatter and very little content. I would like to stress, however, a very disdainable behaviour, which cannot be implied in any way: while in parliamentary committees and assemblies we strive to give our best to formulate and improve colossal decrees such as the one at the vote today, outside there are people who are active in abolishing the income of citizenship and not in real political conviction. The lords who blabbing certain craps, cannonizing the income of citizenship, certainly do it not by ideology or because they have an alternative, but only to go against the Movimento 5 Stars and for small interests of consent and shop. These gentlemen don't care if the citizens' income recipients, in the most difficult months of republican history, have managed to line up lunch with dinner. These gentlemen do not care if our country has one of the highest rates of poverty in the European Union, in which, moreover, all countries - or almost - have similar mechanisms of income support policy, demonstrating that certain parties present here look to Europe only when it suits them. Let us say once and for all that the income of citizenship is not welfare, but dignity: that dignity that those who ask to abolish it show that they do not have. [[Applause]] I dedicate only a few lines to those who object that there are abusive perceptors who are not entitled to it. Well, when you find out, the law will take its course. Do you think all disability pensions are due or that someone under Naspi is not incorrect? Control should be encouraged and illegal behaviour punished, but this cannot be called into question. The Movimento 5 Stars thought so and for this it must be demolished. That's enough, that's enough. Melons, shameless, calls it methadone for addicts. But can statements of this kind be heard? No, you can't hear them. Thank you that life has not placed you in situations of difficulty. Mr President, I shall end by saying: let us take home this decree-law that affects millions of Italians in different ways (teachers, doctors, nurses, shopkeepers, small and large entrepreneurs, restaurateurs, gym owners and many others). Let's stop once and for all taking it out on those who have nothing and the night loses sleep thinking about how to get to the end of the month. It would be an act of maturity for everyone and here the age of maturity we all really do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u70	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law under consideration, which is inscribed in the wake of the previous ones, is a sign of the concreteness of the government's actions, with in-depth discussions and additions made by Parliament (I must say, however, in particular by the House, because we are now only ratifying). The decree-law has seen important updates and has also seen us working with our fellow Members, so as to bring home important results. The deep economic crisis is linked inseparably to the pandemic, which we still see in these days results that make us worry: there is an increase in infection and there are admissions, and this worries us very much. But I must say that we are very concerned about certain statements by Members who tell us that it is not necessary to vaccinate people. [[Applause.]] We are going against the current: the Dragons Government says that we must vaccinate; the General Son says that we must vaccinate; but someone says no, it is the same if we do not vaccinate, so do the others. That is not the case, because we all have to go in the same direction. Excuse me, but I am in a Parliamentary Chamber, and that is what I feel like telling our citizens that they are going to vaccination all the time. The events of these days make us worry, because if we go back it all starts again, while we are making measures that try to help people. The Government has made available additional forms of aid for even more disadvantaged groups. I should like to give you a list of all the measures that have been assessed, but I reserve the right to say that these are really the most disadvantaged categories: for example, VAT consignments. Who among you does not know a person with a VAT number who, unfortunately, has had major problems during this period? I am also referring - Mr Lanzi anticipated this, but I add - to the emergency income: with all the criticism, we have, however, saved people and families who have suffered so much and who need to be helped in their suffering, which is not only economic. In fact, when economic support is lacking, it often follows psychic suffering. On this I want to dwell, because we have worked a lot both on the previous decree-law support, on the decree-law support- bis, as well as on agendas with which we have really paid attention to the psychological need of people. That is what I would like to focus particularly on, the battle we have fought as PD, with our leader Simona Malpezzi, who wanted an agenda that has turned into an important amendment to the House. We have made funds available to finance psychological support for children, adolescents and families, who need to be supported during this terrible period. Funds have been made available to recruit psychologists in the national health system, to provide psychological services, including home care, to the minor citizens and healthcare professionals who need them, and finally to guarantee the LEAs. There is, yes, a need for civil rights, but we also need social rights. [[Applause]] , and being well is a social right. The resilience of which we fill our mouths is built together with the professionals who guide us in order to do so. Therefore, these rights must be guaranteed. Another important piece of the decree-law supports- bis is the addition of additional funds for the territorial and hospital services of childhood neuropsychiatry: also on this, in pre-Covid times, we had big problems, but it is important that small actions of concreteness have been made. No less important is the support for the most fragile people, such as patients suffering from oncology: also on this we have done a great battle, even with motions, going to review that new oncology plan, in which there really must be actions in support of these people. We have also achieved something about this: the total expenditure provided for in these important amendments is EUR 38 million. It is a beginning, but it is already a concrete beginning. But where is the criticism and consequently the wish and the request? These measures have a deadline, which is set at 31 December 2021; the request is that this deadline be extended, from the next steps, in order to structure these professionals, because the health and well-being problems unfortunately will not have a deadline. I wish it was such a short deadline, but I don't think so. Suffice it to think - my fellow Members know very well - about what we will have to face with the job losses that will come: I hope that the government will be able to deal with all this. So far we have done so with the planning of dismissals later and with the extensions, but this is something we have to deal with, because we need to support our citizens. Research funds are also important, and here I should like to make a few remarks: research funds must also include investment. In fact, if I think about innovative medicines, they cannot be considered a cost, they cannot be considered current expenditure. If we think of healing sick people, because using innovative drugs means healing people, over time we must also think of the return from the economies that will be made, because if people heal, thanks to this we will not need to invest more money. Therefore, also from the budgetary point of view - I am addressing the Undersecretary of the MEF - I would ask that these aspects be taken into account in order to consider the funds we make available, especially for new medicines. Other important investments have been made: for example, tax reductions for the production of medicines, but also vaccines. In this regard, I must say that the pandemic has taught us something: at last we must also be autonomous in the production of medicines, so that we do not always have to take shelter from other countries. Then there is another subject that has really seen the collaboration with my colleagues in the House of Deputies' Health Commission, especially my PD colleagues: we have finally seen, after a long time, after trying already two or three times, an amendment approved, I must also say together with my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, because it is a battle that we have all fought together and I say it out of intellectual honesty. Finally, the socio-sanitary role for the professional profiles of social worker, sociologist and socio-sanitary operator is recognized. At last we were able to recognize to these people also a role that was already defined by Law No. 3 of 2018, but that had still remained on paper. Well, this amendment, which saw me participating with the first signature already in the previous measures, had unfortunately never succeeded, for reasons of inadmissibility, in achieving a successful conclusion. They have succeeded in this House and I hope that it will be final. We have accepted the call of so many social and health workers to bring this amendment to the end of its process. Today we can say that we are certain that this has happened and we are taking care of it. As for the reorganization of our health system, ladies and gentlemen, we can buy all the most important equipment, we can have the best hospitals, but if we do not strengthen our staff, the professionals, if we do not give them the skills and we do not give them the motivation to move forward, such as the recognition of this role, I think we will not do a great job. I think that health care needs tools, technology and, above all, the human factor, which is what we have to deal with because they will take care of us when we need it. Mr President, I believe that this decree-law has put some basic points in place. Of course, we must work to ensure that the concrete aspects that we have included in this measure can be maintained in the forthcoming regulatory measures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u72	Mr President, I am speaking in this House about the decree-law on support-a, especially for the part relating to education, because it seems to me that a great deal has been said about the rest. Of course, there are several critical issues concerning the unblocking of redundancies, for example, which is unfortunately putting thousands of workers in serious crisis. It's extremely serious, but even on the school, no time was wasted and the usual crap was done. Unfortunately, if I may say so, different recruitment procedures have been created for teachers once again, when it would have been possible to give the floor also to all those who would have had to face the ordinary competition. For three years now, aspiring teachers have been waiting for the ordinary competition. Since 2018 we have been working on it, but the political forces on the ordinary competition, whose selective procedures can concern everyone and are provided for by the Constitution, do not find the square because everyone must clearly satisfy someone or some category of their own interest. This is how we really do the evil of the school and also the data of the National Institute for the Evaluation of the Education and Training System. (Invalsi). Law 107 of 2015, in fact, requires teachers to have compulsory structural training, but for the access requirements, preferential lanes are created, creating non-selective recruitment routes for some, disadvantageing all those who have already submitted the application and paid the registration fee for the contest. All ordinary procedures are suspended sine die; we do not know when they will be resumed, while extraordinary ones are launched, which overlap with others that have just been concluded. Therefore, even more places will go to the so-called precarious, including many, unfortunately, are not even enabled. A further procedure differentiated from the others has also been activated for them. I wonder: if everyone has to be a teacher, everyone will have to sit in the chair, everyone will have the same salary, why do you create different paths when the requirements for teaching have to be the same? Because we want to continually not only undermine the constitutional dictation, but also create incoming situations that also affect the quality of the training of our students, which is the aspect to which we should look first. Unfortunately, however, we do not do so because there is no commitment on that, except nominal. Just think of the summer plan, which is based only on playful-recreational activities and psychological support and support, while nothing is done for the training gap. We know that the school is a training agency, although, unfortunately, it has been corporateized against our will. The school is a training agency which is clearly responsible for creating and forming free, aware and critically conscious citizens. Unfortunately, the Invalsi data give us a completely different picture, and if we do not ask ourselves the necessary questions for a rethinking of our education system in a very different and contrary direction than the one we are going to, we will have nothing but bad results. Another problem that has not been tackled well is that the teachers who will then be started on non-selective recruitment paths will be taken by the graduations for supplements, which are not made for recruitment paths. When teachers are started on recruitment routes, then they will have to remain in the regions where they have applied for three years, because the block of mobility will be applied. This is also something we do not share at all. There have been improvements to the text that was adopted by the Council of Ministers, for example, we have seen that the regulation for the competition for technical managers has finally been restored, but we also hope that it will be banned immediately, because there are only 35 school inspectors and technical managers throughout Italy and this cannot continue, because schools are at the mercy of themselves and abuses of all kinds, which remain totally ignored by the central administration. As far as equal schools are concerned, we do not agree with the funding of EUR 60 million for the sector, because we know that these schools should live with their own funds. The only positive thing is that an amendment that our Group has tabled to the House has been approved, thanks to which, at least for access to this funding, schools will have to make public the budgets and the staff, which we hope will at least avoid that the resources go also to the many diplomas that there are throughout Italy. But this should also apply to school equality, which should only be granted under certain conditions, i.e. provided that these institutions have public and transparent and organic public and transparent budgets: only in this way can it be accepted that private schools can be equated with those of the State, as well as educational qualifications. There are still so many points which unfortunately do not go well in our education system, further criticalities have been added in the support-a decree, and that is why we will vote against this measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u73	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u74	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in dealing with the responses to the emergency and for the country's recovery, this Government has clearly marked a courageous change from the previous one. It is our opinion that the Dragon Government is working well, despite what has been done by the Count Government. [[Applause]] Our vision is very different: we were accustomed to the decrees of restori one, two, three, four, to so many measures gruffed, confused with each other, without an organic design, without an order of real priority, demeaning the effectiveness of the many resources however made available, all too often wasted by the Count Government. Now instead to the first decree support has followed the decree support- bis, whose organicity to the first is given by the measures inserted in the decree, also following the agendas of the day that precisely in this House had been voted as a precise commitment to the Government for the support- bis. As the majority rapporteur to the first decree supports, I express satisfaction because the work of the Senate did not end with the first measure, but it continued also in this decree-law. Despite the fact that the second reading in the Senate has found very tight deadlines and the impossibility of any change, this branch of Parliament has been able to express itself through demanding agendas, and has been taken into account by the Commission. Every agenda has turned into a standard, and we hope the same will happen for today's agendas. Fundamental, therefore, are the answers given for the coverage of the fixed costs on which we were very committed, for the activities that have been closed, that go to complete the measures adopted in the decree-law supports, such as the tax credit for the rents, the exemption of Tari, additional funds for the payment of the electricity bills and funds in support of the activities and the sectors most penalized by the crisis. At the same time, we committed ourselves to further allowances for seasonal workers and sports, to the moratorium on loans until 31 December 2021, to the extension and remodulation of the guarantee instruments. Both through grants and through access to credit, no one must be left behind, or at the risk of questioning a system of input on which our country is based in a particular way. For example, we think of a sector which is severely penalised by the crisis and which is an important component of our GDP, namely tourism. We must not forget that this directly constitutes 6% of GDP, but it reaches 13%, so more than double, thanks to all the induced to it. To remove a piece of our production fabric is likely to bring down a large part of the system. In this historical moment the balances are very precarious. To the crisis dictated by the pandemic and the consequent closures is now added the lack of raw materials and the uncontrolled increase of the costs of the same, that they are creating more difficulties to the enterprises, but also to the mayors. Let us think of public works, particularly school buildings: that is why we have tabled an ad hoc agenda. Let's think about the automotive sector: it is now impacting on revenues and volumes the interruption of production precisely because of the lack of chips and raw materials. This, among other things, is one of those areas in which the European Commission is calling for conversion to eliminate CO2 emissions by 2035. So, well the allocation of 350 million to support the sector, with 15 million resources dedicated to the purchase of electric vehicles, then an extension of the ecobonus. We are at a crucial stage, where we must go beyond the emerging measures, in order to ensure stability for all sectors, including the transition. A transition that must have adequate time and guarantee economic and social sustainability at the same time, and this Government has shown that it can respond, without just chasing the virus, to the needs of the country. [[Applause]] Forza Italia has been supporting the need for greater flexibility in the world of work for months; finally, with the decree support- bis the decree-law dignity has been challenged in a structural way, opening up to fixed-term contracts, at least until the end of 2022, although through collective bargaining. In fact, more opportunities are needed, which are also given through flexibility and above all by strengthening and reorganizing training. The process of change requires this, and in this sense the National Recovery and Resilience Plan becomes an instrument of primary importance. Employment must be ensured through training, support for the enterprise system, investment, certain rules and reforms. The blocking of redundancies has been useful in ensuring the cohesion of the social system at the most crucial moments of this pandemic. However, keeping the line exclusively in this direction would only cause the problem. The companies that have irresponsibly fired about 570 workers without whether or not but, without even allowing them to take advantage of social shock absorbers and to agree a table with representatives of the institutions and the social partners, do not embody the ethical and moral values of the vast majority of our entrepreneurs. We must intervene, there is no more time to lose, in order to avoid mass relocations that, I remember, should have always been stopped with the so-called decree of dignity. Among the original objectives of the aforementioned decree one was to abolish the precarious, the other to penalize the companies that had relocated. I remember instead that, despite an increase of the contracts indefinitely in 2019 regarding 2018, the Observatory on the precariousness of the INPS has found a decrease of the places of work: 876,000 in 2018, 842,000 in 2019. It is therefore clear that, despite a fall in the precariousness, unemployment has increased. It is not by holding companies within national borders with burdensome sanctioning mechanisms that maintain jobs or produce new ones. Unfortunately, we have seen it and we had foreseen it. The crisis tables are still in 2018. Too much and bad is committed to the income of citizenship and too little for businesses. [[Applause]] The economist Keynes claimed that if the enterprise is awake, wealth accumulates, no matter what the savings do; if the enterprise sleeps, wealth decays, whatever the fate of the savings. Now there is a scenario in which we must have the courage to change, to change what is not right, to abandon our ideologies and to row together towards 2026, 2027, 2035 and 2050. The energy transition will certainly need more time to complete the process than the European Union has foreseen. However, these dates mark great goals for our country to keep up with and not just because Europe requires it, but because our country system asks us to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u75	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are unfortunately faced with the challenge of the government's modus operandi, which does not depart from previous governments. The method is in fact always the same: to move forward with confidence. To us as Brothers of Italy, this method will never work well; make it right. Now we are no longer in a perfect bicameralism, I would call it a monocameralism in alternate phases; once you have the House discuss the provisions, another time you have them discussed in the Senate. In short, in the institutions too, there are shifts, unfortunately because of the government's protagonism, which is forgotten - and I wonder if the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars, who for me were those of streaming, of transparency, those who wanted to open this Parliament like a can of tuna - who in Parliament sit the representatives of the Italians. The problem is that you put your trust because you have a majority united only by two issues: the desire for armchairs and power, because everything else is divided. We also see this in the Decree-Law on Support bis, where over 4,000 amendments were tabled, most of which were tabled by the majority. Then I'd like to tell you to ask yourself a question and give you some answers. All we have to do today is take note because the decree-law supports- bis comes to us from the Armoured Chamber and we cannot propose any changes. I remember that the measure is like a financial maneuver colleagues because it has a value of 40 billion Italian money and therefore it is absolutely unfair for us that there is no debate. It is in fact 40 billion debts that will weigh and weigh on our children. This attitude has been repeated for a long time now. However, I appeal to the President of the Senate; in fact, I believe that the President of the Senate should take action to restore full democratic viability. I don't think we're in this condition. On the subject, I believe that the second decree-law supports lacks what we need, that is, vision, economic recovery and prevention in the fight against coronavirus: there is nothing about this. On the other hand, what can we expect from a majority that fights absolutely about everything, from a majority that in these hours talks about green pass mandatory to go to the stadium and perhaps also to have coffee? However, I would like to know whether even immigrants who arrive irregularly on our coasts will have to have green passes or whether your therapeutic fervour is only and exclusively on Italians, workers, entrepreneurs, companies. For others the problem is not there. You do this also in the decree-law support- bis under consideration: instead of helping businesses and workers, you help others. Congratulations. Continue the income of citizenship, which certainly has not served the purpose for which you have proposed it: it has not served for poverty, which is increasing and we do not say so, but Caritas and important institutions. So it did not solve the problem of poverty and it was not even, as you propagandad with your Minister Di Maio, an instrument for active labour policies. Thank God you abolished the cashback. But I think there is a truth: fortunately the Italians no longer believe you and when the time comes to vote - because sooner or later it will come, despite the pandemics and governments made at the table - then it will come the judgment of the Italians and will be commensurate with your failure in the disastrous management of both this pandemic in everyday life, and of our economic system. I understand that even now you may try to make the vaccine compulsory, because you are like this: everything mandatory, rules against entrepreneurs, against businesses. Look, I did both doses of the vaccine, and I went there as soon as my shift arrived, so I always say that the vaccine is an important tool, but it shouldn't be the only one. In my opinion, this government and this majority live on the day because they do not have a future horizon, I say so with reason. Do you really think that all the problems of our nation can be solved by urgent decree? No, gentlemen, that's not the way. I believe there is an urgency in our country and it is to send you home as soon as possible, because you have so much talk, little facts and you are also hypocrites. You are concerned about the end of the blockade of dismissals, but then rejected the proposals of Brothers of Italy to halve the cost of labour. We have seen in these days that you stand as champions of LGBT rights and then sign trade agreements in those countries where homosexuality is a crime even punished with the death penalty. Let the Italians gather everywhere, in the streets, in gay pride, in rave parties, but you still insist on keeping the discos closed. Repeat that you are open to confrontation with oppositions: those of you who go on television say that you are for dialogue, you are open to oppositions, but in reality you systematically reject all proposals of common sense made by Brothers of Italy. You call yourselves democrats, but then you block Parliament, clinging to the debate, and the only thing that suits you well - I am addressing the Government - is to continue with the vote of confidence. Congratulations on your sixth vote of confidence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u77	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we discussed Zan's draft law a great deal. However, the wide-ranging debate is not yet over. Yesterday, in my speech, I spoke to you about priorities for our country. The measure we are debating today, very quickly, however, and with a short time from the forthcoming deadline, is a priority in my priorities. In the Senate we had dealt with the first decree of support, with which we had started a new season of aid to companies, families, VAT consignments and the recovery of the economy after the forced closures due to the health crisis. The first decree of support was based on a deviation of 30 billion, approved again by the old government, considered by us all insufficient, so much so that many remained unresolved issues, highlighted by an agenda, agreed between us senators and signed by the majority group leaders. That agenda, approved at the beginning of May 2021, found its implementation (and it is rare for an agenda to have its own implementation) in the basic text of the support-a decree. So, ladies and gentlemen, we can still be satisfied that we have done good preparatory work. Today, however, we are going to examine this text quickly, worked and implemented by our colleagues in the House. When it comes to hard work on concrete issues, the League always demonstrates the pragmatism of its women and men. That is why, although the time for analysis has been very short for us in the Senate, I would like to thank the members of the Lega Group of the Budget Committee for the great work they have done in the House and for the results they have achieved. In particular, I congratulate the rapporteur, Massimo Bitonci, who has made possible the inclusion in the original article of several amendments strongly desired by the League and agreed with the whole majority. The list has already been abundantly mentioned by my colleague Faggi, but it is also right to mention all the interventions on taxes, extensions, fairs, third sector, Horeca sector and wedding; and then interventions on companies, with refinancing of the Sabatini law, on the spa sector, on the agricultural sector, with the frozen fund, on the beekeeping sector and on 'automotive, with the extension of the incentives also for the purchase of vehicles used with low emissions. That's new. Also, interventions for tourist guides and for tourist buses, interventions on sport, with non-refundable contributions also on sports facilities, in particular on swimming pools, and then many other interventions that I am not here to list. These, perhaps, are the most important things I care about. A step forward was also taken towards property owners affected by eviction blockades, with the extension of the exemption from IMU payment to the whole 2021. Similarly, rent tax credit was also extended to businesses with a turnover of more than 15 million and located in shopping centres. Some issues have obviously remained unresolved and open and some agendas have also been tabled by us here. In particular, an open issue, which I would like to point out, concerns the extension of the measure of the transfer of tax credit related to the 110% bonus. On this point I appeal to the Government. We all know that the 110% bonus has been extended, but for this extension to be real and usable it is necessary to work to find a way to extend the possibility of giving up tax credit. This is crucial. [[Applause]] The open issues, therefore, are still many, but the League will continue to propose concrete solutions and will always be alongside the companies and the people who work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u79	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u80	Mr President, the bis-support decree arrived in the Senate in the vicinity of the deadline and was therefore examined very quickly: we did not have the opportunity to examine it in depth and, above all, to propose and approve amendments. This is because of the bicameralism with alternate one-way, which lately is concretizing on several measures. These are certainly powerful measures, which affect the legislative offices of all the ministries and Parliament. On this we should ask ourselves, in the sense that we should find the appropriate, correct and appropriate formula to ensure that the measures are dealt with in a specific way by both branches of Parliament, both by the House of Deputies and by the Senate of the Republic. The fact is that unfortunately this is not the case, probably because these measures are too large and too many are the modification measures we are proposing. It is right that the senators and Members have the right to propose amendments to these measures, but unfortunately the power and scope of these instruments is so high that they do not allow the legislative offices of the House, the Senate, but also the Ministries, to be able to examine effectively all the proposals put forward. So, times are necessarily getting longer. I had thought of acting critically towards the Government, which forces us to do this one-way alternating bicameralism, but it is not a criticism to do to the Government, because unfortunately we have to realize that our structure is not used to examining such important and voluminous measures: this is the reality. So let us lament the fact that we are intervening in this way, only one House at a time, but let us also take into account the reality of the fact that there are too many measures to examine. We are all entitled to make proposals, but these proposals must be examined, quantified and evaluated and we are not in a position to do so. [[Applause]] Is it everyone's fault? Probably, in my opinion. However, we must realise that we are not in a position to do everything we want to do. So the criticism of the government is a bit in place, but the criticism should be directed, in my opinion, towards us too - and I am doing it to myself - especially when we propose measures that are not based on air, but not sufficiently studied, in order to put in conditions those who have to examine them to do so in an appropriate, correct and rapid manner. These are things that we learn day after day, being here, in Parliament. As I enter into the substance of this measure, I take off my hat as President of the Budget Committee and wear that as a member of the 5 Star Movement, because this measure is full of measures, for 40 billion euros, in favour of companies, citizens, nurses, doctors and schools. This is a very rich measure, but there are measures that the Movimento 5 Stars really cannot appreciate. First of all, I refer to the decree of dignity: in 2018 we made a real effort to protect precarious workers and thanks to the decree of dignity we managed to reduce the number of fixed-term contracts, to increase those for an indefinite period and to give greater security to working citizens, in particular those who wanted to build a family. But now we are taking a step backwards, which, fortunately, has been revised during the parliamentary process in the House of Deputies. In fact, an additional clause and an additional causality have been added, certainly discussed at the level of national collective bargaining, which will still allow the lengthening of the period of fixed-term contracts to be extended even further. That's not good for the workers. [[Applause]] Instead, we should continue to work as hard as possible to ensure that they have greater safety than a safe and lasting job. Let's move on. My colleague Garnero Santanchè appreciated the fact that cashback has been suspended: I do not address you, I address the President and say that cashback is a measure that has served a great deal. It served because 9 million Italian citizens, thanks to cashback, have decided to install the IO application. In this period, applications are very important, because they allow, especially the IO app, to create an interface between citizens and states, between citizens and public administrations, between citizens and services that our citizens must enjoy. [[Applause]] Without these applications, these services are not used; so it is useful to improve dialogue, improve compliance between citizens and public administration and make it easier to interact. Since we are often asking for public services to be provided more easily, I would remind you that this is precisely what the IO application is for. The cashback has served this purpose, as well as reducing the famous tax evasion, which we often complain about, saying that it must be fought. The IO app, and especially cashback, reduces tax evasion, because transactions are rewarded if they are tracked and if traceable tools are used, such as e-money. So the cashback has served, the data show us; unfortunately those who decided to suspend it probably did not examine these data in depth and admitted it as well (and we absolutely don't like this). It was an attack on Movimento 5 Stars on a measure that we claim here. [[Applause]] We will do everything possible to ensure that cashback is re-proposed, re-used and perhaps improved, because we know that this measure in some sectors can certainly work much better, while in other sectors it can also be unused, such as in large-scale distribution, where we already see that there is a reduced tax evasion at the time of the receipt. In this area it could also be unused, while in other areas where tax evasion is easier (and we know that there are some), it could even be a rewarding incentive, increasing the premium itself. So cashback is definitely a measure that needs to be re-proposed and reconfirmed. Let us go further: there are two other measures, ladies and gentlemen, which had nothing to do with the decree-law support. Here in the Senate we had already said that they had nothing to do with it and had been declared impossible (but they went on anyway). Explain to me what the contagion, the epidemic, the need to rebuild a country and to restart the economy by hunting. [[Applause]] Does this have anything to do with the plague? Do live baits and live animals have anything to do with the epidemic? Luckily, in the House we managed to limit the measure to 2021, with a cost fortunately limited to 500,000 euros. We have succeeded - because I am speaking as a Parliament - in reducing VAT on live animals and live animals used as hunting calls. It is already a barbarism; now we are also going to encourage this barbarism. [[Comments]] As a Member of Parliament, I am genuinely ashamed of this measure, even though it has been approved in the House. We will try to do everything possible to ensure that this measure is completely eliminated by 2021. [[Applause]] The 5 Star Movimento is engaged in these days in a collection of signatures to abolish the same barbarity that is called hunting. [[Comments]] Hunting is barbarism; you certainly think differently, but I think it's barbarism. There is another measure, strongly wanted by a group of this Senate and the House, which concerns electronic cigarettes. Also in this case it was declared inadmissible to the Senate, but it was proposed to the House and was approved. Now, taxation on e-cigarettes is a very sensitive issue, because e-cigarettes also contain nicotine; touching the tax on products that contain nicotine can affect consumers, but not through marketing, but through the fact that they still take nicotine. So it is not said that lowering the tax will lead to increased consumption of electronic cigarettes; it could also increase the consumption of actual cigarettes, because they contain nicotine even normal cigarettes. This is a very delicate measure, which should have been adopted in a measure of its own; instead it was introduced in this decree-law supports, always with the excuse of the pandemic. But not only that: this tax reduction measure on electronic cigarettes comes after other favours done to manufacturers and distributors of electronic cigarettes in 2018, when the tax had been lowered by 95 percent (now we lower it by an additional 5 percent). But do we want to charge some taxes on e-cigarettes or not? I'll stop here and thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u81	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the first standing Commission on this draft law, which will be published in an annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2320, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 73 of 25 May 2021 into the text approved by the House of Deputies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u83	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 73, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 17.42 a.m. and resumed at 18.08 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u84	The Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law on urgent measures related to the emergency by Covid-19, for businesses, work, young people, health and territorial services, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall now proceed directly to the explanations of vote, which will take place tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. and which will be followed by the call.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u87	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to bring to the attention of the Senate a sad fact that has filled the newspapers of Sardinia some time ago, and in particular of Sulcis, the lower part of Sardinia. I refer to what happened to Carloforte, a municipality located on the island of San Pietro, a little particular island that I know well for the strong traditions, especially linguistic, linked to Genoa and Liguria. A person is ill, a helicopter rescues her and brings her to the mainland; he lands in a sports field, the Carbonia stadium, and at the same time arrives the 118 Ambulance to take her to the hospital in an attempt to save her. But the stadium is closed with a lock, the ambulance stays outside and no one opens the stadium door. The guards of the Municipality of Carbonia arrive abundantly late - we speak not of five or ten minutes, but much more - and the person dies, among other things a person known on the island of San Pietro, Maria Bucci, of seventy years. You can die for many reasons, but not because a municipal administration, that of Carbonia, is careless and does not open the doors of the stadium, of the sports field, where a person is ill and is waiting to be rescued by the ambulance. I'm not going any further because there's a prosecutor's investigation going on. However, it seems correct to represent this episode to give a sign of closeness to both the family, and to all the Carlofortini residents of the island of San Pietro, as well as to give a general signal to the country that such events do not happen and to give a signal of disapproval and protest against the work of the mayor and the administration of Carbonia. Fortunately, the term of office of both the mayor and the administration will expire shortly and this will happen with such guilt, perhaps not concrete - I do not know - but certainly political and spiritual of not having opened a lock and of having caused the death of a person.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u90	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, today marks the twentieth anniversary of shocking events that represent a very black page for our Republic: a page remembered as the night of the Mexican butchery - as Vice-Chancellor Michelangelo Fournier called it - or as the biggest suspension of democracy and civil rights since the end of the Second World War. On 21 July 2001, on the occasion of the G8 in Genoa, after a dramatic day, the Forces of the Order broke into the Diaz-Pertini school in Genoa for what was to be a search and which instead degenerated into a sort of punitive expedition for peaceful demonstrators and journalists who were present there. There were 93 stopped, 61 ended up in the hospital draining blood, three in private prognosis and one in a coma. The latter was the English journalist Mark Cowell who had a broken hand, eight broken ribs, an internal hemorrhage - survived miraculously - whose only fault - if it can be said - was to be in front of the school Diaz-Pertini alone and unarmed, as happened to all those who were precisely inside the school. The intolerable acts of torture and humiliation continued at the Bolzano barracks in the following hours. Many members of the Forces of Order have managed to escape justice, not being recognizable, and in this regard the European Union had recommended to all the countries of the Union to equip the Forces of the order of identification elements. To this recommendation they have then fulfilled as many as 20 countries on the then 28, but unfortunately Italy has never accepted this invitation. On the contrary, some exponents, however apical, have been found guilty, but convictions have not been taken for granted even because of the indult. I will say more: none of the condemned have had career problems and some have also taken on very important positions, as if they had received a prize. On the contrary, the two prison nurses present at Bolzano and who denounced to the magistrates the acts of torture and torture to which they attended had to leave the job shortly after. The fact that it was tortured was also said by Prefect Gabrielli years later. In those days in Genoa there was a debate on what was the right model of development: if the energy-intensive model, which has harmful effects on the environment, were suitable; if it were right to adopt a wild globalization that caused enormous territorial and environmental imbalances, as well as social injustice, or to pursue what the G8 countries and the right who at the time were in power in Italy. We all know how it came to an end: the ecological transition is only beginning in these weeks, that is to say, twenty years behind the 2001 global proposals; they were right 20 years ago and the right-wings were wrong. [[Applause]] That is the truth of the facts. We hope that such events will no longer occur and we hope that Italy will be endowed with a law against torture, which will give the opportunity to identify the members of the Forces of the Order, precisely to guarantee the many - they are the vast majority - men and women of our police forces who carry out their work with competence, love and professionalism. We owe it to them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u93	ANGRISANI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the National Commission for the Integrated Education and Education System has recently approved the pedagogical lines for the integrated system 0-6 and it is reported that a few days ago the agreement in a unified conference for the multi-annual action plan was approved. The text of the pedagogical lines has been subjected to a wide range of public information and consultation before reaching the final draft. According to the Ministry it represents a pedagogical framework and the institutional organizational framework in which the integrated education system is located. A few days ago, the Association of Italian Teacher Teachers (APEI) sent a letter to the Minister of Education highlighting the importance of a pedagogical approach in the context of education for the whole age segment from zero to six years, supporting precisely the need to include in the professional roles, alongside girls and children, educational professionals. I believe it is essential for the Ministry to make these proposals in the development of the integrated system, ensuring full recognition of the contribution of the pedagogical professions through the choice of their use throughout the 0-6 segment. This is because graduates in the pedagogical field are the most able professionals to respond with awareness and competence to the educational needs of children and girls. For these reasons it is appropriate to include the figure of the educator of educational services for children not only in the nests, but also in the school of childhood, as the socio-pedagogic professional educator is a professional who works with all ages of life from zero to six years, he has graduated in education and training sciences. At the same time, it is necessary to entrust the pedagogical coordination of educational services and of the school of childhood to the figure of the pedagogist, who represents the greatest expert in child education, being precisely aware of the processes of children's development. The figure of the pedagogist also appears to be the one most appropriate to entrusting the function of promoting and enhancing parental skills. If, therefore, it was already necessary to incorporate this figure into the system, it is even more necessary in this period of epidemiological emergency, as there is a risk of harmful consequences for the development of the human personality. If in recent years we have reached a level of reflection and awareness on the theme of preschool education that is also sufficiently mature at the regulatory level, it is time to lay more solid foundations, so as soon as possible to arrive at the creation of an educational horizon in the 0-6 segment at the basis of a real integrated system. Without the inclusion and full employment of socio-pedagogical educators and pedagogists, figures whose paths of study are in line with each other, even in affinity with the educational paths of the teachers of the school of childhood, achieving the intended objective would be much more difficult and difficult, also in view of the best spending of the resources allocated, which amount to 309 million euros per year for the five-year period 2021-2025.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u96	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, on the pretext of calling for Question 4-04125, of 5 October 2020, with which I put the issue of accessibility by family members and visitors to the RSA. On 8 May this year, the Ministry of Health approved an order for family access and visitors. In this order, unfortunately, a number of interpretative uncertainties have remained, linked to the availability of staff and to the favourable conditions, which, in fact, have downloaded most of the decisions on the shoulders of the health director of the structures. This has meant, in most of the facilities, a lack of willingness to open to guests, visitors and family members. Since that order expires at the end of July of the current month, I am referring, on the pretext of the question I referred to earlier, to the Ministry of Health to issue, in the new order, more precise definitions, which do not discharge on the evaluation by the health director of the context conditions. This will lead - as has happened in recent months - to a largely different application of the order in the various structures and, in many cases, to reason more to protect the structure than the purpose of the order, namely to establish conditions and rules for the access of family members and visitors to the structures. This is also in view of the overall well-being of the guests of the same. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u97	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-349.ana.u98	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 22 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.22.
