ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10:36 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2437, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. The Presidency declares that amendments 1.20 and 8.0.1 are inadmissible and that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 1-b.0.2, 1-b.0.3, 1-b.0.4, 4.2, 4.4, 5.0.3, 16.0.3, 16.0.7 and 16.0.9. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of bill No 2437 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 121 of 10 September 2021, laying down urgent provisions for the investment and safety of infrastructure, transport and road traffic, for the functionality of the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, of the Higher Council for Public Works and of the National Agency for the Safety of Road and Motorway Infrastructures, in the Commission text identical to that approved by the House of Deputies. [[Comments. Ironic applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u6	Colleagues, it is understood that it is not a praiseworthy applause. The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 121, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. It was planned to commemorate the anniversary of the arrival in Rome of the Unknown Milite who left Aquileia a hundred years ago, but, as is well known, the Regulation imposes, immediately after the imposition of trust, a grave silence in the Chamber, so I cannot even give the floor to the President of the Fratelli d'Italia Group on the order of business. At the resumption of the work, after the Conference of the Leaders which is immediately convened, I will give the floor, however, to those who ask for it on the order of business and we will also find time for the commemoration. President Ciriani, I ask your forgiveness for not being able to give you the floor, but your opposition to the imposition of trust is so evident from the applause that perhaps every word would be superfluous. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10.45 a.m. and resumed at 11.09 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u7	The Conference of Leaders organised the discussion of the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law on sustainable infrastructure and mobility, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The discussion on trust, for which an hour has been attributed on the basis of specific requests from the Groups, will begin at the end of the commemoration on the 100th anniversary of the translation of the Unknown Milite. They will follow the explanations of vote and call you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u10	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I do not speak on the issue of trust, because it is a matter that we will discuss later and which belongs to the political controversy, which is also very justified in my view. Instead, my speech refers to an event that should unite everyone. I am sorry, since it was announced at the meeting of the group leaders, that many Members of this House, especially from the opposite hemicycle, were largely absent. The anniversary to which I refer is the centenary of the arrival in Rome of the body of the Unknown Milite. On October 28, one hundred years ago, 11 identical coffins were lined up in the Basilica of Aquileia, so that it was not possible to identify the origin of the soldiers who were guarded there, soldiers who fell in the symbolic places in the First World War, where our soldiers, against an army that was then the strongest in the world, the Austro-Hungarian one, had distinguished themselves by value, self-denial and sacrifice until death, to restore unity to our homeland, to complete that Risorgimento to which many Italians had longed. It was the Giolitti government in the last days of its life, before it fell for an overly narrow majority, that decided, again in 1921, that the body of an unknown soldier was kept and buried under the goddess Rome, in what from that moment on will be called the Altar of the Homeland, which is the Victorian. Let's go back to that October 28th. A mother, symbol of the mothers of many fallen, known and above all unknown, who had given her life in the trenches, but also in the sea and in the places of battle, Maria Bergamas, crossed before those 11 coffins, of which she did not even know the origin, certainly not the name of the fallen soldiers, and stopped without indecisions in front of one of them: that was the chosen coffin, a metal coffin with inside the body of a soldier and outside a helmet, a tricolor flag and a rifle. It was placed on a cannon hut, still kept in the museum, and on a train began a slow and silent march that would take it to Rome. In that sorrowful but victorious Italy something never saw again in Italian history was manifested: along the route of that train thousands and thousands of people approached the tracks on their knees, recognizing to that Unknown Milite the honours that all Italy owed and owes to those who were molded for the Homeland, for independence, for freedom and for the unity of our nation. Maria Bergamas had a son, her name was Antonio; he had fallen, he had been buried, but then, in the cemetery where he had been buried, there had been a bombing, so it had become impossible to recognize the individual bodies. Maria Bergamas also approached the other coffins, which were and are still buried in the cemetery near the Basilica of Aquileia, but the body of the Unknown Milite who was preserved with love at the crucial point of the Victorian, Altar of the Homeland, still today represents or should represent that love of Italy for his children, for his own history, for his own culture, for his own freedom, for his own independence, for his own sovereignty. To the Unknown Milite, President, to the men and women with the stars that still honour our nation, and that in my opinion are the best youth of this Italy, goes our persevering, total love and recognition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u13	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, I very much appreciated Senator La Russa's speech, especially for tones (usually more fiery), perhaps it is today's anniversary. I would point out, however, that when he talks about absence in the Chamber, he may not have looked in front of his desks: they will all be outside in front of the television set; whatever it is, let's move on. Today, November 4, we celebrate the Unknown Milite: an expression coined following the First World War to identify all those who lost their lives in war without ever being identified; the most solemn form to indicate the sacrifice and the greatest dedication to their country. A fundamental passage of our history, left as a legacy to all of us and which will remain eternal even for future generations. Today it has been a hundred years since the symbolically decided to tumulate the Vittoriano of Rome the remains of one of the many, too many of our soldiers who fell at the front. The remains of the nameless soldier were put on a special train, which provided for a stopover of a few minutes at over 100 stations in Italy. An initiative that stirred great emotion among the crowds, who knelt at the passage of the train empathy in the heartbreaking pain of a son or mother, managing to unite the whole country. It is a message of unity that is all the more current and remains sculpted in our history, unchanged before the passing of time. Today, compared to a century ago, I find many similarities: even today, as then, we are facing an Italy to rebuild, after having passed a terrible period. The Covid, in fact, can certainly be compared to a war for the number of victims that in Italy has recently exceeded the figure of 132,000. Even to their dearest affections I want to dedicate today a moving thought. With regard to today's celebration, I believe it is essential that many more opportunities are created, especially for our young people, to remember the most recent past in our country; first in schools, where I believe it is essential to teach how to keep the memory alive, because today we are what we have been and tomorrow we will be what we are today. Finally, I should like to say very humbly to one of our colleagues who was part of the first parliamentary term in 1950 - although for a very short period of time -: Carlo Alberto Salusturi, the great Trilussa, appointed senator for life by President Luigi Einaudi. With bitter and macabre irony, the Roman poet called himself senator in death; for a long time sick, he missed twenty days after his appointment. In 1915 Trilussa composed "From a hundred years" and today, in the memory of the fallen and the Unknown, it is worth going to rediscover that text and enjoy it all. A text that I attach to my speech so that it can be incorporated in the shorthand report. To our fallen, known and unknown, may our gratitude and their sacrifice be remembered forever! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u16	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating the feast of our Armed Forces: exactly one hundred and three years have passed since the entry into force of the armistice of Villa Giusti that ended the First World War, sanctioning our victory, while one hundred years have passed since the tumulation in 1921 at the Victorian of the Unknown Milite. The memory of this fallen soldier, anonymous and silent, imposes some reflections on us. The first reflection is that on the supreme sacrifice of life that we ask the members of our Armed Forces and that we take for granted perhaps a little too often. We asked the unknown soldier something more: what Clausewitz called "the fog of war," unpredictability took away the name and face of that soldier. Our duty therefore to remember the fallen, which is the only way for mortals to keep alive those who, as the alpine say, have gone forward, for the Unknown Milite is denied, because there is no name and there is no face. There is therefore an absolute sacrifice, that of the loss of memory, but not a sacrifice for the country: it is not the sacrifice for mountains, lakes and rivers. You have to use a different vocabulary because it is a different substance. We sacrifice ourselves for our own family, for our own community, for our own history, for our own traditions, for our own values [[Applause]] , for their religious faith. Synthetically land of fathers, Homeland, has this meaning and that is what we ask. We ask, precisely, to remember the sacrifice for the Homeland, a sacrifice that asks all of us - and I make one last reflection - especially to us as an institution, not simply a memory. Celebrating and commemorating are very important words, but they look like empty talk, if there are no facts. When, therefore, in the Commission or in this House, in order to remain in practice, we talk about Defence and the Armed Forces - as you know, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in a peaceful world and no freedom is taken for granted - let us remember concretely to protect the shield and sword of our freedoms, of our lives, of our identity: the Armed Forces. And how can we do that? Not only with words, but also with deeds, measures and appropriations. I therefore call on all of us to defend those who defend us, to defend those who protect those values that we all share in words here. I would therefore like to remind you today and thank all the fallen, not only those of the wars of independence or of the wars of the twentieth century, but also those of contemporaryism, of our Republic, from that of Congo in the 1960s to those in Lebanon in the 1980s, in Somalia in the 1990s and in Iraq and Afghanistan in the 21st century. [[Applause]] The invitation is above all to us: we are actually supporting the armed forces and we are talking serenely about defence appropriations, which does not mean appropriations for the armed forces, but appropriations to defend our values. This is the meaning of the sacrifice of the Unknown Milite, at least in my vision. [[Applause.]] 11:24 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u19	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, thank you for the words I heard you just now in your role as Senator of the Brothers of Italy. Your Group has called for this commemoration, which I believe is important. As a Democratic Party we had an important meeting, which is still going on: that is why, having been decided on this commemoration at the last moment, my colleagues in the Group are still approaching. I ran to the House because I didn't want to and I couldn't miss it at this moment. We are remembering today, November 4, the day of celebration of the Armed Forces and celebration of national unity, the hundred years from that path so painful, but so important for Italy of that time, that he made that train, traveling the whole country with tens, hundreds of thousands of people who in each station bowed down in front of it. It was not easy to decide how to make that memorial: it was a matter of deciding who, for example, was responsible for choosing the body. Not all nations have chosen a mother; indeed, only Italy has chosen a mother. There were nations that chose a general, others chose a military decorated with military valor, and I think some chose an orphan. Italy, which made a commission to decide how to give the greatest honor and to whom that choice was due, chose a mother, who, with the torment in her heart for the loss of her beloved son, shivering with grief in front of those coffins but with determination chose what was to be the coffin of the unknown soldier, unknown, but who represented all the dead of that war, especially those who remained without name. And you know how much greater the pain of those who cannot even cry on the grave of those who are no longer there. The moment was intense. At the stations, as we said, at the passage of this train all the people bowed down; everyone arrived with a bouquet of flowers, with a memory, and each at that moment not only remembered the collective pain, but also the pain of every single family, of every single person, the loved ones lost, the mourning, the wounds of those who had returned from the war but could no longer carry out their duties. It was a war that had terrible dimensions of tragedy, and tragedy of the people; there had never been before the First World War a moment when indeed all the people involved in a conflict, with that terrible war of trench, with those assaults that then came back, with those continuous deaths and those valiant who threw themselves out of the trenches and, knowing that they were facing who was shooting, followed the order and went on. That moment of collective pain was an important glue for our country; it was essential to recognize the sacrifice of our heroes in arms and make it a moment of collective tears, but also of national identity. It is very nice that, on the occasion of this centenary, the Presidency of the Republic, with the collaboration of the Ministry of Defence, has organized many demonstrations to remember this moment. A historical re-enactment has been made; the train has been rebuilt as it was - obviously with the help of the State Railways - and has retraced those stages reporting the memory of what happened. On November 2, a mass was celebrated in which the crown was blessed, in memory of all the military dead in the exercise of duty, and this crown was brought by the President of the Republic to Redipuglia in a solemn and intense ceremony, in front of that monument so imposing, so gray, mindful of those tragedies and those dead. I think it is important here too, in the high place of parliamentary representation, to remember this, because remembering is always fundamental: there is no future if you do not have roots in the past, and history is something fundamental to understand also where to go. Along with this, we remember today, November 4, our Armed Forces. As Article 52 of our Constitution says, the defence of the Homeland is a sacred duty and our Armed Forces swear on the Republic, the Constitution and its laws; they are therefore a very important heritage to be proud of, a heritage of all Italy and of all parliamentary forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u20	Thank you, Senator Pinotti. I listened very carefully to her, because I know that her words come from the heart.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u23	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I too, on behalf of Italy Viva, would like to express my deep thanks for the fact that today, in this House, we join in the commemoration, on the day of the Armed Forces, of the centenary of the institution of the Unknown Milite. I believe that we must acknowledge the fact that it created an instrument through which to allow a kind of elaboration of mourning to the entire country; a country that had suffered, during the First World War, the loss of as many as one million and 240,000 young men (this is the estimated number of victims), over 200,000 of whom remained nameless, so that they could not be identified. So over 200,000 families remained with dead children without the certainty that the corpses were of their own relatives. I believe that with the establishment of this symbolic figure - an Unknown Milite who was even brought to Rome with the historic train that is now being used again to repeat that route, through those many stages in even smaller places of our country - it was possible to give families the possibility to have in some way a referent, an instrument of compassion and comfort. Beyond the fact that already at the time we tried to make also a narrative - unfortunately - propagandistic of that story, I believe that we absolutely must not have elements of opposition or criticism; I think instead we must all be compact, united and choral, just to witness the importance of giving concreteness to the image of a pain that involved so many families then and that, still today, sees us united in the memory, among other things, of young people who were often also expression of the poorest, simplest classes. It is a time when the country is united, today also witnessing the gratitude of citizenship and of the country towards women and men of the Armed Forces. All the more reason, therefore, today, once again, from our Senate begins a voice of great recognition of the work, sacrifice and commitment that women and men of our Armed Forces, even in the name of that Unknown Milite who represents the many fallen of the First World War, allow us to bring unitedly, in order to make the voice of the institutions also heard. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u26	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank the Government for its presence. Colleagues, in the family of each of us there is a story - sometimes more stories - of boys left for the front. I remember the last class called to the front that wore that uniform, the Italian uniform, and brought with honor the weapons: the 1899 class. They were children and, as has been mentioned in this House, they came from the most disparate parts of our country and were mostly from extremely humble families. People who worked the earth, called to the front to defend, as was said then, the sacred borders of the Homeland. A word that today appears, perhaps, demodé, but we must not think that that tragedy belongs only at that time, because other conflicts, unfortunately, are infecting the Planet. Francis Fukuyama, a few years ago, in his unforgotten book, "The end of history" is denied: history does not end; history, unfortunately, tragically continues, with its aberrations and tragedies, and one must also be ready for these events. For this reason we must remember, with a feeling of extreme and strong gratitude, not only the date of 4 November, the Feast of the Armed Forces, but the hundred years of the Unknown Milite, who represents them all, the fallen of that terrible European civil war. Perhaps we won that war, but losing peace, because World War II was nothing but the tragic continuation of World War I. I recalled at the beginning that in the history of each of us, sometimes, old memories emerge, packed with a bow: I happened to find old photographs. Of my grandparents, one was a cavalry captain of the Austro-Hungarian army, just as an uncle died on the Karst always with the Austro-Hungarian army. Your story is a very tender one. He was seventeen years old, he was at the front and had won, after many months of front line, a license. He was on his way home to Bolzano. He felt that his department was attacked: he went back up to defend his comrades and lost his life. My father's grandfather, on the other hand, was a medical captain in World War I. So I grew up with two different identities, if we want to, but in reality it is a unique identity, because that tragedy really struck the whole of Europe in a very strong way. Today, the memory of the Unknown Milite in every city, with his passage and the transfer from Aquileia to Rome, is, in my opinion, a due act, a tribute that we must pay to those young people, who will have forever sixteen, seventeen, twenty years. Hard times for mothers when the telegram announcing a death arrived. So, a feeling that's not just patriotic. There is not only the Homeland, but, at least in me, there is also the "matria." It is a concept that historians are highlighting. Perhaps it belongs to small identities, which are, however, also true identities. It is our duty, therefore, with the solemnity due to them, to remember today all the victims of those days. There's a phrase that struck me and wonderfully reminds me of that time. He refers to a soldier, who says: behind me they are all brothers, even if I don't see them and I don't know them well. Let us honor this date, with that true feeling that belongs to all those who feel indebted to this generation who paid a very high tribute to freedom and peace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u29	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to thank those who wanted to put this important point on the agenda of the memory of the transfer of the Unknown Milite to the Altar of Homeland. My speech will be a brief one, since I can only find myself with everything that has been said so far by my colleagues about the importance of this moment, which must surely be taken to find itself around a strong symbol of the unity of this country. I intervened because the Group for Autonomies is typically a Group in which the so-called love of homeland towards the central state might appear more lukewarm, but that is not the case. We have always tried to make it clear that we care about our differences and peculiarities, but I think it is important to find ourselves, also on our part, around these strong symbols. I intervene above all to remember how the Aosta Valley, which I represent, was the seat of the 4th Alpine Regiment of the Aosta Battalion and this department was, in the First World War, the only Alpine battalion decorated with the gold medal to military valor, decoration that was given to the war flag of the 4th Alpine Regiment simply because it was one of the most decimated battalions. Therefore, to be decorated with the gold medal meant to have suffered so many losses, the death of so many boys. Even in Val d'Aosta, which is my region, if you go to see the tombstones in all the municipalities you will find an incredible number of young people who lost their lives in that world conflict. We too, therefore, find ourselves at this moment remembering this episode, especially as an eternal warning to young people to repudiate all wars and to remember that on the other hand if we have peace today it is because many years ago our grandparents and great-grandparents sacrificed themselves to death. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u30	[[The President stands up and with him the whole House.]] I believe that at the end of the speeches that have wished to recall the centenary of the arrival of the Unknown Milite in Rome, it is right, as the Chamber of Deputies did, to dedicate to the Unknown Milite, but also to all the fallen of the First World War, indeed to the fallen of all wars, without distinction of uniform, color, Nation, a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u31	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u32	Mr President, we note that the Government has once again put its trust in a measure. We take note of this, but we do not agree that we should continue along this path, especially with the use of this instrument, even when, in the various measures, there are very few amendments (in this case thirty), and they could be voted on in a short time. It is true that there was a request for a secret vote, but this is Parliament, gentlemen: there are votes, there are secret votes, there are regulations, this is democracy. [[Applause]] Continuing on the road of always putting trust in all measures is tantamount to giving the feeling of wanting essentially to avoid Parliament, which is made up of representatives of the people, as if it would become a kind of annoyance to go to Parliament to deal with the various issues. We do not consider this to be right and correct. In some cases, in the face of numerous amendments and a certain type of obstruction, it may also be justified; but the use of such an instrument on all measures does not seem useful. We ask ourselves a question: where will this continuous desire to expel Parliament lead us? See that the insuffering is not only of the League, that maybe it is not able to hide certain things, because, perhaps for extreme transparency, we are not at all afraid to say what we think. Insuffering is in all political groups. I repeat, in all political groups. [[Applause]] Then we make a point: in anticipation of the election of the President of the Republic, continuing to fuel this insuffering does not seem to us a good strategy and does not seem to us a good move. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u33	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u34	Mr President, I agree with the reasoning put forward by the leader of the Romeo League, whom I welcome and agree with. Of course, I would also like you to draw the consequences from this absurd recourse to a vote of confidence. Mr President, I am one of those who proudly and proudly helped bring down the Zan bill last week, and for this reason I was also heavily threatened, so much so that I had to file a complaint with the Postal Police. Well, what's going on today? At the moment when we proudly blocked that bill, at the moment when we proudly prevented it from reaching a criminal law of the inner state of mind, as clearly stated by our leader in the Balboni Justice Commission, after we blocked that bill, we find ourselves - be careful, citizens must know - faced with those same issues, contained in a decree-law that is called infrastructure and transport. So the Draghi Government is complicit in going against Parliament's will, which was made clear last week, by letting in from the window what was brought out or which had been prevented from entering the door. Mr President, we wonder how it is possible that, among the changes made by the House, paragraph 4-a introduced in Article 1 provides for the prohibition of advertising with sexist messages, gender stereotypes or discriminatory messages in relation to sexual orientation. In essence, a mother who cares for the child could be considered a gender stereotype and could be prevented from representation. But, gentlemen, first of all, we are against the will of Parliament which has already been expressed and, secondly, this is a decree-law on transport. The presidency of the Senate has repeatedly declared that amendments on very specific issues are inadmissible, while an amendment has been approved in the House, which will therefore become part of a legal text, which expressly includes issues that have nothing to do with transport and infrastructure. Perhaps paragraph 4-a - I say this to those who tabled that amendment to the House - could provide for a rule that would not enrich some Italian family on the case of motorways. Other than to reproduce the Zan bill in a transport decree! [[Applause]] So, Mr President, we ask the Draghi Government not to be an accomplice to these things; we ask the parties of the centre-right, to those who opposed and prevented a shameful law - and I repeat - what was the Zan bill, which did not defend any civil rights, but created discrimination in those who thought otherwise, to have the courage to say enough to this indiscriminate appeal to the vote of confidence. No more teasing Parliament! There were 30 amendments and neither did you want to deal with them in Parliament! President Draghi, this remains a parliamentary republic. I do not know if anyone has in mind making her President of the Republic while also maintaining the role of President of the Council, but for now I invite her to remember that Parliament has prerogatives to which we do not intend to abdicate, and that Brothers of Italy will remain firm in defending Parliament, its prerogatives and the freedom of Italians against any authoritarianism that we do not accept and will never accept. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u35	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u36	Mr President, first of all, I also want to honour my little honour on 4 November, the day of the Armed Forces. I have asked for confidence because I want to point out not so much to the few Members who are basically thinking about their own affairs, but that it may remain with the acts of Parliament that, in the end, this measure too has been trusted. So far nothing new, but there is something special about this measure. In fact, it is affirming a devastating principle regarding the formation of laws. Colleagues, it is said that some of the rules of this provision must be converted into law with confidence because and although the presuppositions are sealed. President. - I refer to Article 7 of the infrastructure decree. This article refers to a decision of the European Commission that the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic have requested to read. The Government of the 8th Senate Commission responded through its Undersecretary for Transport that Parliament cannot see and cannot know that act. Colleagues, we are transforming an act into law on the basis of a assumption that we cannot know. Article 7 on the substance is not innocent. With it, in fact, the bypass of Article 2112 of the Civil Code is carried out. It is basically said that even when a company is sold, workers do not pass on to the acquiring entrepreneur if this sale of a company we call it otherwise, that is, we call it the sale of parts, the sale of compendiums, the sale of parts of the compendium. In essence, we pretend that it is the sale of parts and not of a company and, therefore, we avoid that it passes also the contract of the employee of the company. It seems little or useless, but in this way it totally mortifies the right of the worker; union relations are cancelled. This is a paradigm that are inserting into our system through a note that translates a secret act into law. It is ignoble; it is a violation of the Constitution in the formation of the law and it is a violation of the fundamental rights of the worker in existence. It is a paradigm that is created and that will extend tomorrow to the branch of company handling, the day after tomorrow to the maintenance and then, evidently, to all the relationships of work. So we will return to the nineteenth century, when the worker was alone and naked, with his own needs, his own family and his own needs, in front of a master employer, who can impose the worst conditions, according to his own free will. What is worse is that today, in this case, the entrepreneur is the Italian State, which no longer allows even 30 people to manifest before the places of power, in front of Montecitorio. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I am about to conclude. There is a very small number of Alitalia workers here, who have been told to go and demonstrate in 30 to Piazza San Giovanni, because they cannot come here or to Montecitorio. See, then, the picture and context of the violation of the Constitution, the violation of fundamental labour rights and the violation of the right of demonstration. I therefore ask Members to give serious thought to what we are doing. I will vote against confidence for all these reasons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u37	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u38	Mr President, in my speech I will refer back to what I have already said at yesterday's sitting, but a little more in-depth. However, I would like to express my deep regret at what has already been said by my fellow Members about the impossibility of exercising democracy, which has been so much praised. Unfortunately, everyday life often does not detect the facts that become increasingly critical, precisely because of their everyday life. In reality, there are events that are happening in these days, which are really perplexing, such as the provision opposite to the Triestine protester, which has asked a few questions with great care and has also been the catalyst of the attention and malaise common: this too, however, goes into disarray. With today's position of the question of trust on the decree-law under consideration, the lightness of the Government is confirmed: I will immediately enter into the matter, to explain and make understand what I am referring to. Among the amendments tabled to Article 16 concerning the extension of the structure and the function of the extraordinary commissioners for post-seismal reconstruction, there is one in particular, which had already been submitted to the Chamber of Deputies by my colleagues Varchi, Trancassini and Prisco, who was presented here by Brothers of Italy, with the signature of Senators Ruspandini and Totaro and myself. This amendment concerns in particular the extension of the legislation used in Central Italy for post-seism reconstruction also to other territories of Italy. The amendment refers to paragraph 2 of Article 11 of Decree-Law No 76 of 2020 entitled, in the words: "Acceleration and simplification of public reconstruction in areas affected by seismic events". The choice not to approve the amendments already in the Chamber of Deputies and now to repeat this attitude, indirectly sends the message that the earthquakes are different and the intervention that must be made in Italy and that should be unique is actually differentiated according to the geographical areas. Not only that; is an earthquake an earthquake or depends on the geographical extent of the damage? Is it necessary for there to be sacrificial victims in order to consider it to be sacrificial and therefore to require immediate intervention? 12:00 p.m. (Dragos follow). If you go to see the aforementioned article of Decree-Law No 76, as laid down, governing the powers of the extraordinary commissioners, it also provides for the possibility of naming sub commissioners. It is as if it responds to what was the objective set at the beginning of the legislature also by the current head of the National Civil Protection that had then dealt with the technical table for the post-seismal reconstruction of the department Casa Italia, formed within the framework of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The aim was to make a framework law, therefore a law of intervention to be adapted to all the national territory. I repeat, however, that as formulated, the text makes a difference. In fact, we are talking about the most affected landowners when we could have simply talked about lands affected by the earthquake. Beyond the personal report, I come to the substance of the question that is political. The Movimento 5 Stars that, for example, in Catania and province appointed the commissioner for reconstruction, why doesn't it allow Catania to rebuild post-sysm in an accelerated manner? Why don't you allow your extension? Today, when we vote on the measure we are debating, we will be responsible for the situation and we will have to take all the responsibility for it. It is a real regret, but it is also confirmation - and I am sorry if I go on personal terms - that I have made the right choice, Mr President, and that I have gone on to the opposition with knowledge of the facts. The measure that we refer to and which we ask the extension of, in addition to providing for the appointment of the two commissioners, extends the reconstruction involving also the Italian Bishops' Conference and the Ministry of Culture. It is therefore a completely composite measure and is part of the reform of the procurement code. In the amendment that Brothers of Italy also submitted to the Senate we ask for the extension of the legislation also to other territories; not only the areas of Central Italy affected by the earthquake of 2016, but also Campobasso and the nine municipalities of the province of Catania. These are nine Pedemontan municipalities which, among other things, are suffering economic consequences, with particular reference to small and medium-sized enterprises. You know very well that it is a territory in which there is a great deal of work in agriculture and tourism. Let's think about the production of honey, the wineries and more. Without undersize or in any case disregarding what Senator Malan said yesterday and today by Senator De Bertoldi about the capitious and creeping method of putting everything that Parliament has decided in the opposite direction through the position of a matter of trust. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u39	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the time I am allowed to tell you what happened yesterday in the 12th Commission. I am referring, in other words, to the short and sad history of a duty and a right denied, that which pertains to the Senate of the Republic, and more generally to Parliament, to investigate with a special Commission on the facts pertaining to the emergency of the Covid-19. I am not going out of topic with respect to the debate on the imposition of the question of trust, because the two events have the same root, that is to deny also the evidence in front of the reason (of course not of State, nor of Government) of the holding of a majority that is not standing, if it were not for the impossibility to do anything else and to do something good for this nation. In particular, as colleagues know perfectly well, the Covid-19 affair has cost us more than 132,000 victims (my thoughts go to their families) and more than 200 billion additional public debt, that we will have to repay the new and future generations, and it is not clear where all this huge mass of money has gone to end even by the two police agencies. We have cut our GDP by more than nine percentage points as a result of the closure measures required by the inconsistencies and incompleteness of the health response to the Covid emergency. Only in 2020 did we see more than 300,000 VAT matches cease. We could go on with the numbers to explain to colleagues the absurdity of a decision that arrives at the epilogue of a long path aimed at denying the possibility of investigating by the Senate of the Republic what happened in the management of this emergency. Two circumstances aggravate the issue. The first is that all the great countries of Europe have set up committees of inquiry, some of which have already completed their work and handed back to the parliamentary assemblies the fruit of their work: I refer to the United Kingdom, Spain, France. Even some regions (the largest but also some small ones) have set up Regional Committees of Inquiry on the response of regional health services to the emergency Covid-19. Then there is more evidence. In each parliamentary term (at least in the last four or five) a Commission of Inquiry into the National Health Service has been set up, which is considered essentially permanent in the management of a parliamentary term, such as the anti-mafia Commission or the waste cycle, precisely in order to investigate the management of a sensitive and sensitive matter such as the health of our fellow citizens. Therefore, already before the emergency Covid had been filed, at the signature of all the Groups, requests for the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into the National Health Service. I would remind you that it is about forty-one years since its establishment this year. Therefore, the set-up and architecture of the National Health Service is being reformed in many parts and all this is generally unknown to this Parliament. There are measures, such as this morning's, which do not concern health but are packaged in the same way, and they are deposited "take or leave" without debate, putting the question of trust on 30 amendments, as Mr De Bertoldi said just now. Compared to this evidence comes the Covid; already when the theme of the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the National Health Service was mature comes the Covid, evidently to aggravate the picture and to accentuate the need to see what happens in the overall matter of emergency management and in particular in the response of health containment measures. Finally, on yesterday's day, we arrive at the opening of the curtain of this theater that has worn out in the Health Commission, also with the participation - with great regret I must say - of compressaries and consummate actors of colleagues of the center-right, in order to prevent the Commission from investigating the Covid affair, because - this is the paradox, President - the emergency is under way. So, I'm gonna say, at least find another one. Don't you want to be honest about the fact that there are no papers in order, so you can't go and investigate the thousand dark facts of this affair, starting with the contracts for the supply of vaccines, secreted? I'll say one, but I could say a hundred. Find more excuses, find more arguments. You do not come before the citizens with this argument, because it is clear that no one can understand what is happening and the distance between this House and the parliamentarians of the Republic and the citizens. On 2 November, on the occasion of the day of the deceased, an association of deceased family members for Covid who came from Bergamasca was sent to Piazza Santi Apostoli to express their right arguments, far from the clamour of the centers of power. These family members have asked for only one thing, for Parliament to investigate the Covid, what has happened and what is happening. We are absolutely deaf to this heartfelt and pressing request. This is really shameful. With regard to this, I would like to draw the House's attention to what will happen in the coming days, because Brothers of Italy asked the Government to come to the House to discuss this matter and this request. I call everyone to a greater sense of responsibility and awareness of our role as senators of the Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, who is certainly well represented, but since a minister comes to put trust, perhaps if he also listened to what the Senate says, since the Senate is deprived of any opportunity to intervene, it would not be bad. [[Applause]] On 23 July last, not long ago, three months ago, the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, wrote a letter - it is a faculty provided for by the Constitution - to the Presidents of the Chamber and the Senate about the urgent decree. That letter cited the Committee for the Law of the Chamber of Deputies, which called on the legislator to avoid mixing and overlapping in the same legislative act of heterogeneous objects and purposes. The Head of State recalled - indeed, he recalls, why it should be current; it should be a message addressed every day to Parliament and the Government - that the decrees-laws must present an object as defined and circumscribed as possible by subject matter; in cases where homogeneity is pursued through the indication of a purpose, it must be avoided that the aim is extremely wide. The Head of State goes on to note that: in the conversion procedure the amending activity must be limited by the matter, or by the purpose originally object of the measure, as defined by the Government. Finally, he recalled, along with many other observations that we can certainly not read all here, that with the judgment n. 32 of 2014, the Constitutional Court, declaring illegitimate some norms introduced in the conversion of a decree-law, has emphasized that the law of conversion follows an iter that is justified in the light of its nature of law functionalized to the stabilization of a provision having force of law, and that from its connotation derive the limits to the amendmentability of the decree-law; the law of conversion cannot therefore open itself to any further content. This is the message of the President of the Republic that the whole majority and of course we also respect deeply, but the majority is usually particularly keen to profess absolute adherence to the words of the President of the Republic. However, today we are faced with a very comprehensive decree-law - a dossier of hundreds of pages - which deals with urgent measures relating to the investment and safety of infrastructure, transport and road traffic. In this draft law on infrastructure safety, an ideological rule is inserted to limit freedom of expression, on the pretext that this restriction is exercised on roads and vehicles. This is an absolutely unacceptable measure, introduced as a betrayal and sneak, so much so that the same proposers of the amendment submitted to the Chamber of Deputies (the Presidents of the Environment and Transport Commissions), both of the Democratic Party, have not even explained the measure, except to change it to make it worse during its examination. This incredible limitation to freedom of expression is very dangerous because it is left, in one verse, to interpretation, and for another, to preventive censorship that will make all advertising dealers. The latter, in order to avoid problems, will be even more severe than a judge or any authority appointed to rule on what is sexist advertising or on what, in advertising content, could offend someone in his religious beliefs (for example, expressing convictions of another religious belief), or on what can offend someone with respect to gender identity. A concept, the latter, widely criticized when included in the Zan bill, also by those who supported the rest of that provision (which we did not support). Well, the amendment has been incorporated into a measure that has nothing to do with it; it has been approved in the Commission in the House and then there has been the inevitable confidence. This is particularly serious given that the House is the only branch of Parliament where the measure could really be discussed, since we have arrived here - as they say - armored, and so the debate in this House has been prevented. The Senate assumed that there was an inemissability because there were a few days left; in fact, the amendments could have been examined; the decree-law expires next Tuesday, so there would be five days for a further passage to the House to eliminate this reproach, this abuse, this mockery at the will of the Senate, and in particular of the 154 senators who, a week ago, voted not to continue the examination of the draft law Zan. Of those 154 senators, however, 133 are part of the majority: 21 were we senators of Brothers of Italy, but the other 133, I repeat, are part of the majority and, with this ignoble imposition of the question of trust, will be obliged to vote favorably. In fact there is no obligation, nothing happens, you can also vote against, but it is clear that it is a particularly challenging act not to vote for the government supported by the majority of which you are a member, with representation in the Executive and in parliamentary work. Well, with confidence, we want to force 133 Members of many political groups to vote in favour. It is not only the center-right, in fact, who voted to interrupt the examination of the Zan bill, as the numbers clearly say. There were at least 20 senators from the center-left who voted in this direction: Democratic Party, Italy Viva, Movimento 5 Stars, For the Autonomies, we don't know, but at least 20 were there. [[Applause]] It is therefore a mockery also for them, a ridicule to them and to the people whom they, like all of us, represent. When you make these decisions, it is uncivilized to let them pass and then smuggle them as great decisions of civilization. If you have these convictions, you have to make them face-to-face and not close your mouth once again to all the senators, especially those of the majority. As the Brothers of Italy Group, in fact, we speak the same, exercising a patriotic and responsible operation and we can tell the truth. Unfortunately, in the majority, however, there is this constraint, there is this difficulty. However, shutting your mouth in this way is a very unworthy thing: I repeat, it is a distraction to the role of Parliament and to the Constitution which entrusts Parliament with the task of making laws and not of being just as a letterhead to the Government that adopts the decree-laws and then has its parliamentarians incorporate rules that have nothing to do with it, finally putting the question of trust, both in the House and in the Senate, for which in practice everything was decided by the fifty parliamentarians of the House Commission and for the rest it was no longer possible to do anything at all. As my fellow Members have said - Senator Drago and Senators Zaffini and De Bertoldi - there is here a whole series of things that all go in the same direction: crushing and compressing the rights of Parliament and workers, with the bypass, as has been said by others, of Article 2112 of the Civil Code, which guarantees workers in the case of company transfer, is a very serious thing. Out of curiosity, being a philologist of origin, I went to see when article 2112 of the civil code was approved, which is very modern: we talk about company transfer, so I was convinced that it was recent. It was approved in 1942: in practice it remained unchanged, except for a small technical change in 1990. Today the Government cancels it, damaging the rights of Alitalia's workers, and tomorrow who knows how many other companies, with an urgent measure on which Parliament cannot discuss. They follow the unionists with the sheet of the street, who cannot enter Rome, although they have completely peaceful intentions; they follow the forbidden demonstrations, moved and deviated very far from the government building, which must not have the trouble of those who claim and demand respect for their rights as citizens and workers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u43	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u44	Mr President, in my time I will make two references: one to the procedure for approving this decree and the other to the facts, to the substance. I cannot help but repeat myself about the manner in which I have spoken on this point at other times, on which other Members have also said. However, I believe that it is absolutely essential to bring to the attention of citizens and Italians the very serious constitutional change in fact that has become increasingly difficult to define and stabilize in recent decades. This was because our Constitution has very precise rules so that it can be changed and, therefore, the constitutional approval rules are a difficult process. There is Article 138 which, in the previous legislature, was also tried to eliminate, to modify, because then there is always the danger that constitutional reform will go to the attention of the Italian people and submit to referendums. So it has happened that a constitutional change in fact has taken place in recent decades. Yesterday, in an interesting press conference promoted by Senator De Falco, lawyer Anna Falcone said very simply - sometimes the simple sentences come more directly - that Parliament should control the Government: this is the basis of our Constitution, it is architecture; several times he has spoken of architecture, because it is a building that is in balance, that is based on the division of powers to establish democracy; all words that we make use of and abuse very widely, because in reality Parliament does not control anything anymore. The functions of the Chambers, which should support and give confidence, have long since been those of the Executive Controller. I repeat: Parliament, i.e. those who go from this side of the House to the other where Members sit who have positions of which I do not share almost anything except these statements, represents for the time being almost all the Italians in part, net of so many manipulations on the part of political propaganda. Instead, the government represents only one part and, therefore, must be controlled by all Italians. Well, that doesn't happen anymore. For anything - and I can tell you quite rightly that this also applies to draft laws of parliamentary initiative - government control is always and in any case sought. For all the opinions that the Commissions express on the acts of the Government - now we are reduced to giving opinions - we are asking the Government whether the expression that we used in our opinion is appropriate; so it is the Government that tells us what we can tell them. In addition, with the cut in the number of parliamentarians and a proportional electoral law that will no longer be done, this will be final. I would like to add one more thing, and I apologise, Mr President, for extending my speaking time. The very serious thing about this measure, which we had in the Commission for four hours and in the Commission responsible for forty-eight hours, is Article 7, which - it has been said, but I also say this - is able to circumvent Article 2112 of the Civil Code on the Protection of Workers and Trade Union Relations. A very dangerous precedent is created, because it liquidates one of the most important sectors of our country - to date Ilva workers are about 8,000 - with the article of a decree-law on which trust is placed. It has already been thought several times to overcome the fact that in the sale of a company those who acquire must also take the contracts of the workers. But the method and deception have been found: those that are entire compartments are broken down into individual goods. Therefore, Berlusconi's attempt, stopped by the Court of Justice in 2008, and Renzi's attempt, stopped by the Supreme Court, today pass with a vote of confidence. This is extremely serious and it is also an aberration that benefits other foreign states and other territories, Lufthansa and Linate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u45	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u48	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, once again a branch of Parliament has to talk about the work done by colleagues in the other House without any possibility of intervening on the measure. All this continues to me - I always say it and I repeat it - to seem absurd. If it is true that there is so much to be done from here to the end of the year, it is not possible to dismiss such important measures in such a hasty manner. Even today, the only thing that can be done is to greet the work of colleagues in the House, who have brought significant improvements to a complex and ambitious decree-law: complex because it provides interventions from the highway sector to the water sector, from the railway to the maritime one; ambitious because - on the one hand - it aims to simplify and - on the other - looks at the issue of safety and the need to stimulate sustainable mobility. In this context there are many novelties worthy of note, from interventions on the road code, with the tightening of sanctions, to those on the parking lot, with an eye to those categories for which the use of the car, more than a choice, is a necessity, like women in pregnancy, families with small children and disabled people; from the attention for pedestrians to the funding to the municipalities for the safety of urban cycling mobility; from the rules on the safety of wildlife and stray animals to those for urban decoration, with the removal of abandoned waste; from the rules on road haulage to the first true discipline on the use of scooter cars, which are changing mobility, especially in large urban centres, but which required legislation on speed, against wild parking, on the use of helmet for children and, in the perspective, on the obligation of insurance for civil liability. But even more important is the impulse that is given to the unblocking of the yards, in order to put back to the center those works on which Italy has lost too much time and that, instead, are an essential element for the restart of the Country. Here we play the game not only of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and of the 200 billion euros it brings with it, but also of other resources, from those of the fund complementary to everything that unlocks with the completion of the works. Yet, just scroll through the list to realize that, alongside strategic works, such as Turin-Lyon, there are numerous interventions that aim to restore conditions of road and safety worthy of this name, especially in the internal areas. Again on this front, as a Group for Autonomies we welcome two novelties. The first is that contained in article 16, on the discipline relative to the realization of the works connected to the Olympics of Cortina of 2026, providing, among other things, the possibility, for the works characterized by high design complexity or procedural, the recourse to the provisions of article 44 of the last decree-law simplifications. The second innovation concerns the A22, with the amendment approved to the House, which represents an important step in relation to the objective repeatedly advocated by the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano for the custody and management of an infrastructure of extraordinary importance and delicacy, in terms of environment, safety and burden for citizens resident along the highway. Let's just think about the fact that the city of Bolzano is cut in the middle by this highway or the fact that from Bolzano to the border almost all kilometers are on viaducts, putting questions of environmental delicacy and safety. The A22 to date has been managed and governed in exemplary way by A22 SpA, a publicly owned company of 86 percent, owned by the territorial authorities. Therefore, it would be inexplicable and unthinkable that the driving and the management of an essential highway, very delicate for all the Italian territory - we speak of the most important route, from North to South, to enter Italy and to get out of it - were entrusted to those who, with those territories, from Modena to Brenner, have no relationship. It would be inexplicable and would not be responsible. Therefore, we hope so much that, with this measure, we can finally finally entrust the A22 to the company Autostrada del Brennero. There are also other important rules, such as those on ANAS and the new flag company. There are all the important procedural innovations related to the design of the works, the commissioners, the role of Deposit and Loan Fund and the central Mediocredito for assistance and operational support to public administrations for the implementation of the PNRR. All of this, Mr President, serves to reaffirm the importance of the measure, the good rules that are being introduced, but also the fact that the Senate did not deserve to be reduced to a letterhead function. Having taken all these considerations, I announce the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u51	Coal (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on is essentially an omnibus decree on infrastructure, mobility and road traffic. Before going into the substance of the problem of the measure, I would like to focus on a methodological and working premise. It is a decree born from the need to collect the many stresses coming from the most varied environments and that, precisely because of the way in which it was thought and then came to light, had immediately a limit, that is not to have a defined fil rouge. The great work done by colleagues in the House has also gone in this direction. I have to say that it was a job that ended with important fruits. What we find today to approve and to convert into law is a decree that, although born from the union of many interventions and various measures, whose connection is not immediately immediate result, has found its direction and its specificity. In the context of the hard work done, the efforts were combined, by majority and opposition. This modus operandi is an important signal for the work that we are all called to do and in which we will be increasingly engaged in in the coming months. However, I must also make a point of regret about one aspect. Although I understand the efforts made by my colleagues in the House and the highly contingent timetables dictated by the conversion of a decree-law, I hope that the examination of future measures can be carried out in depth by both branches of Parliament. Coming to the merits of the measure and wishing to outline the overall content of the decree, the central issues on which the measures we are going to vote on are involved could be two: security and simplification. I am thinking - for example - of the introduction into the code of the road of pink stalls, for the parking of pregnant women and parents with children up to two years of age, and the strengthening of sanctions for those who occupy the reserved parking spaces without being authorized. I am thinking of the possibility for the regions to use a share of the resources provided for the additional services of local public transport also to strengthen controls. For the improvement of the railway network the norms to accelerate the implementation of the National Plan of implementation of the European system of management of the traffic, to which the National Plan of resumption and resilience assigns important investments. The decree also strengthens the role of the National Agency for the Safety of Railways and Road and Motorway Infrastructures, in order to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the control system. Confirmed also the provision aimed to facilitate the investments in order to reduce the infrastructural gaps all over the territory. From this brief reference to the content of the measure, it can be easily guessed that it is a decree that carries in itself simplification measures that also contribute to the success of the PNRR, on which the Government is working with commitment and fruitful. I also like to say that these measures fit into the wake of the requests that Italy Viva has been making for a long time. And I refer to the shock plan for infrastructure and the contextual need to unlock all works. It must be understood that the restart of this country passes through its physical and digital infrastructure. Therefore, the decree-law that we are preparing to approve goes in the right direction, that is, in a competitive direction, in the perspective of the economic and working restart of the country, but also in that of the best use of the PNRR. Infrastructure and transport are one of the land on which, as a country, we are called to intervene with more funding and more incisive improvements. In the first place, my hope and that of the Group I represent is that the economic cover, which has been shown to be in deficit in this decree-law, can instead find a seat in the budget law that we will be called upon to examine in the coming weeks. From the second point of view, that of improvement, I believe that much still needs to be done and can be done. I am thinking, for example, of the sensitive road safety sector: despite the sharp reduction in car traffic from the emerging period, there has been no parallel reduction in road accidents. Similarly, safety must also be preserved for an instrument which, especially during the pandemic, has proved very useful and I am referring to scooters. The convenience of such an instrument, however, must necessarily go into the background of security: the same text of the decree, after the modifications that have been made, expressly says so. I read: The safety and health protection of persons and the protection of the environment in road traffic are among the primary social and economic objectives pursued by the State. This is what we have tried to do in our little and through the valuable work of our colleagues in the House. That of electric scooters is definitely an environmental innovation for our cities and, therefore, must be safeguarded and preserved. Of course, however, there must be a security monitoring capability, which must be strengthened. We must also contribute to the country's ecological transition through these instruments, but we must do so intelligently and above all in compliance with the rules. Another area which needs to be addressed in an even more decisive way is those which could be defined as standards of civilisation. I am thinking - for example - of the pink permit, which concerns pregnant women and the first two years of motherhood. In the same vein, even if in a different way, there is a ban on the roads and vehicles of any form of advertising whose content proposes sexist or violent messages or stereotypes of offensive or discriminatory gender. On the other hand, I would like to stress the important work done by Italian colleagues Viva della Camera to protect people with disabilities. In addition to increasing the sanctions for the occupation of reserved parking spaces by unauthorized persons, there is also the possibility for people with disabilities to park free of charge on the blue stripes if the parking spaces reserved for them are occupied. I also believe that there are other priority issues to be put on the agenda as soon as possible because they need organic reforms: local public transport, which needs to be completely revised in its discipline and which needs to pay more attention to users; greater and more effective simplification measures also with a view to the practical implementation of the PNRR; and the strengthening of the EU's structures, which have for the time being only been identified. These are just a few aspects that the decree that we are about to convert today cannot take into consideration, also because they need a broader vision. However, I believe that this is a measure with which a new season is inaugurated in which to reflect effectively on the issue of simplification. We at Italia Viva-PSI - as I have already pointed out - were the first to raise the problem. I am therefore particularly pleased that this decree-law represents a first piece of a much wider puzzle, which we are all called to compose, because it concerns long-term objectives that represent a great bet on infrastructure, recovery, economic restart and work. For all these reasons, the vote of Italy Viva-PSI can only be strongly in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u54	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak about the disappointment and also the difficulty with this umpteenth omnibus decree-law - this time, among other things, among the most full-bodied and varied - which deals with a summa ranging from motorways to railways, from maritime transport to scooters and extrabonus for electric vehicles. Even Bari's justice park - not that it's not important - is included in this encyclopedic process. Then there are the new digital identities, the measures for the Municipalities to face the epidemiological emergency, the Civil Protection for the smaller islands, the kindergartens, the harbour system of the Strait of Messina - as our Senator Drago recalled - the Morandi bridge. They deserved at least the opportunity to be thorough all these great issues, which affect the life of our nation. All this, on the other hand, gives us the possibility of reflection, yet again, no longer to be postponed, on the scaffolding of the State, on the very meaning of the Commissions and on the role of the Commissioners. It could have been the occasion, for the much celebrated Government of the best, to address the issue. And, instead, the government of the best, while having the largest parliamentary majority that history remembers, behaves perfectly in continuity with past governments and does not change in form, putting yet another question of trust. As our Parent Company recalled, this umpteenth confidence is really disarming because of the way it was born: the fear of an amendment proposed by Brothers of Italy with the secret vote. This allows you to compete to win the record held by the Monti Government. This is what you want to do, and we understand it: you want to beat the record of the Monti Government on the number of trust issues. It does not change in form and does not change even in substance: you are strong with the weak and weak with the strong; hard, very hard with the workers of Alitalia, on which the mistakes of the past are discharged without any pity, as in the worst neoliberal tradition; soft, very soft with the masters, with the Benetton family, beyond the proclamations. Do you know what's going on about this? Benetton's share of Autostrade for Italy is being overpaid, when the right of withdrawal provided for in the convention could be used. It's no small thing: you'd spend 13 billion instead of 21. The 8 billion more will pay as usual the Italian motorists and the system Italy. Therefore, once again the Government is strong with the workers and weak with the masters, as happened with ITA and against Europe, which once again denies Italy what it has done for France and Germany. Unlike France and Germany, we have given space and lifeblood to low cost; France and Germany have kept them skilfully away from important airports. Therefore, ITA will leave with resources to hold a couple of winters in loss; then goodbye to the next government. Poor Italy. Other than the government of the best! The Government of the Best once again - as seen in the decree - does not clarify some important issues. I think - for example - of scooters. We have all learned from the news of the tragedies that have taken place. We have asked with our amendments for the appropriate regulation of the road code or for insurance cover which is also necessary for individuals. We were unheard of: everything we requested clearly fell into oblivion. On the internal areas provided for in Article 12, with our amendment, we discussed in the Commission the possibility of access to funding from smaller municipalities, which often have difficulties and shortages of staff. He went to the cavalry, too. Then there is a matter to which Brothers of Italy cares a lot. I'm talking about driving licences. Beyond the big issues, there are about 5,000 drivers missing in Italy, a number that will reach 17,000 in the next two years. Our territory is full of foreign carriers; our roads are crossed by companies of drivers who act - in our opinion - in an atmosphere of unfair competition against the Italians. In this chaos Italian companies are forced to hire Community or non-EU drivers, simply because elsewhere in a few days you can get your license by paying 10 or 20 times less than in Italy. With us, to achieve the same certification, you take six months; in other countries you take it in a few days. What a beautiful European Union! Dulcis in the end - I repeat what my colleagues have said, with Senator Malan in mind - there is the interesting amendment for gossip lovers included among the urgent provisions for the safety of vehicle traffic and specific categories of users. One would think of something more serious, but no. Here we are to the angry legacy of the widows of the Zan bill: forbidden in the streets and on vehicles any form of advertising with a certain content. I avoid reading the content of the article because, behind such a politically correct patina, we know well what is hidden. It is one more reason for Brothers of Italy to vote against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u57	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Astorre, who, although I am talking about now, has done an excellent job in two days. The conditions are those of de facto monocameralism. Almost all the speakers have already said that. It is not a novelty of this legislature and of this Government, but as time passes it becomes more and more in force. Instead of perfect bicameralism, it seems to me that we are at imperfect monocameralism. Perhaps the constitutional reform of 2016 could have been a way of overcoming and improving such a situation. There is a little consolation, but only for Members. Some of the articles that the Government had included in the initial decree correspond to requests approved in early August of this year through an agenda made to the House and which then became a trace of work for the Government. It is an omnibus decree. It has so many aspects and listing them all would be vain exercise. I will just focus on some of the things that I think are most positive. Precisely as an omnibus decree, we would have liked to have been able to work in the Senate as well. The decree was decidedly improved to the Chamber also thanks to the contribution of the PD Group. There are, for example, a number of aspects of the road code, and I think that is a good choice. In the last parliamentary term, the reform of the road code became entangled in the 8th Senate Commission and in this legislature is living the same fate in the House of Deputies. I therefore believe that acting through this legislative provision on a number of rules, which correct and improve the code, has been an important choice. In the same way I want to emphasize the useful job done in the matter of harbour authorities, with a series of participations, between which I like to mention an apparently minor question, but that such is not, that is that of the so-called recovery of the wrecks of ships: there are in fact many in the Italian ports. The Fund for design in less-favoured areas, i.e. those covered by the Agency for Territorial Cohesion, is very positive. Only by providing the administrations with good projects in good time, and therefore some kind of project park, can the various funding included in the PNRR be fully exploited, and not only that: we will see that in the budget law, which will shortly be under consideration in this branch of Parliament, there is an important forecast of additional funds to be invested in infrastructure. The provisions on the National Water Action Plan are also important, to which the PNRR devotes very important funding, both for the sector of large adduction, distribution, irrigation networks and systems, as well as for sewage and purification. There are measures concerning the training and implementation of the monitoring plan and, above all, substitute powers in the event of the inertia of certain administrations. There are also numerous transport and logistics interventions, which are not exhaustive, but are certainly important. We have always said that, during the period of the lockdown, the field of the transports and the logistics, while being the one most hit, has also been the one that has reacted better, never abandoning the Italians who could move in the difficulty or the impossibility to do so, both on iron, on the water or on the roads. In addition, pharmacies' shelves have never been empty, nor have supermarket shelves. It is therefore a sector that has suffered, but which has demonstrated strength, generosity and self-denial. There are therefore a number of measures to be taken in this area, which are not exhaustive, but are of course important. In the measure under consideration there are also regulatory measures to streamline procurement procedures or in any case to implement works. In this legislature there have been several interventions: with a first decree simplifications issued by the yellow-green government; with another fact by the Counte-a and with a further decree simplifications, issued a short time ago by the current Government. Joking, I always say that we should change the name of these measures: if we call them decree simplifications and make them one after the other, we make it clear that the objective of simplification is not achieved. Apart from that, it is clear that in this case too it is a question of spot actions, while it is necessary to align an organic framework and an overall framework to the sector, to which we are working in the 8th Commission, with the examination of the draft law delegation in the field of the procurement code. Another important thing that will certainly be put to the attention of Parliament - perhaps it would have already been possible to take advantage of this measure - is the plan for the overall reform of local public transport, to which a committee set up by the last Government has worked so much: the text is there and should be speeded up to analyse it, because this is a very important issue. I have some doubts about Anas, which is split, creating a new company that deals with all toll roads, which exits the perimeter of Ferrovie dello Stato and goes under the direct guidance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), with the collaboration of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility (MIMS), while remains within the perimeter of Ferrovie dello Stato everything that is not tolled. I wouldn't want this part to become some kind of bad company and the other one to become the newco on roads. In any case, there is a clear inversion to the vision of the last legislature, when instead it was considered important to put ANAS in Ferrovie dello Stato with an organic design objectively different from what was then realized in this time. It's a bet, and we'll see how it goes. On this point, I have some concerns, as well as I maintain them on air transport measures. The whole affair concerning Ita and Alitalia still has many shadows, at least as far as I am concerned, and I must say that the auditions of the management in the competent Commissions have not at all minimized our doubts; indeed, even for a certain kind of attitude of the same management, these doubts and perplexities have greatly increased, as I have been able to recount also in the reasoning of other colleagues. In conclusion, we will return to deal with many of these themes that I have listed, because they are still perfect and you can do better. On that occasion, I hope that the Senate will be able to have the first word so that we can all work together in the best possible way. In the meantime, let us be content with what has been done, which is no small thing, and that is also why the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u60	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group will vote in favour of this measure. I will then have the opportunity to highlight some critical elements that I do not want to hide in any way. I find it positive and significant that some choices have been made. I am thinking - for example - of the plan for water safety, a major issue that expresses an increasingly dramatic situation in our country, also in relation to climate change, which requires a coherent strategy. This is a fundamental intervention not only for the South, but for the whole country, which we appreciate. There is the need to enhance the water resource and to better manage critical situations on interventions of great significance for the hydrogeological structure of our country. The data also from the last plan, recently published, tell us, however, that, compared to the spending potential, we are no more than 25%. It will also be necessary, starting with the Government, to note that something is not the way to manage the financing choice made for such an important topic and the concreteness through which the implementation of the projects proceeds. From this point of view a positive signal, thanks to the work carried out in the Chamber, comes from the Fund design contests and ideas for territorial cohesion, which also recovers - as some colleague has emphasized - the situation of Central Italy, which appears problematic also in relation to the choices of priorities that the Government has made and must make. Allow me then to open a parenthesis and to express a genuine concern in this House: it is an important and positive signal, but we are not taking note with the necessary consistency of the fact that the public structure, the public administration in our country, shows a dramatic lack in the ability to design, manage races and public works. My concern, ladies and gentlemen, is reinforced in relation to the PNRR. We will certainly take the second tranche of the funds, but the nodes will come to the comb and chase this dramatic deficiency, always in emerging situations and with this logic, to plug a hole is a problem. There are also important provisions for infrastructure investments such as those on ports and on the improvement of the railway network. These are choices that we consider useful in supporting the recovery of our country. Similarly, I find it important, but perhaps still timid, to regulate the subject of scooters, which is a big safety issue. The obligation to wear a helmet has not been approved, but I would like to say here that, in my opinion, this obligation would be a fair choice that we will have to take back. Then there are some changes on the adjustment of the registration of cars. They are, in short, measures that also try to reduce the fraginosity of the Italy system. There are also facilities for parking for disabled people and blue stripes; these are all useful choices, but they certainly do not solve the problems. On the other hand, I would like to focus on two problems, the first of which we consider a vulnus, a serious precedent for which we want to devote two requests to the Government. I refer to Article 7 in relation to Alitalia. Personally, I am significantly critical of the management of Alitalia in the past five to ten years, but first of all I would like to raise a problem of quality and transparency; moreover, there will be a competition law that speaks of transparency. In Article 7, we are approving a document from the European Commission that we do not know and from the legislative point of view - I am addressing the Government - this is a problem, because the Government's response, according to which for contractual reasons there are omissis, is neither satisfactory nor adequate. In the debate in the House we put this problem very strongly, we propose it here and we ask the Government to consider this point. Similarly, we call on the Commission to consider and undertake to re-evaluate the issue of Article 2112 of the Civil Code, while respecting it, in relation to the issue of Alitalia workers. This is an important issue: ladies and gentlemen, we do not build precedents that can be a very serious and significant problem for the future, in the management of a topic related to industrial relations, which would actually require a step forward of qualification to manage this new phase (the ecological transition, the technological revolution). In fact, in this case a serious step back is being taken. Finally, once again, we must put to the government a problem that many groups have already raised: we must plan the work of the Government and respect the autonomy of Parliament. It is not possible for us to work on such a complex measure, apart from the issue of trust, at such a short time and for there to be no way of assessing the amendments, not least because, after reading in a House, the second reading no longer exists. Then perhaps we will be discussing the budget and we will be told that we have to do the three readings. In fact, we are not going to do the three readings, but the time and means of evaluating the budget will still be limited. I say this clearly: it is the Government that must guarantee and respect the role of Parliament. Otherwise, we won't be able to move on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u63	WORDS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us first look at the positive and the many content of this decree-law that will have a good effect on the economy of our country. That is why Forza Italia will vote in favour and support this measure. There are positive contents and even yesterday my colleague Fiammetta Modena quoted those related to her Region, Umbria, but the same goes for many other Regions that will have infrastructural advantages. However, with all our good will, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to be critical of the management of this measure, of the process it has followed. As the previous speaker also said, but many have said, it is clear that this umpteenth manifestation of the implementation of an alternating monocameralism in fact must cease; I say this first of all to Minister D'Incà and to the Government. There have always been the two passages; it is enough to manage the sixty days foreseen for the conversion of a decree-law and to make twenty days in one House and twenty days in another. The Government has the possibility to include at the last moment, in the second reading instead of in the first, the issues that have become urgent and are inserting and the third step can be resolved with a short time, with a confidence, as unfortunately happens also today, but this would make our work more dignified. In fact, even in this situation, there is way and way to call the Senate to express itself. Let us not hide: we are voting on a decree-law less than 48 hours after our work in the Commission began. I don't know if it's a record, maybe not, but I assure you, for a decree like this, it's really hard to justify. To this is added the fact, to which other Members have already mentioned, that this measure can in fact be defined as a middle way between an omnibus and a thousand extensions. There is a bit of everything and this - forgive me if I say so - aggravates the situation. There are changes to the road code, it is true, very positive in some cases, that there are car parks dedicated to disadvantaged categories. There is the new discipline for the circulation of scooters, along with much more serious things such as the new rules on motorway and water infrastructure, the latter especially urgent. Moreover, the introduction of project finance is particularly urgent and useful. We deal with the delicate Alitalia-ITA transition and there is no shortage of refunds for members of the national committee for public debate whose existence I come to know through this measure. Forgive me, perhaps I will be misinformed but I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, how many of you know that there is a national committee for public debate; sooner or later they will also tell us what you are dealing with because it is indeed particularly strange. In the text we also find - but there is - the increase of certain allowances and funds for certain components of the remuneration of non-directive and managerial staff of the MIMS and other issues that we had to and could address, but that have not been treated, starting from article 1, paragraph 4 -bis, that someone has evoked as a reference to the Zan law. I do not think that this is the issue, even if the issue of gender and gender identity is introduced in the sense of respect that we all - I believe - must still have, but no one has ever questioned it. The real problem of paragraph 4 -bis is that it introduces a sanctionability without defining the sanction, and this is dangerous because today we decide that a given behavior is sanctionable, but we do not decide how. This vulnus is dangerous, because we would all agree to sanction it in a certain way, but many of us - perhaps all of us - would not agree to sanction it with another gravity. In addition, let us know, in the confusion of this paragraph 4 -bis that must be modified, that it will serve an intervention, and also fast, because we risk giving the mayors of a municipality of 500 inhabitants as of a municipality of one million inhabitants the delegation to deal with a sort of censorship. In fact, it could be that in a municipality you can evaluate a behavior or a message communicative on a billboard in a certain way, while in another municipality you could evaluate it in another way. However, I repeat, I hope that this can and must be dealt with. We must then make a separate statement on Article 11, the refinancing of the fund 392/81 managed by Simest for support for the internationalisation of businesses. Forgive me, but Simest has been included in the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs by the Ministry of Production. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, if he wanted this competence, must take care of it, he must put his hand in it. [[Applause]] , because transparency cannot be evoked alternately depending on the conveniences, and, unfortunately, Simest's behavior, in some situations, is at least obscure. We have presented an agenda - I thank the Government for having accepted it - in which we specify that midcaps must be - as provided by the European Investment Bank for all nations - those realities that have a staff of between 250 and 2,999 employees; it cannot be decided by Simest that they are companies with a maximum of 1,500 employees, cutting off a large slice of internationalization for our companies that, on the other hand, need resources and aid. In the same way, there can be no determination of the management committee taken after the opening of the notices, with the relative information elements, and, in order to be financed - it must be clear - it is not enough to have the requirement of exporting companies, but it is necessary that there be a presence abroad, otherwise (we are talking about 800 million plus 400 million) these resources will not be used properly. We can't do that. Let's have it. After that, we also have to deal with what is not there and which has been dealt with in an absolutely inadequate way. In this measure we have inserted funds (some million) to increase the ability to approach for the ferrying in the Strait of Messina. It's nonsense: you have to make the bridge; you have to make this blessed bridge! [[Applause]] Let us continue to justify the fact that this issue is not addressed because it is divisive. Colleagues, today this theme is divisive first and foremost for our citizens of the South, for the inhabitants of Sicily, who are cut off from the country. To give an example, which also concerns one of our colleagues, although not just a visitor to this House, Renzo Piano in Osaka has been designing the airport for many years now, which has been built on an artificial island connected to Japan with a two-storey bridge of 3,750 meters that comes to be the longest in the world. In Japan we make an island and connect to the mainland, while in Italy we send the trains to Sicily, we dismount them, we load them on a ship, we reassemble them in Sicily and we start them again. [[Applause]] All this in 2021. The same goes for the superbonus. Together with our president, Anna Maria Bernini, we are committed to ensuring that the superbonus is not a trick. We have all listened to President Draghi who has come here and said that until 2023 it will be extended, but it cannot be expected to be extended, so that everything will compete not to use it. In fact, or it is made available to citizens a planning, with the conditions for it to be used, otherwise with more courage it is said that the superbonus is not there. [[Applause]] On this I say in any case, with all the political forces they want to share, that at least for 2022 the superbonus must be extended, as planned. As I have already said, Forza Italia will not lack responsible support for this decree, but it cannot be uncritical support, just as we cannot help asking the Government for one more - we really expect more - because we owe it to the work of the many Italians who at this stage are not subtracting from a passionate commitment to rebuild the country and we cannot miss it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u66	CORTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the measure under consideration is very complex and contains complex provisions on safety, infrastructure, transport and road traffic. Many of the proposed changes to the road code are in line with what the League has been proposing for a long time, such as the possibility of carrying out periodic reviews of heavy vehicles at authorised external workshops, the introduction of areas dedicated to pregnant women and families, incentives for municipalities to reserve free parking on blue stripes for people with disabilities and test circulation arrangements, which provide that non-registered vehicles and those equipped with circulation cards can circulate with the test authorisation for reasons related to technical tests, experiments, construction or demonstrations and transfers for reasons of sale or preparation. As a proud representative of the inner and mountain areas more disadvantaged of the Modena Apennines I know well what are the critical roads and the lack of infrastructure in which there is, for example, the ceramic district of Sassuolo and the entire area of the surrounding economic induced and as League we know well the importance of the axes of penetration that should quickly connect the productive centers with the more peripheral areas, almost always without adequate transport and telecommunications. Every day we touch with our hands the isolation and consequent depopulation of small mountain communities that, once deserted, will be populated only by wolves and wild boars. I think with affection, in my college, of some small communities, Gusciola, Piandelagotti and Sant'Anna Pelago that, although they are small cultural, agricultural, entrepreneurial and tourist excellences, are penalized by the immense digital and road gap compared to other realities. Despite all this, these communities struggle desperately to survive. In particular, we should think about these citizens and taxpayers when we are preparing to vote on measures relating to sustainable infrastructure and mobility. Let's think of the case of the Modena Mobility Agency, which should take care of school transport for the internal areas of the Province of Modena, where the children of some high mountain villages must take a public transport at 6 in the morning to return at 16, because there are no funds. The Modena Mobility Agency - we have the answers here - says that nothing can be done; there is nothing to be done and these guys will have to manage at least until 2022. Well, the frosts are already around the corner and the snow is coming, but this applies to all the inland mountain areas of this peninsula. We must imagine that these children, who have a right to study and therefore to mobility, must wait for what is not coming or perhaps will come in cold and cold. However, I would like to point out that, thanks to an amendment signed by the League, agricultural machinery will also be classified of historical or collectible interest, provided that the date of construction is at least forty years older than that of the request for recognition. It may seem a little, but I hope that this is only the beginning of a new constructive approach to politics in favour of historical motorism, a world that creates an induced of more than two billion euros and that, if protected and stimulated as the League long wishes, will generate additional wealth and beauty. But politics must also monitor what is still on the ministerial desks, although voted and approved by this Parliament. I am referring, for example, to the decrees implementing the historical plates, which have not seen the light for too many months. Every day that passes is not only a missed day for this provision, but it is above all a day of failure to take into account the cashier's coffers: let's remember it well. Related to this decree-law, the League presented eleven agendas of the day to the Senate in the Commission, which aim to simplify with common sense certain rules to facilitate the lives of citizens. I would like to give a brief summary of these eleven agendas, some of which have already been mentioned yesterday by my colleagues, even though they have been partially reworded or transformed into a recommendation by the Government; they are all practical proposals that can be made quickly. These are agendas such as the one inherent in the light signals to standardize at least three seconds the minimum duration of the yellow traffic light (a problem always before the eyes of all citizens who use a car or another vehicle). I am also referring to the exemption from the review obligation for ultra-thirty-year vehicles or those registered in the historical registers that you wish to export, many of which are likely to be sold abroad without the necessary radiation of the plate, resulting in the state being harmed. Couldn't anyone have thought of that? That's weird. But we in the territory, as a League, also receive these indications and bring them to Parliament. I am also referring to the exemption of the obligation to revise expired vehicles, the owners of which have the possibility, without incurring sanctions, to go through appropriate self-certification at the nearest inspection centre; it is only a matter of normal common sense, welcomed very positively by the rapporteur, Mr Astorre, whom I thank. I am referring to the obligation for all school buses to have safety belts for students by the end of this year; the incentives for obtaining a driving licence for vehicles intended for the transport of persons and goods; the allocation of resources for the recruitment of new qualified personnel at civil motorizations, in order to compensate for the shortage of staff now ten years old. I am referring - and I particularly thank my colleague, Senator Saponara, for the proposal that I am living and feel particularly alive - to the agenda which provides for the extension of the measure Rest to the South, as well as to the smaller islands, lagoons and island municipalities, also to the mountain municipalities: a sort of "rest in the mountains" to prevent desertification. This is not a small thing, at least in intent. I am referring to the finding of resources for the start of the work on the Savona cable cars, which my colleague Ripamonti has been for some time, and to the unblocking of the project of the Demon ring road and the allocation of resources intended for the realization of the variant between Pieve di Teco and Ormea and the safety of the state road 28. They are all proposals of common sense that come from the territory and that we are pleased have been accepted in the Commission. These agendas enrich the measure and stimulate many other interventions in favour of the citizens. I therefore congratulate the Government for taking them into account and thank all the colleagues who supported them in the Commission, although time has been very limited. We now look forward to these agendas turning into concrete acts by the Government, which will obviously follow further proposals from the League. Returning to the text of the decree-law in question, all the measures are obviously perfectible. On the subject of electric scooters we regret what, in our opinion, is a missed opportunity. Despite some positive news introduced in the Commission to the House, thanks to the contribution of the League, such as the ban on transit and parking on the sidewalks for these scooters, as well as the reduction from 25 to 20 kilometers per hour of speed, the prediction of confiscation in case of changes that increase the performance, unfortunately many other nodes on the road safety front are still open, especially with reference to the obligatoryness of the helmet and the issue of plates and insurance. Thanks to the League we have entered into the merit of some choices on scooters and electric cars, some problems of motorization, extreme inconveniences that exist in this country. We would have hoped that the government would dare more with this decree-law. [[Applause]] However, we remain confident that we can do better in the future and will always remain proactive on these issues. However, we have been successful on the themes of port work, infrastructure and the maritime vocation of our country. We have found funds and investments and we have also managed to simplify public works, such as the dam of Genoa, to review issues that were firm, such as the A22 motorway and the Olympic works, which will finally be started. With regard to the A22, already mentioned yesterday by President Coltorti, I reiterate the importance of the work as a natural extension of the Sassuolo-Campogalliano strap; this work is the real test for that good policy in which all entrepreneurs and operators, are not of the ceramic sector, but also of the biomedical sector, tourism, textiles, mechanics, agriculture, still believe. [[Call the president back.]] Mr. President, I'm finishing. It is clear that a great deal of cooperation has been done between all the members of the majority of this Government, at least in the Commission, in the short time available; but it is equally clear that we can no longer wait for these works of primary and strategic importance, to which we hope many others will shortly be added. I would like to highlight the work done in a very short time by the members of the 8th Commission, President Coltorti and the rapporteur, Senator Astorre, whom I thank. Although, as all colleagues mentioned earlier, the Senate has been developed in the discussion on this measure, I nevertheless announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u69	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the Government in particular. My primary thanks go to my fellow Members, who have had the honour of contributing and improving this decree-law, since we have not been granted it. Unfortunately, the long hours of work in the House have contracted our times and this time we, who are the senators of the Republic, have suffered. To this today is added the question of trust posed by the government. I believe that, even if we listen to all the speeches of our colleagues, we can say that the most widely shared theme is precisely that of the Group's insuffering with regard to these dynamics. [[Applause]] That is why I would like to shake the government so that we can be more involved in the management and dynamics of the measures. Turning to the merit of the content, after this necessary premise on the method, I start from the road code. The changes that were initially made only and exclusively provided for a strengthening of safety in road traffic, introducing the so-called pink code. However, during the proceedings in the House, there were numerous changes. Above all, I would like to remind you of the amendment made to Article 1 of the road code, where the word environment is inserted for the first time, which I believe is an expression which is very invigorating these days. I must admit that the aims set out in the text are those which lead to the pursuit of the environmental objective among the first purposes of the State. It seems like nothing, but it is not, if we think that protection and attention to the environment, today more than ever, must have a preferential lane to go. As legislators, we have a moral obligation to pursue this goal and to achieve the objectives that the country, Europe and the whole world have set themselves. That is why, like Movimento 5 Stars, we can recognize the start of a path that we are now tracing and that, colleagues, we are tracing together. Of this we can only be happy and record the difference in the way you look at us. Don't look at us anymore with that ambiguity that was in your eyes until some time ago, when the 5 Star Movimento entered Parliament by setting an important priority among its stars, which is precisely that of the environment that is in our symbol. There's more to this decree. In particular, there is a truly innovative trait for our country, which will bring us, in terms of environmental and fauna sensitivity, to other countries far more advanced than we in this area. I am talking about the obligation to provide, during the design phase of new road, motorway and railway works, additional infrastructure called green corridors; the infrastructure that will be useful to allow the safe passage of wildlife. I hope that, as soon as possible, this vision can be further expanded and that it will enable real ecoducts to be built on existing infrastructure as well. It is not possible, in fact, that today, in 2021, we are still forced to read news that report the deaths of wild animals such as deer or even bears, therefore protected species, because we cannot stop their introduction on the roads of our road and motorway infrastructure. It is a phenomenon far from what the European Union has set itself as a strategic objective, namely to halve the number of serious injuries by 2030 and to reset it by 2050. I would like to see, in fact, how a motorist can remain unharmed after a collision with a large animal, like a deer or a wild boar, at a sustained speed. It seems strange and illogical, but today we are still talking about this. However, we record a step forward even if, like Movimento 5 Stars, we want to aim for much more. As it is still unbelievable today that the economic and financial plans for motorway concessions are subject to further extensions. Gentlemen of the government, we need to make this clear. We need to be clear with our voters, we need to be clear with the citizens and we need to be clear with ourselves too: there are concessions that are not months late, but years late. The remodulation of the management plans would allow to apply that new single charging system, defined in the Resolution n. 17 of 2019 of the ART (Transport Regulatory Authority), that would only favour the users in terms of the cost of the toll and the certainty of the investments in maintenance. [[Applause]] I would like to say that this extension is enough and we are moving forward with the application of the rules, which exist and restore a sense and balance to the relations between the State and the private sector, in favour of the State and the citizen of course. Then there is the issue of Newco entirely controlled by the MEF, subject to similar control by the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility. It is expected that all the functions assigned to ANAS to date will be transferred, with the exclusive reference to state toll motorways. I believe that this is an excellent solution; a solution that goes in the right direction, that of the return of concessions to the hands of the State. In my opinion, if this solution had been implemented before, then we would have avoided reading in the decree of ambiguous solutions such as the one found for the A22 (whose concession expired, I remember, in 2014), which concerns project finance. I say one thing: on this issue in particular, we should obtain an opinion from the Government on any aspects of incompatibility of this rule with the European one in this matter, because we remember that it is news of a few months ago of a letter sent to Italy by the European Commission in which there was the communication of Italy's formal notice in order to ensure the correct implementation of Community rules on public contracts and concession contracts. According to EU law, the extension of a concession is equivalent to a new concession and can only be awarded through a tendering procedure. It would be paradoxical to receive from Brussels a referral to the European Court of Justice, a scenario that this Government, like any other Government, should avoid. Returning to the road code, the changes made were indeed many and we are sincerely proud that the long years of work, negotiation, negotiation, attempts to converge with the other political groups have not been lost in nothing. Fortunately, this was not the case, as it was not the case to blow up investments in an entire sector, namely that of electric micromobility commonly defined in the context of scooters. Colleagues, how many times have we heard you make jokes, give interviews through which you tried to demonize these innovative tools? Many have called it a grip on the sector, the one contained in this decree, but we must be honest again, but we must all be honest and say that on the contrary it is a necessary strait that saves the existence and circulation of micromobility means in our cities. It has been avoided leaving so many citizens without a fundamental part of urban mobility and we openly remember that the real grip would have been to impose the obligation of the helmet on everyone, when instead it was imposed only on minors and by virtue of their personal safety; the real grip would have been to impose the obligation of insurance and plaque or even the prohibition of the movement of these means in the evening hours to minors. On this and on the sensitive issue of motorway concessions for us, we will not stop and continue to work and if necessary also to fight. The fact remains that in this measure we put in place so many pieces, all very important and this is the policy that Italians today ask us at this juncture. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u71	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u72	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, I want to start from a very simple point, which perhaps does not interest anyone, so you can continue to speak, that is that I had given this Government confidence at the time. Now, however, the confidence of only one person, of only one Member of Parliament, when the Government has about 90% of parliamentary support, is completely irrelevant and then I speak not in political terms of support for the Government, but in legal terms. I have heard almost all my colleagues who have spoken complain that the government has left us less than 48 hours to examine an omnibus measure with alternate one-way, as should be said, that it empties Parliament and complains to the Government. The Government is asked to respect Parliament. Gentlemen, you are asking the government to respect you, that is, you do not and will not have the dignity to claim it. Tend your hands, but not to help someone from the sea, you tend your hands so that the government will leave us something. This is the truth, because you do not have the courage and dignity to demand respect for the Government. In this provision - you have all said so - we do not know exactly what is there. We have read the titles and they have been announced to you. The truth is that in here there is the debarking of the right of the worker, there is the debarking of union relations. Even if someman raises his voice and criticizes, he does not have the courage to be consistent and consequent. You have to demand rights. If what is written in Article 7 is not good for you (and not good for you), you cannot vote for this Government, as I will not vote for it. There are three points, President (I will be very fast). This is an illegitimate measure that empties Parliament, as it is an omnibus decree (the President of the Republic has said it several times). Secondly, it is flawed, because there is a secret act at the basis of Article 7: it is unacceptable and unacceptable, in democracy, for a measure to be converted into law on the basis of a secret act. The third point, President, is the sale of a company, which consists of capital, instruments and men, but in this case not: only capital, assets and bolts pass, but men and contracts; workers are left alone and naked in front of the owner entrepreneur, this is the truth. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u73	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2437, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 121 of 10 September 2021, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that, pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will be able to vote exclusively from his place, declaring his/her vote. I remember that it is necessary to avoid assemblies (which have already formed before leaving). I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Rufa is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Rufa. LAFORGIA, secretary, makes the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of bill n. 2437, conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law n. 121 of 10 September 2021, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 225 Senators voting 224 Majority 113 Favorable 190 Contrars 34]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 121. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 14.22 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u74	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Policy, the Minister for Economic Development and the Minister for Justice will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for the time taken into account in the current live television. Senator Stefano has the power to explain the question 3-02911 on the implementation of the extraordinary plan for the olive regeneration of Puglia, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u75	Mr President, Minister, the Decree-Law on the revival of the agricultural sectors in crisis already provided in 2019, as part of the extraordinary plan for the olive regeneration of Puglia, a budget of 150 million for each of the years 2020 and 2021, to support the regeneration of olive growing, which in Puglia was - as we know - infected with annoying xylella. In implementation of this provision, the decree of the Minister of Agricultural Policies of 6 March 20, in agreement with the Minister of the South and Cohesion and Mise, provided for the allocation of the total EUR 300 million and established, in order to ensure full implementation of the extraordinary plan, a monitoring committee, providing for its meetings at least every six months. Several provisions of the Ministerial Decree set out the functions to which the Monitoring Committee is called. Among the many, I would like to recall the definition of the criteria and methods of granting contributions for important interventions, such as, first of all, the removal of dried and infected plants due to xylella or the replantation of olive trees, always in infected areas, or the conversion to other cultures. In a statement of 30 April 2020, the Ministry announced the establishment of the Monitoring Committee. Now, after a year and a half, many people give the failure to convene the same committee the responsibility of having frozen the allocation of resources for the many projects already planned. I find it extremely important to stress that, for the complete implementation of that extraordinary plan, it is for us the real use of the resources allocated. In fact, more should be added. I would like to ask the Minister what steps he intends to take to ensure that the resources are actually provided and whether the Ministry has done everything in its power, since, even in the hearings held in the region in recent weeks, it has been stated that it is the fault of the Dicastery that it has not observed the times and the formalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u76	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u77	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions. As Senator Stefano rightly recalled, already by interministerial decree of 6 March 2020, n. 2484, was approved the allocation plan of EUR 300 million for the olive regeneration of Puglia and an emergency coordination table xylella was established, with the task of evaluating the implementation of the entire plan and deciding the allocation of resources between the different measures, and a monitoring committee, established by ministerial decree in April 2020, with the task of examining the individual implementing measures. It should be noted that, unlike the coordination table, the Monitoring Committee met on 30 April 2020, 22 May 2020, 18 February 2021 and was also consulted on 19 June 2020. The repartition plan provided for several allocations. There are three main measures, and then there are a number of smaller measures, from a few million euros. The main measure is income support, 120 million euros that were entirely - I repeat, entirely - paid by the Ministry to the Puglia Region. With regard to the state of implementation, however, we do not have information about the resources actually transferred to the damaged companies. As regards the measure providing for the replantation of olive trees in the infected area, there is a fundamental intervention of EUR 40 million. For this measure, we know that - as communicated to us on October 25, 2021 from the Region Puglia - a total of 8,133 applications have been submitted; requests for the explantation of 3.8 million trees on 31,900 hectares, with a total requirement of about 222 million, but we have no greater concentration than the motivations of the requests of the individual companies. The third major measure is EUR 25 million for conversion to other crops. The list of species resistant to xylella has recently been approved by the National Plant Health Committee and the relevant measure is being adopted in relation to the Committee's findings. Having said that, we have called for the coordination table for November 11 precisely to better understand the criticalities and the problematicities and possibly address them compared to these measures, since all the others are already in the process of starting and implementing and do not need further intervention of the Ministry. To conclude on the further initiatives that the Ministry intends to take to safeguard the agricultural economy of Puglia affected by xylella, let us point out that on 1 October 2021 we requested from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - Department of Cohesion Policies the refinancing of the xylella plan from the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund for 2021-2027 for an amount of 500 million. In addition to this, there are 100 million in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan in the mechanization procedure dedicated to the theme of olive oil, and therefore in support of the territories that produce it, and yesterday was given by the State-Regions Conference the concert on the 30 million decree that always concerns the olive sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u78	Senator Stefano has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u79	Thank you, Minister, for the information you have given us. I think it's useful for everyone to have the information they need to make territorial demands. The invitation that I address to you personally is on two fronts: to be strict in the implementation of the procedures, because the territory is mortified and devastated by this pathogen and we have the need to convert, to start again; secondly, to follow the initiatives just mentioned by the Government, through which to refinance with new resources additional projects. We are talking about a huge phenomenon, and you said it well: compared with 20 million euros available, with 8,2881 applications for replantation the demand exceeds 220 million. We need to respond to the farmers, to the owners of our Apulian olive groves, because we cannot betray them doubly in the expectation that they have matured for so long, but also in relation to the possibility of having a help to restore also a landscape conformation that is worthy of the image of Puglia in the world.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u80	Senator Bergesio has the right to explain the question 3-02914 on international campaigns against meat consumption and support for the livestock sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u81	Minister, once again we are in this House calling for your and the Government's attention to defend the Mediterranean diet and, on everything, to combat the already too invasive communication for which synthetic meat would be better than that from our national zootechnics. For two years now, EAT-Lancet Commission has published a report outlining a strategy for universal nutrition, in fact approving consumer choices. These fundamentalist positions are also influencing the European Commission's guidelines on the ecological transition, which appears to be financing research on synthetic foods with the money of post-Covid economic recovery. We do not want to be conspiracy, but many media reports of more than two million euros granted to Dutch multinationals supported by funds in which they have also invested actors, magnates of information technology, social and sport. A clear strategy is now in place to discredit Made in Italy in favour of food models absolutely far from our culture, tradition, seasonality that are based on the promotion of ultra-processed and synthetic foods that are promoted without having verified the consequences. And this is very serious. European and national regulators must demand the greatest rigidity in assessing the effects of these synthetic products even in the long term on the health and diet of our consumers. These positions then weaken the supply chains and the competitiveness of the Italian food chains, already hard tested by the emergency health, with the stop to the catering and the decrease of the sales and the prices, starting from the livestock sector, which counts - you know - 115,000 companies active in our country, 250,000 employed and a heritage of 17 billion euros (80 billion is estimated the turnover to the consumption). It is the multinational food companies who are investing in innovative technologies to produce synthetic meat. The attempt is to insinuate in the public opinion that red meat harms consumers' health, that animals on farms are mistreated and that zootechnics produce water waste and generate a high carbon dioxide emission. This is not the real vision. In Italy farms have adopted production techniques with low environmental impact, with particular attention to animal welfare. We want to ask you, Minister, what you intend to do, at this time of serious difficulty, to make livestock farming competitive, including through the funds of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, especially because the ecological transition must become a reason not to favour synthetic meat, synthetic fish or any other synthetic stuff, but to invest in active policies aimed at the sustainable growth of the Italian food supply chains, in defence of the health and freedom of choice of consumers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u82	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u83	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions. I will divide my speech into two parts, because while I was coming here and thinking about the answer to this question, I thought about the movie "Matrix" - I think you all remember it well - when Morpheus' group realizes that the reality in which we live is virtual and falls into the real world, where men are batteries attached with a cable. To survive in that world they have to eat a food full of proteins, vitamins, etc.; a nourishing without taste, produced synthetically. If there is anyone who thinks that this is the reference model to which we must bring the whole world, with food systems produced in laboratories and factories, know that this is wrong and that it will never have any road. [[Applause]] One Health strategy should not be confused with one diet strategy, because there is no single diet that is good for every human being. And there's no good food that's good and no unhealthy food that hurts. There are balanced diets. Excesses are bad, but the balanced consumption of animal proteins, plant proteins and all kinds of nutrients is the only way we have to make a healthy life, perhaps accompanied by a bit of sports activity. [[Applause]] Having said that, it is clear that the livestock sector, in addition to these attacks, also presents some critical issues related to the revision of the new CAP; We know very well that the internal convergence paths will lead to a reduction in intervention in favour of livestock farming. This is precisely why we are building eco-schemas dedicated to animal husbandry, in particular two, in the new CAP and in the National Strategic Plan. We will have a scheme to which we can adhere, of course on a voluntary basis, through two levels of commitment: the first provides for a payment aimed at achieving the objectives of reducing the consumption of antimicrobials in farms, which will be verified through the ClassyFarm system; while a second level of commitment, higher, provides a payment for the grazing activity together with the accession to the National Quality System for Animal Welfare. Given the path that the zootechnics have made, it is also a matter of showing how good that supply chain has done, entrusting the certification body the verification of the respect of the commitment of grazing. But that's not all there is. In the budget law we have proposed the VAT compensation rule, which is worth 74.5 billion in the livestock sector. In the National Recovery and Resilience Plan we try to accompany the income resistance of animal husbandry through complementary measures, such as the transition to biogas and Biomethane, which is very important for the livestock sector, or as the agri-solar measure, which will allow an energy independence to those companies. Therefore, there are resources both in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and in the Budget Law, but above all the Government, Parliament and the entire supply chain are strongly committed to defending Italian production systems and Italian agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u84	Senator Vallardi has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u85	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Patuanelli. We at the League are convinced that you are doing everything possible to defend Made in Italy and especially the Mediterranean diet from the attacks that are being launched on us in a concentric way on the quality of our food. We do not want synthetic meat at all. We know that you and the League are working in the same direction, but we are very concerned because it is news about two months ago that the European Union approved the larva flour and, therefore, insects as food. We absolutely don't want this to go through. We know that the Mediterranean diet is famous all over the world; it is the immaterial heritage of humanity and the counterproof is the fact that Italy is certainly the longest-lived country in Europe. If we live more than others, it means we eat well. Today is certainly a suggestive day: November 4 is the day when we celebrate the fallen of all wars. If our fathers and grandparents knew what we were eating today and what we were going to eat, they would most likely turn around in the grave. Then I would like to remind you of the defense of Made in Italy and our excellences. I would also like to remind you of the problem of milk. Our stables are suffering; the price of milk is certainly a point on which we must pay more attention and then we all remember the issue of milk quotas. The stables are closing right now. The European Union has said that the infringement procedure in Italy is wrong and, therefore, we must help our farmers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u86	Senator Grimani has the right to explain the question 3-2906 on the shortage and increase of raw materials in Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u87	Mr President, Minister, the price of raw materials has risen in most industrial sectors for logistical and speculative reasons. This is demonstrated by the price of the macro category of rare earths. Precisely, the value of rhodium has increased by 447 percent and this has created a phenomenon that British economists have nicknamed everything bubble. Given that the increase in the price is accompanied by the lack of availability on the market, caused by the simultaneous repartition of production of all the world after the interruption that there has been with the Covid emergency; whereas the Italian economy depends largely on the import of materials to support its own companies, as has been shown by Istat in the document Ecomondo 2020, in which it is estimated that the sum of the total value of the imports of raw materials is approximately 18,6 billion euros; considering that the lack of slots inside the shipping container, accompanied by an increase in the prices of the transport, has caused considerable damage to the Italian company, with the consequence that many contracts have been activated with contracts that have provided penalties for non-delivery and that for a few weeks there are consequently reports of deficiencies of raw materials from many categories of industry, crafts and production; considering that it is essential to ensure that the supply chains of many sectors are not interrupted by the shortage of components that could result in the stopping of important companies in the field of mechanics and construction, definitely considering that the situation of this type and production can lead to the situation, and therefore to the negative consequences for the work of many sectors, we think of European countries that could be helped by the first ones, and therefore, which could be caused by the situation from the situation. For this reason we ask the Minister, who is certainly aware of these situations, who will be monitored, what actions he wants to take to make supplies available in the usual times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months there has been a great deal of concern about the overall increase in raw material prices, for businesses and for families. The causes that characterize this phenomenon are different, depending on the type of good and sector: we go from geopolitical themes to purely speculative phenomena, with a figure now characterizing, which is represented by a relationship between demand and supply that has pushed prices upwards. These are in part contingent phenomena, motivated by peak demand or transitory shortages of specific raw materials, but the risk of being only at the beginning of a general price rise is certainly not negligible. In the face of this evidence, we must first of all look at the instruments with provisions to combat this phenomenon. In certain cases, as in the energy sector, specific provisions have been made at national level: I refer to Decree-Law No 130 of 2021, which adopted specific measures to limit prices in the energy and natural gas sectors. However, these are contingent measures, which must be accompanied by more long-term structural measures, which are necessarily structural in nature, as the President of the Council, Draghi, said recently, with the need for a strategy at European level that points to the Union's strategic autonomy on various issues, starting with energy: this has been mentioned recently in the summits held in Rome. In other sectors, such as steel, one of the main nodes is the system of quotas and duties envisaged by the European Commission, which varies according to the importing countries, initially introduced to protect the interests of European companies, but which in the state risk producing a disruptive effect, which will need to be addressed at European Union level, through a rapid rethink of the current limits. This is likely to be discussed, even in the light of recent statements from the US counterpart. For other raw materials the talk is even more complex: think of copper, whose demand has risen, given the sectors where its use is crucial. There are also cases where price increases are at least partially the effect of national incentive policies, such as - for example - in the construction sector, where bonuses have determined what can be called a real doping effect, which, coupled with the global shortage of certain raw materials, has led to objective criticalities. In this context, the remodulation of the incentive system and the redefinition of an appropriate price system are interventions which, at government level, appear necessary, but which can only partially stem the phenomenon, which in this case, however, takes on a mostly contingent character. [[Call the president back.]] Note to all is also the shortage of semiconductor supply, which has not only led to a rise in prices, but also a real global criticality, which has slowed down or blocked entire production chains. At European level, attention is still very high on the issue of price increases. The Action Plan on Critical Raw Materials has been progressively expanded and in its latest version, dating back to September 2020, the list of critical raw materials has been updated and a prospective report has been drawn up. The Plan develops on a number of lines of action and aims at developing resilient value chains for industrial ecosystems in the European Union; reducing dependence on primary critical raw materials through circular use of resources, sustainable products and innovation; strengthening internal supply of raw materials in the European Union; diversifying supply from third countries and removing distortions of international trade. These are all matters which - I remember - have been dealt with before and which have been and are heavily influenced by the general imbalance of the markets, as a result of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u89	Minister, I must ask you to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u90	Mr Giorgetti, Minister for Economic Development. Mr President, in conclusion, I repeat that the Government's attention is greatest in order to avoid speculative phenomena and to protect both operators and consumers. To this end, in addition to the use of the instruments available to national governments, it is necessary to promote a European framework of unitary interventions, aimed at harmonised initiatives and solutions, in order to ensure the supply of raw materials, materials and basic products and to support the competitive development of enterprises. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Grimani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u91	Mr President, I am satisfied with the answer that has touched on all the nerve points that we wanted to highlight in some way with the question put. I think the answer is comprehensive because it has highlighted a correct analysis approach because it is a phenomenon that has contingent characteristics and others that may have a more structural character that is more concerned. The approach is right: to put in place actions - as the Government has done - with the aim of curbing price increases. I am thinking - for example - of the so-called energy decree which was in some way one of the first acts with which the Government wanted to buffer the risk of increasing the cost of energy, while working in synergy with Europe, because that is the scenario that can shelter us to counter also the risks that come from international relations. The issue of steel and duties has been mentioned, which is certainly the challenge we will be facing in the coming months. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u92	Senator Malan has the right to explain the question 3-02912 on the prospects of the flag airline, with particular regard to the province of Bolzano, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u93	Mr President, Minister, the Brothers of Italy Group is very concerned about the developments that followed the serious crisis in Italy. Over the years the Company has represented a business card of our country for the transport sector and for all our excellences. An important national airline is fundamental for big countries like ours, especially when you are a nation that sees tourism as one of its main resources and the one with the greatest possibility of further development for its extraordinary landscape, historical, monumental and artistic heritage. Well, over the years Alitalia has absorbed a lot of money, partly public money, partly private money, and has impoverished its employment and its employees, as we have seen in recent times with the reduction of staff in numbers and also in wages. For years it was said that Alitalia's employees earned more than their foreign colleagues, although it was often not true, but now the opposite has become true, in the sense that they earn less and have more difficult working conditions. As the crisis approached and continued several times, Brothers of Italy presented proposals. Last June we tabled concrete proposals in a motion which concerned itself with the various areas in which it was possible to intervene. We are asking you today, Minister, what are the real employment prospects, for the new company that has arisen from Alitalia's ashes, which obviously cannot be separated from those of the company. I would also like to know what the prospects for transport are. We have asked, and still hope, for coordination between air, rail, port and road modes. It is necessary to do a great job in this sense, ensuring that companies are born, developed or have the right attitude to deal with the emergencies of these years throughout the support sector, with the induced that can be that of a large airline.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u94	The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u95	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Malan and answer the question as Minister for Economic Development, although, as you know, ITA is a 100% owned airline by the MEF and, therefore, the industrial plan refers to that Ministry. In order to put the reasoning in line, first with Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020 and then with subsequent measures, the European Commission's decision authorising the transfer from Alitalia to ITA in the forms always allowed in terms of business discontinuity was in some way internalized in the legislation. The key word, in all this very complicated process and which includes - precisely - compliance with both European legislation and national regulations as regards procedures under the Prodi and Marzano laws, must meet this criterion. This is why the shareholder is the MEF and the bodies are moving with a discontinuity that has also affected the employment contract that has been adopted and that meets exactly one of the requirements made by the European Commission. As far as the protection of workers is concerned, the Government immediately moved to ensure a system of social shock absorbers that should accompany the business development plan, which starts under objectively limited perimeter conditions, but which should absorb - of course if the market will assist us - thousands of workers already from next year, until, if possible, on the multiannual horizon to absorb directly at least 5,000 workers. In addition, with regard to handling and maintenance, in this case we are going to races in which we certainly hope that ITA, in competition and in cooperation with private investors, will be able to participate; of course there is a limit of majority and minority over the two different cases. I begin with the conclusion of my speech by simply saying that the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility with the new airport plan has stated that it sees an integrated system between air travel and railways. This is, therefore, a system objective that we absolutely want to pursue. It is equally clear that the success of the ITA operation must give us strength and negotiating capacity, because in the future aviation market, interlocation with other carriers, with a view to strategic alliances, also requires us to go to the table with a high head and with the accounts in order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Malan to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u96	Mr Minister, undoubtedly when you speak of guaranteeing employment, of integrating the transport system of our country, of giving prospects also to the entire airport structure of our country can only agree with us. Of course, for now we also see great criticalities, which first paid the workers in terms of employment. Just this morning we have found that Article 2112 of the Civil Code, which has been there for almost eighty years and which has not protected (protection has been excluded) the workers of the flag company, is suspended, precisely for the Alitalia affair. It is important not only for Alitalia's employees, not only for the pipeline, which also has its great importance, but also for the whole country to have a company that has its weight, which avoids most travellers from making flights with a stopover now for the most part in foreign capitals. If it is necessary to go from Munich, Vienna, Frankfurt, London or Paris, the risk, indeed the certainty is that many, if they have to make such a transition, instead of setting up companies in Italy, think that they are to be installed in one of those countries where they have to transit anyway. It is important that the Government and Italy as a whole make the international importance of having a company, an air transport that is attractive for investments, for tourism and that of course it also serves adequately within Italy. On this we will always be fully cooperative and we hope that the Government will assert all the weight of our country in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u97	Senator Corrado has the right to explain the question 3-02886 on inconsistencies in the acquisition and supply of meals for prisoners, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u98	Mr President, Minister, an earthquake has recently upset the golden world of companies that provide inmates with food and survival. Food is the food necessary for the packaging of the three daily meals insured by the administration drawing from the daily per capita diary of each small; extraviction or survival are the food and comfort that are bought at will, but with own money. At the beginning of September, the Court of Auditors, Regional Control Section for Lazio, with resolutions Nos. 101, 102, 103 and 104 of 2021, denied the visa and registration of the decrees of approval of as many contracts prepared by the DAP through the regional provision of Lazio, Abruzzo and Molise, contracts of supply of food for the three years 2021-2023 in the institutes of Rebibbia for almost 4,5 million euro, Civitavecchia and Viterbo for 2,2 million, Abruzzo and Molise for 2,5 million, Frosinone, Cassino and Latina for 1,7 million. Although in 2020 the auction base was increased from 3,90 to 5,70 euros daily and the national average is around 3,92 euros, the offers of the three companies that had won the four contracts, then canceled in autotutela, referred to according to the lex specialis of contest only to the main service and compulsory of food, provided for reductions near or even above 60 percent: 2.39 euros daily per capita the company Domenico Ventura srl and even 2,25 euros the company Ragionier Pietro Guarnieri-figli srl, while the Sirio srl has proposed 3 euros. Hence - the Court observes - the apparent economic insustainability of the food service, where it is released from the revenues of the survivor, and the obvious detriment of the principle of quality of services. On the contrary, with President Antonio Mezzera, the college of preventive control not only pointed out the anomaly of the extraordinary decrease with which are entrusted such contracts of supply of complete daily food, circumstance hardly compatible with a dignified feeding of the prison population, but has stigmatized that for a contract and a concession of services a single procedure instead of two is banned. The decision of the Council of State last August and then those of the Court of Auditors in fact confirm the complaints collected, for example, by the Guarantor of the prisoners of Rome, Gabriella Stramaccioni, about the insufficiency of food and the exorbitant costs of the survivors to Rebibbia and urged the press more careful to point the spotlight on this frankly scandalous practice. Since it is not ethically acceptable and it is not permitted to exploit prisoners' lives, the Minister is asked what information he has about it and what steps he intends to take to guarantee prisoners in prison institutions the basic humanitarian principles that can be described in Articles 27 and 32 of the Constitution, as well as compliance with the provisions of Law No 354 of 26 July 1975. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u99	Mr President, the problem that is being put to our attention is that of food and survival in prisons. I would like to distinguish two profiles of the question that has been put, however connected with each other: one is the legal one, highlighted by the decisions of the Court of Auditors and the Council of State in the notices of invitation to tender, in particular as regards the provision of Lazio and neighbouring regions, and the other, which is mentioned in the final, is related to the poor quality of food denounced by some press bodies and which is obviously detrimental to the dignity of prisoners. On the first aspect, the legal problems associated with bans and invitations to tender for food and survival have been at the attention of the prison administration for some time, in particular since the entry into force in 2017 of the principles of the European Union that go beyond the procedures negotiated between the administration and the parties in favour of opening up to the common market. There were tenders launched in 2017 and cancelled by the Council of State for an auction base deemed too low, then the administration gave different indications and were redone of the races in June 2020, although then canceled again. In short, the theme of the correct delivery of food and survival is to the attention of the prison administration, especially following the decisions of the Council of State of 2021 and the Court of Auditors, which modified the criteria of ban separating - this is a crucial point - the food, that is the provision of breakfast, lunch and dinner, from the survival. As the Court of Auditors has pointed out in one of the judgments cited by you, the lack of separation exposes to the risk of improper compensation, by the enterprises, between the lower costs of food (practiced to obtain the custody of the service) and the greater revenues deriving from the survival to the detriment of the quality of the primary food services offered to the prisoners. Therefore, this is a crucial point: we must make a necessary separation of services and procedures. The ban of Lazio, which has been redone, has maintained a higher auction base. There's a lot of work to do. I see that the time available is already running out. I would merely point out that, on the one hand, the competence for the bans of food and survival is of the provisions and not of the central administration; the quality, the control of survival is entrusted to the internal regulations of each penitentiary institution. However, on 13 September I convened a committee for the innovation of the penitentiary system which, on this very point, immediately intervened giving three indications. The first is that always in the preparation, the procedures of award of food and survival must be distinguished: contract of contract of the service of the food and contract of concession for the survival. The second is that the remodulations of the lower minimum must be excluded; the third is that in the construction of the quality of the products offered, a mandatory and binding opinion by a food technologist for the nutritional and qualitative characteristics of each product provided for in the specifications contained in a ministerial decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u100	Senator Corrado may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u101	Minister, your answer essentially satisfies me for the punctuality with which you have reconstructed the supply of food and extra food in Italian penitentiaries, in particular by highlighting the turn of 2017, to which - we can tell you - the association of contractors of the contracts in question has not yet become addicted or resigned. An amoral anachronism - if I may say so - seems to be the sentiment of that cartel of companies that, already favored for decades by an absurd secrecy of the supply contracts, up to three months ago were also so by the procedure that required to ban tenders for the only food; a contract that, however, carried with it also the concession of a service. It is beyond doubt that quantities, qualities and prices of food in prisons have been conditioned to the detriment of the inmates by the inordinate greed of these privileged ones. Obviously upstream there is a weakness of the penitentiary administration, because secrecy of the contracts, joint performance of food and extra food, award of tenders in spite of offers clearly abnormal - and it happened until last June, despite the reports - are the responsibility of its Ministry. I want to believe, however, also because of the intellectual honesty that I felt to be grasped in his reply, that the recent interventions of the Council of State and the Court of Auditors - also the recommendation to the DAP of the national guarantor of prisoners intervened in mid-October - have given only the decisive push to a public administration now ready to take the right path and unavailable to turn back. In other words, it is now a matter of keeping the point, Minister, of not giving in to the pressure of those who would like a regime of perennial extension, of making the bridge races for the cancelled contracts and defending them before the TAR when, in the face of certain reckless appeals, they grant suspensive; of widening the number and promoting the rotation of the food supply companies and also involving the large distribution. From next year, then, will be to ban international competitions and to watch - especially, but not only, where one same subject wins food and survive - that it is not the 65,000 fixed customers of the chain to continue to pay the price of the umpteenth additional penalty without crime. Transparency and respect for the rights of all remain the priority, the objective to which we all strive together.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u102	Senator Modena has the right to explain the question 3-02915 on the legal status of the honorary magistrates, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u103	Minister, good afternoon. This is a question put by the Forza Italia Group, which has basically the understanding to understand what the Government intends to do with the honorary judiciary. It is an old and new subject: old, because it was one of the first questions that we put to your attention when you became Minister; new, because in the meantime various factors have intervened, including also the more than concrete risk of an infringement procedure by Europe, given a ruling of the European Court of Justice which has pointed out some aspects, starting with those of the law that would fall to the honorary judiciary in terms of term work and, above all, with reference to a whole series of safeguards of which it is lacking today. We are simply waiting for the Government's intentions after the work of the Castelli ministerial committee, which we have read. I am referring to the Forza Italia Group and the Senate Justice Commission, which has this basic text and is awaiting amendments. The Castelli ministerial commission had given indications with regard to both the new one and the honorary magistrates currently in service (peace judges and honorary magistrates), taking into account the indications of both Europe and the Constitutional Court. I would remind you that in the Commission too, Minister, you told us that we were waiting for the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which was then adopted (judgment No 41 of 2021), with reference to the status. Now, both as a Group and as a Commission, we need to understand the Government's intentions and timing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u104	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Modena and her entire Group for this question which allows me to share the state of play on this detailed chapter of the honorary judiciary. It is precisely these days and weeks that important interlocations are taking place between the Ministry and the offices of the European Commission in order to resolve the most urgent chapter, which is the issue of the protections of the honorary judiciary in service at the present time. The opening of the dialogue with the Commission concerns, in particular, issues relating to illness, vacation, accident, pregnancy, pensions and the status of the honorary judiciary already in service. The European Commission has given us precise indicators to follow and that we are actually keeping in mind when drawing up a legislative proposal. For our part, we have an already well-developed hypothesis and we are carrying out the necessary comparisons with all the actors involved: the European Commission, to understand if it meets their demands, and - at the same time and necessarily - the Supreme Council of the judiciary, to verify constitutional and legal constraints that condition the possible choices, the functional needs of the services and everything that, at this moment, revolves around the world of justice. I would like to stress one point. This is an essential step towards ensuring the protection of honorary judges as workers, as requested by the European Union. It is therefore a cost-effective intervention. I think that the forthcoming draft budget law should take this into account and provide the necessary resources for this purpose. Realising the need for a complete discipline of the status of honorary magistrate according to the efficiency of the justice system must necessarily be accompanied by the allocation of resources that, in the state, do not fall within the availability of the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, we have already repeatedly attracted the attention of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the General Accounting of the State, which in the numerous interlocutions that have taken place have shown willingness to accompany gradually the full implementation of the regulatory intervention that we are working on, which is necessary and now improcrastinable. Of course, after this intervention on the existing state, we will have to continue on all the other aspects, on which I am not going to dwell now, thinking about the new and to implement also the decision of the Constitutional Court that gives a little more space and time for an overall legal reform. However, I believe that the first opportunity not to be missed by the Government and Parliament is the draft budget law that is about to come to your examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Modena has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u105	Mr President, Minister, the Group is certainly pleased with the answer you have given, because it is a timeline that we assumed was linked to the problems of costs, as well as of course the intercourse with the European Commission. We welcome the fact that, however, we are talking about the budget law, which means keeping to the last extension that was made, the one on 31 December, at least for the most emerging situations. We noted that the issue was also included in the related measures when the update note was made to the DEF. We are also satisfied because it seems to us that the point is centred on, that is, the indispensable action from the point of view of the quality of the work carried out. We can therefore say that we are waiting for the legislative text; I do not hide it - I say it sincerely - that it is a highly awaited text, and I think you know it. The question comes back more and more pressing and we sometimes find ourselves in a position to not be able to give answers. I would like to thank you, Minister, for the framework you have given, as I think it is clear from the path.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u106	Senator Piarulli has the right to explain the question 3-02913 on the current criticalities of the Italian prison system, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u107	Mr President, Minister, since Article 27 of the Constitution provides that penalties cannot consist of treatment contrary to the sense of humanity and should therefore aim at the re-education and re-socialization of the condemned, prison is not a place of repression but of order, security and treatment, where prisoners are led to the internalisation of norms, accountability and compliance with the rules, through a process of inclusion made of autonomy, socialization and integration. The prison emergency linked to overcrowding is an atavistic and consolidated problem over time, which risks compromising the ambitious constitutional objectives. Innumerable facts of the news see indiscriminately involved prisoners and personnel who, depending on the case, are presumed perpetrators or victims of illegal events. This is a clear manifestation of the inadequate living conditions for all those who revolve around prison facilities. There is a lack of prison police personnel, of treatment figures such as educators (there is an average of about two per institute), of prison managers, not only in the North but also in the South, including the frequent retirements and the advanced age of the staff of the South. Consider that they have been reopened during the lockdown period also closed structures for inadmissibility, such as a section of the Trani district house, and that they are still active dealers or bars where prison police personnel are employed, distracted from its principal tasks, despite there are vending machines for drinks, snacks and packaged foods. In this way, the security of the penitentiary institutions is undermined. There is therefore a need for prison institutions to be equipped with automated control tools and drones to be used. Many people who are deprived of freedom have psychiatric conditions and unfortunately it must be noted that there are not always adequate ASL joints for mental health. In addition to this, there is always the problem of the numerical insufficiency of the REMS, despite the appropriations provided for in the budget law last year, and therefore subjects transiting sine-titulo in prisons. For these reasons, I would ask the Minister whether he is aware of what has been said and what initiatives he intends to take. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u108	Mr President, the issues we have touched on are well known, there are many, all of them extremely important and the result of problems that have been unresolved for a long time. Of course, even here, in three minutes it will not be possible to expose all the activities that, on various fronts, are preparing to deal with all these emergencies, always bearing in mind that lighthouse represented by Article 27 of the Constitution. First of all, the problem of overcrowding, which you mentioned, is a problem that persists in our prisons. It is important to open your eyes to this fact. I have already said, on more than one occasion, that it is a problem that needs to be addressed from different angles, for example by enhancing the criminal execution of communities, with sanctions and the execution of the penalty other than prison, the execution of external criminal law, but of course also by taking charge and intervening on the structures. You're right, Senator Piarulli, when you say that prison space weighs heavily on the detention and life of prisoners, but also on those who work in those prisons. This is why many renovations are taking place, using all the powers also accelerators that are given to the penitentiary administration until 31 December 2022 and with the funds of the PNRR, or rather in the context of the complementary ones: the construction of new pavilions is planned, of which I would like to emphasize that the intervention concerns not only the available beds, that is the rooms, but also the treatment areas. It is always important that balanced developments take place, especially in new projects. The staff are in serious shortage and suffering. One of the first things I did, as Minister, was to reactivate the competitions that had been frozen during the pandemic period. I have asked the penitentiary administration to plan the contests regularly and annually and, precisely in these hours, there is a negotiation of the security sector to obtain an extension of organic plants. I hope that the Government and Parliament, always in the budgetary manoeuvre, will take account of these dramatic needs. On the fixed video surveillance, through bodycams, videotape and antidote systems, it has been weeks that, especially as a result of events of serious relevance, I have urged the penitentiary administration to take charge of it and we are working on it. Finally, I would like to refer to the problem of psychiatric illness, of REMS and especially of sine titulo prisoners. You know that this is a competence that is mainly at the head of the Ministry of Health, but I do not say this to avoid my responsibilities. On the contrary, we have made a table, especially at the end of the summer, to begin to deal more systematically with this problem. I'll give you some elements. If by October 28, 2020 there were 98 irregular prisoners due to psychiatric illness, today there are 35. Too many, but the work that is being done is a lot, with the contribution of all, Ministry of Health and Regions, that in these months have been sensitized and have given us the availability of new structures that we are activating. We also have the eye of the Constitutional Court and are responding, with the Ministry of Health, to an inquiry requested by the Court on this point. There are problems of various kinds, including in the division of competences, because, of course, clarity of skills can help a better ease in solving problems. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Piarulli has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u109	Minister, the answer is comprehensive. I really trust in his active intervention, precisely because of his sensitivity and skills. I believe that there is a need for staff and new structures, including detachable complexes, and all that is possible to make the atonement of the sentence consistent with constitutional dictates.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u110	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u113	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, today the community of Portici, Municipality of the province of Naples, will grow in pain, silence and prayer, because the funerals of Giuseppe Fusella and Tullio Pagliaro, the two young men of twenty-six and twenty-seven years killed with gunshots between the night of Thursday 28 and Friday 29 October, will take place. The facts speak very clearly: these two young people are the innocent victims of the violence of a murderer. President. - I would like to make a comment on that. This person held, albeit legally, firearms. I make my own the appeal of Libera-sectione Campania, in particular of the coordinator of the Province of Naples, Dr. Leandro Limoccia, who made observations starting obviously from a given: especially in this society there is really need of a new humanism and therefore to make sure that there are less and less aggressive modes also to propose to the public, to the people, because sometimes even the words weigh. He even proposed taking away the possibility of possession of firearms and at least taking action to ensure that there were more precise controls. I think it would be appropriate to reflect on what happened, because the person who killed these kids held weapons and, in his opinion, was afraid of being robbed. This shows the ghosts that this person had inside. Well, Mr President, I will certainly come forward with a legislative proposal to ensure that those who hold weapons are controlled from a psychiatric point of view. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u114	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-375.ana.u115	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 9 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.04 a.m.
