ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 10 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u4	On 4 June 2021, Mr Gennaro Migliore, member of the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, was elected President of the Assembly. I should like to congratulate Mr Migliore most warmly, together with his heartfelt wish for good work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2271. The rapporteur, Senator Parrini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u6	Mr President, Decree-Law No 52 of 22 April 2021 provides for a series of measures aimed at regulating the relaxation of restrictions on movement on national territory and the progressive reopening of the various activities subject to restrictions or closure during the period of the greatest spread of infections from Covid-19. During the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, the original text of the measure contained the content of two decree-laws, Decree-Law No 56 of 2021 and Decree-Law No 65 of 2021, of which Article 1 of the bill of conversion provides for the repeal with salvation of the effects already produced. The measure, following numerous amendments by the Chamber, consists of 44 articles and an annex. Article 1 concerns the remodulation and gradual relaxation of measures to contain the epidemiological emergency. Article 2 lays down certain provisions on movement. Article 2-a, introduced during the examination at the other branch of Parliament, lays down rules on access to health and social and health facilities. Article 2-b commits the Ministry to adopt a uniform protocol on national territory that ensures the maintenance of communications between operators and family members, the conduct of visits by family members or the adoption of alternative instruments to the visit in presence, the identification of dedicated environments, used for the access of at least one family member. Article 2-c provides that persons accommodated at certain residential social and health facilities with Covid-19 green certifications are allowed temporary exits. Article 3 lays down provisions for the carrying out of activities in education services for children, schools of all levels, universities and institutions of high artistic, musical and coreautic education (Afam). Article 3-a regulates the possibility of holding public and private training courses in the territories in the yellow zone. Article 4 allows, from 26 April 2021, in the territories in the yellow zone, catering services with consumption at the table exclusively outdoors, even at dinner, in compliance with the time limits for travel. The new Article 4-a provides that in the yellow area, even in public holidays and prefectures, the activities of the shops in markets and shopping centres, galleries, commercial parks and other similar structures may take place. Article 5 lays down provisions on the conduct, in the yellow zone, of shows open to the public and of sporting events. The new article 5-a confirms, in the yellow area, the openness to the public of museums and other institutes and places of culture. Article 6 lays down provisions for the recovery of sports activity in the yellow zone. Article 6-a provides for the reopening of the facilities in the ski resorts from 22 May. Article 7 regulates the conduct in the presence, in the yellow area, of fairs from 15 June and of conferences and congresses from 1 July. Article 8 provides for the reopening in the yellow area of the activities of spas and theme and amusement parks. Article 8-a provides for the resumption of activities of cultural centres, social and recreational centres and associations of the third sector and the resumption, in the yellow area, of festivals. The new article 8-b allows, in the yellow area, the activity of games rooms, betting rooms, bingo rooms and casinos. Article 9 regulates the green certification institute Covid-19. Article 10 coordinates the deadlines for taking emergency containment measures pursuant to Decree-Law No. 19 and 33 of 2020 with the new deadline of 31 July 2021. The new Article 10-a amends the procedure for adopting and updating protocols and guidelines to prevent or reduce the risk of contagion in economic, productive and social activities. Article 11 extends until 31 July the end of the legislative provisions contained in the list annexed to the decree-law, apart from certain exceptions expressly indicated. The new Articles 11-a to 11-duodecies contain a series of extensions of different legislative terms, including in particular the extension to 31 December 2021 of the agile work in public administrations, that to 30 September 2021 of the term of validity of identity documents with expiry 31 January 2020; the extension to 31 July 2021 of the validity of residence permits of third-country nationals, as well as other securities and immigration documents due until the same date. Article 12 clarifies the procedures for calculating the advance payment on compensation to passenger air transport undertakings operating public service links. The new Article 12-a regulates the conduct of selective tests for the profession of road transport operator of goods and passengers, so that they are always permitted. The new Article 12-b allows the municipalities to identify the beneficiaries of the so-called voucher taxi also in derogation from the rules on accounting standards set out in the single text of the local authorities. Article 13 sets out the rules on penalties. Article 13-a provides for the safeguard clause for special self-employed persons. Article 14 provides for the entry into force of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u7	I declare the general discussion open. He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u8	Mr President, I am very pleased to talk about this decree on the recovery - fortunately - of economic activities. It is important to return to talk about recovery and vision. We have passed since a period, during the pandemic, in which this country was managed by the famous Conte- bis Government, when all these freedoms that we have just listed have been interrupted by a simple administrative act, which has blocked a country. We also read - true or false - that there was even an ideology aimed at blocking activities and this really scared me. We have moved from press conferences to the debate in this House on measures. From the meetings at Villa Doria Pamphili, we have returned to speak here in Parliament - luckily, I say - also thanks to the decision of the League to become part of this Government of President Draghi, to make its contribution in terms of pragmatism, efficiency, offering its own vision, in order to give a completely different approach to that of Counte-bis. Today we are talking about reopenings, about finding out the truth about what happened. We have passed - fortunately - from the Commissioner's management of Arcuri to the work of General Son, but we will go to see the truth. We went from a situation of closure of everything, even schools, because there was no vision. We have made the choice to become part of this Government to make our common sense, our good will. I would remind you that in this very Chamber some Members have attacked us on the management of the hospital in Milan, which today was the focal point and helped the situation in that area. Fortunately, we are also here today in this Government, which is talking about the resumption of economic activity. Well come: we are only talking about the resumption of economic activities and we hope that there will still be the blockade of the activity of illegal immigration, which is coming today with the strength of our country. Thank you and good work to everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u9	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the most difficult eighteen months in recent history, we can look to the future with greater serenity and optimism and, if we can do so, it is thanks to the prudence and rigour with which the most difficult phase of the pandemic has been addressed. The reasoned risk with which the emergency of the last few months has been managed is bearing fruit and it must be shown to those who, like the President of the Council and the Minister of Health, have decided to act with foresight, based on the evolution of the epidemiological framework, without dangerous races forward, to pursue the surveys. For us in the Democratic Party this was an excellent strategy and in fact we supported it from the beginning, because it allowed us to progressively reopen our activities, also because of the acceleration of the vaccination campaign, without running the risk of closing. Opening and then closing would in fact have been a drama, which would have brought the country to its knees definitively. We have not succumbed to the easy propaganda and slogans and I believe that this seriousness has rewarded us. In this sense we are pleased to have supported the action of the Premier, the Draghi agenda, a strategy that has always tried to keep firmly united the health and safety of the citizens, with the revival of the economy, which indeed shows clear and unequivocal signs of recovery. We must also acknowledge the great sense of responsibility of the Italians and the confidence shown, if this recovery is possible today. (Brusio). Sorry, Mr. President, there's nothing you can hear. [[Call the president back.]] The vaccination campaign and the observance of the rules have been decisive elements in order to allow the reopening of the country and the progressive loosening of the limitation in the movements. The House of Deputies has also made some useful changes in the parliamentary debate, and this is an important element, which I would like to stress, because the centrality of Parliament must never be forgotten and must be valued. [[Applause]] With the decree-law to our examination the state of emergency is extended, with a scan of the openings that allows to continue to manage the epidemic crisis and, at the same time, to share economic, social, cultural and educational activities. Economic activities, catering, sports activities, social places, spas, all of which have been trying to keep afloat in some way in recent months, thanks to the previously launched refreshments and support, but eagerly waiting for the reopening and the return to work. The restaurateurs were finally able to resume their activities, first outdoors and now also in the interior spaces. I am also thinking in particular of the new discipline of access to health and social health facilities, the protocol for relations with family members of patients affected by Covid-19, or the introduction, in the activities of educational services, of specific training courses. These are issues that are particularly close to my heart, the first because it concerns the difficult maintenance of family relationships even in the presence of infections or chronic diseases and the second because it concerns the quality of educational relations. However, I would also like to mention the great and very important importance of opening museums and cultural institutions to the public, for example by limiting the need for prior booking on public holidays and on Saturdays. We know well how much the world of culture and entertainment has suffered in these very long months and how much it needs to restart and reopen. We are finally returning to normality, to life, to work, to relationships that constitute a fundamental part of our existences and we are doing so through rigour and common sense. We must say this forcefully: without the reasoned risk, instead chasing the sirens of immediate consent, we would probably not be here. It is precisely thanks to the rigour and common sense that our girls and our boys have been able to complete, for example, the school year in presence, at least at the end, after months of distance teaching and loss of the daily relationship with the classmates and companions. This is a victory, because we all know the extent of the drama that many children and adolescents deprived of school in presence, of the social and human relationships indispensable for their balanced educational growth. The health crisis on their lives was like a crack on a fragile dam, opened a rift that upset the world of relationships and identities under construction. In particular, teenagers have been struggling with obvious emotional-relational and social problems characterized by uncertainty, anxiety, fear, pain concern, but also disorientation, apathy, fear of the future. We cannot, therefore, ignore the necessary restart on this front of reopenings as well. In full behavioral cognitive development, but also social and pedagogical, in that complex phase of transition leading to adult life, many young people have lost points of reference, solid relationships at school or in the family, certain educational ties. A widespread illiteracy of feelings, wavering between thousand existential uncertainties, which often have not found words to be said, has further weakened the system of rules and, therefore, has produced closure on closure within the virtual worlds, which so badly can do, if not mediated or if used unconsciously, sharp dependence and isolation. We are already beginning to deal with these problems through certain agendas or resolutions that have already been adopted, but we will need more and more targeted and meaningful psychological and pedagogical interventions and, above all, openings. The same focus is on the health sector, in order to facilitate travel within the European Union, for example, or to contribute to economic recovery with the so-called green pass, but above all to allow access as visitors to certain shelters and care facilities. We are therefore all aware that citizens need a return to mobility, social relations and life for what has always been. That is why the institutions must be very careful in communicating the choices made in health matters, because it is not necessary to create mistrust or fear, but to accompany the citizens at this complicated stage for all and our fellow citizens are demonstrating that they have a great responsibility, trust and desire to restart. In the meantime, it is important to remember that it is necessary to keep the guard high, because the enemy has not yet been beaten and therefore it is essential to continue to act, because of a calculated risk, that takes account of each variable, starting precisely from the epidemiological picture. In conclusion, we must march together together. The current government is a very large majority government, born on the impulse of our authoritative President of the Republic. It is a government that faces the worst crisis, health, social and economic since the post-war period. That is why we all need to push back in the same direction. We are convinced that the agenda of the Government Draghi for the reopening, restarting and relaunching of the country is the right one, in the current state of knowledge and possibilities, and holds together rights and duties. It is important to be aware that we are also faced with a dimension that concerns our democracy and that we can only emerge from the crisis together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u11	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u12	Mr President, today we are dealing with one of the many Covid decrees. He's not the first and he won't be the last. The measure has been in force for almost two months and arrives in the Senate at second reading, therefore it is unlikely to be amended. We have not tabled any obstructive or unacceptable amendments. We preferred to reason with a view to working together to achieve the best possible result of a regulatory product that, however, we did not approve at 100%. As an alternative, we have tabled amendments on green passes. It does not seem fair to us that those who cannot or do not want to be vaccinated are disadvantaged compared to those who have decided to do so. Vaccinal freedom, if this is the case, must be guaranteed by the State and this can be done through tax reductions, up to at least 1,000 euros per person, for rapid or molecular tests, or by providing for the possibility of free rapid tests. These are basically the amendments that we have tabled and which are based on the principle of equal opportunities recognised by Article 3 (2) of the Constitution, under which it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. We believe that these amendments are very important, because it is not right that people who are vaccinated should be able to do so free of charge, whereas for those who decide not to do so, there are no measures to allow them to travel for work, to participate in a competition, for reasons of study or health and for any other reason. The right to movement and mobility is recognised by Article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and also by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It is important to provide for measures to support those who do not intend to or may be vaccinated, as those who decide to undergo vaccination get them free of charge. The Ministry expressed contradictory views on the prescription of certain types of vaccines, such as AstraZeneca. We all know that the latter vaccine is extremely contested: initially it was prescribed to those under the age of 60. Later, after the first deaths, it was thought to shift the age group, reserving it to those over sixty years old. Then, suddenly, General Figlio and the CTS decided that it is good for everyone, and so the series of side effects, even lethal, has started again. Until then, now she has gone back again, reserving it - again - to those over sixty years old and introducing the second dose "eterologue" for others. At this point, since probably not even the Ministry knows what type of vaccines to recommend to which age group and to which type of citizens, and it has shown great uncertainty (and on the other hand it could only be so, since it can be said that these vaccines are still being tested), even more it seems necessary to note that they are entitled to be treated like the others all citizens who decide not to undergo vaccination, because this is also a legitimate choice, it is a choice recognized by our system and therefore must take place with equal opportunity. That's why The Alternative There is an appeal to this assembly, and therefore to all Members of Parliament, to accept our amendments which merely conform to the constitutional dictation, the one always trampled on and vile by this House, but also by the government itself which imposes restrictions without offering alternatives that are in the rights of all citizens. Article 16 of our Constitutional Charter also provides for this. But then there is the freedom of association and manifestation: they are all freedoms that are denied to those who do not have the possibility or do not have the will and the intention to vaccinate. The free choice of the person who decides not to vaccinate, or of those who cannot, must therefore be borne by the State. We hope that our request will be accepted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u14	Mr President, I have been given a voice, so thank you. Today I am discussing a decree-law to be converted into law, in this case at second reading (having the provision already passed the scrutiny of the Chamber of Deputies) which represents a significant and decidedly innovative passage from the previous decrees - law here received. This is for two fundamental reasons, two new ones. In fact, with the conversion of this decree-law, in my opinion, as my colleague Mrs Tiraboschi knows, first of all there is the definitive overcoming of the so-called DPCMs. [[Applause]] With this measure, ultimately, one overcomes the bad habit and bad habit introduced by the Conte- bis Government with individual measures, not collegial, which did not pass even to the scrutiny of the President of the Republic, as would have happened with the decree-laws, pursuant to Article 77 of the Constitution. This practice certainly impoverished what we Members of Parliament are interested in, namely the centrality of Parliament, the very function that we Members of Parliament must play, the legislative activity. In fact, we have been defrauded for too long, for too many months, with the fear of the pandemic and the need to do quickly, the power to work in accordance with the instruments which our Constitutional Charter has conferred on us, in accordance with Article 77 of our Constitution. We have been defrauded. With this measure, we have finally regained a fundamental function, even in matters - and not in one - which seem secondary but which, in this terrible year, have been fundamental. Therefore, in terms of legislative function, the discipline of school activities has resumed; the activity of catering services; the discipline of shows open to the public and also sports events; the discipline of gyms, swimming pools and team sports; the discipline of fairs, conferences, congresses and, finally, spas and theme parks. All disciplines were removed from the legislative function and, therefore, from Parliament, used in a monocratic way by the previous President of the Council. The second aspect that represents - in my opinion - perhaps the most significant political aspect - ladies and gentlemen, and especially my colleagues from Forza Italia - is that, for the first time, the President of the Council of Ministers and the Government he has held have given a political decision in relation to the role that scientists, technicians and the Scientific Technical Committee have played until 16 April. Until then, it seemed normal to say that we could not reopen or that we had to close certain essential services or certain shops rather than sports activities, swimming pools, gyms and discotheques because the technical-scientific committee required it. Or, it seemed normal to say that we had to wait until the CTS said so. Well, we will all remember, on the other hand, the moment from which this decree-law departs. We will all remember when President Draghi, in one of his rare press conferences - unlike the previous President who gave them to us continuously, even at times that are sometimes impossible - said that he took a reasoned risk in dealing with reopenings even before what some so-called virologists who were raging on national televisions said. [[Applause]] This must be said, because it was the first time - in my opinion - since the pandemic began, the so-called real change of pace has occurred. So, at last, the Draghi Government has made a political decision, assuming all the subsequent responsibilities, they have been right. The following days were right that decision from which these decrees-laws granted descended. That day there was a chance to say that she had finally turned the page [[Applause]] and we were finally faced with a government with a President of the Council who did not just think of getting beautiful before television; who thought not of a post or a tweet, but of the interest of the Italians, giving them back not only the dignity, but also that value guaranteed by the Constitution and to which a party like ours, Forza Italia, cares more than any other: freedom [[Applause]] I do not go into the details of all the reopenings that previous speakers have reminded me of. However, it is clear that, above all, we who exercise the fundamental function of politics in the institutions cannot have a short memory, because it seems that in these times, even in a few days, everyone forgets what happened only yesterday or the day before. But we need to be clear about the idea that things have finally changed with the government in office. [[Applause]] Even what was said yesterday by Mario Draghi, after the G7 Summit in the United Kingdom, demonstrates the change of pace, the turning point that took place within the Italian Government, when he said that China is a problem and that we must distance ourselves from it. I applauded, and it is no coincidence that I asked to sign a question proposed by our colleague Andrea Cangini, who rightly remembers with an act of inspection union what must also be done about civil rights regularly violated daily in that great country. I say this because it was Mario Draghi who affirmed it and I tell you with great frankness that I and all Forza Italia are proud to finally have a Head of Government who assumes certain responsibilities also with respect to burning issues of international politics [[Applause]] We're not embarrassed to say exactly what's going on. I will conclude by quoting a few words from my colleague Matilde Siracusano, a very good Member of Forza Italia, who in the Chamber of Deputies recalled that, with the decree-law in question, many things have changed to positive and that freedom is a constitutionally guaranteed value together with other important values, such as work and free initiative. Thanks to the decree-law under consideration, which anticipates the reopenings compared to the planned dates, we managed to achieve an important result and guarantee the activities in safety, adopting all those protocols that allow to protect also that other important asset guaranteed by the Constitution, that is, health. I wanted to remind you of the words of my colleague, because I think he said exactly what had to be said about such a measure. I thank you and thank you again Forza Italia who had the courage and the strength to support Mario Draghi as President of the Council of Ministers. You did very well! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u15	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the few minutes I have been given, I too will try to sum up a little bit about this measure, which is partly the closure of a series of measures taken since our sky darkened. Perhaps it was since the postwar period that we did not have such a difficult and terrible time as what we are living. None of us lived the era of war firsthand: he heard about it from his grandparents, from his relatives, but no one could live it. Instead, we found ourselves in a terrible situation. [[Brusio]] I understand that no one gives a shit 'cause everybody's chatting and I can say anything. The president doesn't listen either. I'm gonna swear. Everyone doesn't care. I'm glad. [[Applause]] I can say what I want in this House. I don't care. ( [[Comments).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u17	Senator, with all due respect, I am listening to you and I must also call you back to a language that is appropriate to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u18	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). One says a word a little loud and suddenly the ear stretched towards the phone or something is called to attention and arouses a stir. When, instead, one speaks of pandemics, of dead people, no one listens to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, speak to the Presidency and be sure that the Presidency listens to you. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). She was chatting too, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, but I allow you to go on without using some language. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). They'll watch it if you listen to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, it is your choice to intervene in this House and you do so using a given type of language. I'm listening to you; I was doing it before and I'm forced to call you back. Please go on. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Very well, I continue to talk about this measure that closes a list of other measures that have put us in the condition, unfortunately, to bring out not only of the difficulties from the health point of view on how to deal with an unknown disease. This has happened to us: there have been many dead and many dead doctors. We have had to chase the unlikely by every means and so many times the means have been ineffective. We have found ourselves - I repeat - since the post-war period in a condition that we were not prepared for, especially because, if from a bomb, good or bad, even in the disaster caused by the wars and violence perpetrated, we could hide, the current one is an enemy not only mortal, but also invisible. A series of misguided measures were taken in the first few moments. And then, as for all the diseases so sudden and particular from the pandemic scope, and therefore international, where scary daily newsletters informed of the number of deaths and of the people hospitalized in resuscitation, we found ourselves having to make decisions not only from the health, but also social, economic and working. Today's measure gives a kind of window: it says that the disease is under control and, in the meantime, gradually, the activities can be reopened. It does not, however, touch on the fundamental point of how it is reopened. There have been different colors depending on the severity of the regional and local situation of the disease, but the reopenings do not take into account a different situation that, by necessity, will have some slips, not only because of the fact that they no longer have money to stand still. It is true that 200 billion were put through different deviations, but at the end of the fair they did not give on many occasions what sincerely outside asked us. Many have lost their jobs; many have closed their shops, companies, their restaurants, bars, their activities. Many have stopped going to school because there has been a radical change that may be brought too little attention. There are so many extensions in the measure. There's been a lot of them. I - for example - refer to extensions of the debitory folders. If I don't work for a year, if my business stays still and they tell me not to pay for the folder for six months, or to pay for it six months later: if I don't take anything, I will never be able to pay for it. Moving another six months the time of payment does not change the situation. Perhaps it would have been necessary, not only from a health point of view but also from an economic point of view, to reverse a truly innovative trend. Welcome now to this government which is trying to make changes, but it is not just the extension that is enough and it is not only the closure of the people in the house. You had to have the courage to say: You stay in your home, we pay your debts and you won't have to worry about going to the Agency in six months to pay, since you haven't earned. We take our debts and, when you take back your life, as you are trying to do now, you may not have the anguish to say that you no longer wear the mask, but you have the Revenue Agency that will come to foreclose your stuff. Perhaps a stronger act would have been necessary, an act of courage. It's okay that they open up the bars and restaurants and you can go to school again, but there is still no money, because in the meantime the debt that has accumulated remains there, and the Italians will still have to relate to this situation. The virus is always there. I'm not a doctor, I'm not a scientist, but I've collected information of different types: maybe they should have been more careful in saying that yes, that's not because every day there was one. However, I can understand that science has a limit, because scientists are also human and, as such, have limits: if God had wanted us immortal or omniscient, we would not even be in this House, because we would do everything ourselves and we would not need to spend hours discussing small commas as well. The virus is there and we'll see what happens and what happens to us. What interests us, however, from now on, since we are trying to be constructive in this House in the context of a very particular enlarged majority - as my colleague has rightly pointed out - is to try not to go live every time and see if an amendment is of the League or of Forza Italia, of the PD, of Italy Viva or of the 5 Stars. Perhaps it would be appropriate to think that all the people who are out of here really need to read simple measures, and not to complex construction so many times they do not understand anything and are put in a position to not even know how to apply the norm. Now that there is a glimmer of light and you can really get back to life, maybe we try to think of working really together, with the prerogative not of the pin or to applaud only President Draghi: instead we must praise the Italians who have resisted a truly unique situation that we hope can really have an end. But if we want to give them a sunrise and the chance to look beyond, we have to give them the tools to do so. And the tools are neither the extensions nor the arm wrestling on what we need. We must remember that the experience we have experienced has been heavy, and that some of us have lived on our own skin, including myself. This is something you don't joke about and from which you get different and renewed. We must also be able to recalibrate the political role with respect to what has happened to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the fight against the pandemic in these eighteen months has been marked, first by the Count Government and later by the Dragon Government, by the need to modulate the necessary closures, partial or total depending on the time, and the consequent reopening of commercial activities and structures considered at great risk for possible contagions based on the real epidemiological situation and the indices of spread of the virus. Following scientific data, without risky escapes forward, and the advance of the vaccination campaign today allow us to be in a situation of advantage and hope. To administer the vaccine to ever greater groups of the population, managing to reach an ever higher degree of homogenization throughout the national territory, is the real key to turning. In the moments when one has managed to obtain - even between the many difficulties and the thousand problems - a sufficient degree of protection, with the consequent drastic lowering of the indices of contagion, it is more just than ever to accelerate, finally giving breath to activities in considerable suffering. It is clear that, beyond economic aid, the real prospect of a clearly defined and well-defined future, with firm points from which to start, on which to plan the investment choices and from which to direct the marketing options, including purchases of raw materials and logistics, represents the real restart for the enterprises. All the measures provided for in this decree-law, which also embrace our social life, our way of meeting and living interpersonal relationships, represent a strong signal: finally the pandemic is controllable. We're moving forward in the fight against the virus. They pass to our eyes - and surely give joy to our soul - the images of the reopened restaurants, of the tourists who return to our cities of art and on our beautiful beaches or of the fans who take back the stadiums until a short time ago empty, as well as of the cinemas and theaters. It is important, however, not to pass the wrong signal of all free cars or now everything is finished: it would be absolutely wrong because the graduality of reopenings - I repeat just and shared - the progressive easing of restrictions must and must always take place in compliance with the requirements of containment, in the application of individual protection measures and in the rigid and rapid control of any new outbreaks that can be verified by possible variants, the latter always lurking. We have seen what is happening in the United Kingdom. You don't have to let your guard down. In this regard, it would be essential to guarantee vaccination doses to the economically weaker countries, for an issue not only ethical, but also health, in order to avoid the danger of selecting possible variants, as already happened, moreover, that could spread and - in the absence of an optimal response to the vaccines currently available - put at risk the already outlined path that is really taking us out of the tunnel. The 5 Star Movement strongly and repeatedly called on European leaders to temporarily abolish vaccine patents. The European Parliament has approved - thanks to the decisive votes of the 5 Star Movement - an amendment to the resolution on vaccines, which calls on the European Commission to support the proposal for temporary suspension of patents. The signal is very clear: we will not save ourselves from this pandemic. We must learn once and for all that we are all on the same boat and that selfish attitudes could really be a ruin. The economic interests of a few members of the narrow circle of big pharma cannot be allowed to prevail over the daily struggle for the lives of hundreds of millions of human beings. I conclude, Mr President, with a message of great hope, but, at the same time, with extreme attention: let us take our lives and our future back, but let us move forward. It is necessary to be realistic and consequential in measures, without demagogy, but in the sole interest of citizens and to protect their psychic and physical health. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u21	The general debate is closed. Pending the provisions of the Conference of Leaders, which is still under way, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.) The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what has been established in the course of the examination in the referent, declares that it cannot be proposed pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure for the extraneousness of matter with respect to the contents of the decree-law, the amendments 3-a.0.1, 3-a.0.0, 3-a.0.3, 8-b.0.1, 11.1 and 11.2. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u22	Mr President, it is called green certification the pass introduced by the decree to be able to move in and out between the regions, those that were yellow and red, even if we are now moving among the yellow and white ones. It will become the digital Covid-19 certificate. However, we must be aware of what we are doing, because Article 3 of the Constitution states clearly and unequivocally: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, regardless of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions." Even more important is the second paragraph, which reads: It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles - not to place them - of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. So, at the moment that we are asking this question to allow us to move between one region and another, between one European country and another, but also to participate in the wedding parties and banquets, we are doing something that goes against this article. And it is possible that, in the future, it is necessary to use this certificate also to attend other events, such as concerts, which are now allowed to be only 1,000 outdoors and 500 indoors, but also to go to the discotheque. This certification, of course, is not free, or rather, it is free certification, but not the cost of the buffer. The molecular buffer, which remains the gold standard for the diagnosis of the Covid-19, costs between 60 and 100 euros depending on the structures and regions. In the pharmacy instead it costs from 30 to 40 euros. And that's to go to a concert and move. And it is a compulsory certificate, for the time being even at two years; then maybe it will become compulsory from the age of six. On the other hand, quarantine has been abolished from the Schengen countries and not from the others: and we do not know why. Wanting also to leave out the gaps on sensitive data, underlined by the Guarantor, and the localistic surges of some Governors, we believe it is necessary, in order to honour the obligations of Article 3, to add to Article 9, after paragraph 11, the following 11-a: Tampons and health examinations provided for in the green certification referred to in this Article shall be borne by the National Health Service. The Minister of Health with his own decree, in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance, identifies the modalities for the implementation of this paragraph. Otherwise we will create a country for a few, A-series citizens and B-series citizens, to go to a wedding party, to a concert, to an event. Therefore, I hope that this House has listened to this appeal and voted in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u23	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u24	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u25	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u26	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.2 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u27	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u28	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u29	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.1 to Article 3 of the Decree-Law has been withdrawn. Amendments 3-a.0.1, 3-a.0.2 and 3-a.0.3 referring to Article 3-a of the Decree-Law are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 4 of the Decree-Law on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u30	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u31	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u34	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I support Amendment 4.1 and withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u35	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4-a of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u36	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 4-a of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u37	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u38	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4- bis.1, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4- bis.2 tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u39	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u40	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u41	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.3 tabled by Senators Nugnes and La Mura, identical to Amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Granato and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u42	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u43	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u44	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 6a of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u45	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u46	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u47	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6- bis.1, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u48	Mr President, I am against Amendments 7.1 and 7.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u49	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u50	I would refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Granato and other senators, identical to amendment 7.2, tabled by Senators Nugnes and La Mura. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u51	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u52	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u53	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 8-a of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u54	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u55	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u56	What about the agenda? Mr SILERI, State Secretary for Health. As regards the G8-a.1 agenda, the opinion is in favour, provided that the mechanism is reworded as follows: It commits the Government to consider taking measures to provide, in accordance with budgetary constraints, direct contributions or tax credits to cover costs for the Covid tests, sanitizations, personal protective equipment for staff and customers, in compliance with the relevant regulations and rules on green passes, the preparation of tourist corridors by means of agreements between States to ensure Covid free holidays.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u57	Senator Gallone, since you are a signatory, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u58	Mr President, we accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u59	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8- bis.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8- bis.1, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8- bis.2 tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8-a.3, 8-a.4, 8-a.5, 8-a.6 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8b of the Decree-Law, which have been withdrawn and of which amendment 8b has been withdrawn. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I call on the Government's representative to give an opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u60	Mr President, I am in favour of the G8-b.2 agenda, provided that the following words are inserted after the words:
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u61	Senator Gallone, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u62	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u63	Having been accepted by the Government, the G8-b agenda. 2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Rule 9, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u64	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 9 and to the G9.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u65	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments to Article 9. On agenda G9.1 I am in favour, provided that the following words are inserted after the words: 'to assess the appropriateness': 'to respect public finance constraints'.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u66	Senator Mantovani, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u67	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u70	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, in the light of the negative views expressed, I ask the Government whether it is possible to transform this intention of honouring Article 3 and of not creating discrimination and overloading citizens, who cannot access all... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes, are you referring to Amendment 9.10? NUGNES (Mixed). My question is whether it is possible to turn Amendment 9.10 into an agenda, which is fair.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u71	I invite the government representative to comment on Senator Nugnes' request.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u72	Mr President, it is clear that a change of amendment 9.10 to the agenda would require reformulation and suspension of the work of this House. As it stands, it cannot be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u73	Senator Nugnes, if you can present us with the agenda text, I will submit it to the government. NUGNES (Mixed). I'll take care of it now, thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would remind you that amendment 9.9 has also been turned into an agenda, so I would also ask the representative of the Government to comment on the G9.9 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u74	Mr President, I am in favour of the G9.9 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u75	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Paragone, identical to Amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 9.3 has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 9.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senator Granato and other senators, up to the word "gratuity." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.5 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 9.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by Senator Granato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.7 tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.8 tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G9.9 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Nugnes, we reject Amendment 9.10 pending the reworded text. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G9.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We move on to Amendment 9.0.1, which seeks to insert an additional article after Article 9 of the Decree-Law, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to prenunciation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u76	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u77	Mr President, the government is against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u78	Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.1, tabled by Senator Paragone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to in Article 11 of the Decree-Law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u79	Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u80	Mr President, with regard to the agenda G11.1, the Government accepts this, provided that the following words are inserted in the undertaking's premise: "without prejudice to the authorisation for the use by way of derogation of personal protective equipment already produced before the termination of the extension." With regard to the G11.2, the Government welcomes it, as it welcomes the G11-c.1, provided that the commitment is reworded as follows: "to take appropriate initiatives to protect the Italian manufacturing companies concerned by the new European legislation". With regard to the agenda G11-c.2., the Government welcomes it, subject to rewording:
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u81	I would like to ask the proposers on the agenda G11.1 if they accept the reformulation proposed by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u82	Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u83	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G11.1 (text 2) and G11.2 will not be put to the vote. Let us turn to the examination of the agendas referred to article 11-c of the decree-law, on which first the representative of the Government proposed a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u84	Mr President, I welcome the rewording of the agenda G11-c.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u87	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to add the signatures of Senators Gallone, Caligiuri and Messina Alfredo to the agenda G11-c. 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u88	The Presidency takes note of this. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11-c. 1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would ask the draftsman of the agenda, Mr G11-c. 2 if it accepts the rewording put forward by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u91	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to add the signature to the agenda for G11-c. I accept the rewording proposed by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u94	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to add my signature and that of Senator Toffanin to the agenda G11-c.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u95	We take note of that. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11-c.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Let us resume the examination of Amendment 9.10 which was previously put aside, which Senator Nugnes intends to turn into an agenda. Senator Nugnes, you can read the agenda G9.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u96	In the light of Article 3, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, in order not to create discrimination between citizens, the Government undertakes to assess the opportunity to outline appropriate appropriations, in the first useful measure, in order to ensure the gratuitousness of antigenic and/or molecular tests aimed at obtaining the green certification referred to in Article 9 of Decree-Law No 52 of 2021, in order to avoid the emergence of restrictions on freedom of movement and discrimination between citizens. 18.32 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u97	I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u98	Mr President, given that this agenda is similar to the G9.1 (text 2) of Senator Mantovani, I am in favour of it, provided that, after the words "to assess the appropriateness" are inserted in respect of public finance constraints.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u99	Senator Nugnes, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u100	Yes, Mr. President. I also inform you that Senator La Mura asks you to add your signature to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u101	The Presidency takes note of this. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G9.10 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendments 11-e.0.1, 11-duodecies.0.1 and 11-eegecies have been withdrawn. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u102	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 2 July. At the opening of tomorrow's sitting, the President will remember the figure of William Epifani. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes. At the end of the commemoration, we will move to the explanations of vote and to the final vote of the decree-law reopening. The sitting will then be suspended from 11.45 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. at the request of two parliamentary groups. The agenda for tomorrow's session, starting at 3.30 p.m., provides for the decree-law on the Fund complementary to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the draft law on simplifications in the field of electoral procedures, where concluded by the Commissions. The schedule of work of the week also includes, where concluded by the Commission in its drafting, the discussion of the document establishing a single-camera investigation commission on the fight against illegal gambling. Thursday 17, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place, with the presence of the Ministers for Public Administration, Regional Affairs and Culture. Next week's timetable includes, in addition to the possible follow-up to the unfinished topics, the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle on Pollution from the Use of Red Plasters produced in Scarlino. On Wednesday 23, at 3 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 June 2021. On Thursday 24, at 10 a.m., the Minister of Defence will make a statement on the conclusion of the Italian military mission in Afghanistan. At 3 p.m., the question time will take place. The week from 28 June to 2 July will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular reference to decree-laws on temporary allowance, strengthening public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u103	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 2 July: [[Tuesday, June 15 h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 2271 - Decree-Law n. 52, Resumption of economic activities (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on 21 June) - Drawing of law n. 2207 - Decree-Law n. 59, Supplementary Fund National plan recovery and resilience (decades on 6 July) - Drawing of law n. 2129 - Simplifications in the matter of electoral procedures (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. XXII, n. 32 - Institution Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Combating Illegal Gaming (from the drawing up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 17, 15:00) Wednesday 16" h. 9,30 Thursday 17 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 2129 (Simplification of electoral procedures) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, June 22, h. 16.30 - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics - Doc. XXIII, point 8 - Report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle on Pollution from the Use of Red Plasters produced in Scarlino - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 June 2021 (Wednesday 23, 15:00) - Statement by the Minister of Defence on the conclusion of the Italian military mission in Afghanistan (Thursday 24, 10:00) - Immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 24, 15:00) Wednesday 23 " h. 9,30 Thursday 24 " h. 10]] The week from 28 June to 2 July will be reserved for the work of the Commissions with particular reference to Decree-Laws no. 79 and 80 (Temporary Assignment and Reinforcement of Public Administrations and Justice). Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2271 (Decree-Law No 52, Resumption of economic and social activities) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 32'+5' PD 29' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2207 (Decree-Law No 59, Supplementary Fund National Recovery and Resilience Plan) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 43' Mixed 40'+5' PD 37' FdI 28'+5' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 June 2021 (3 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 26' Mixed 24'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 12']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u106	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to warn the House that at the Conference of the Brothers of Italy Group Leaders voted against tomorrow's timetable. I want to explain the reasons why we have been forced to express our opposition not on this or next week's calendar, but on the uncertainty surrounding tomorrow's calendar, and we like to call things by their name. Tomorrow it would be planned - and perhaps it will be examined - to convert Decree-Law No 59 on the Fund to complement the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, as you also mentioned, Mr President, more known as a fund. At the Conference of the Leaders I had to remember what Mr Calandrini has already said, whom I thank, the Leader of the Brothers of Italy in the Budget Committee. It is unacceptable, in fact, that he should be bickering and that it should not be known whether this important measure will be examined tomorrow by this House. Let me be more clear: we are not in this situation because of the number of amendments, which - beware - are about 166 of which - I stress - only 15 tabled by Brothers of Italy, all mostly devoted to the superbonus, with the will to improve the measure. The majority, so composite and heterogeneous, does not find a square on all the amendments it has tabled to itself. Let's get back to the usual point. [[Applause):]] We cannot get to the Conference of the Leaders and act as if there were an external adversity; no, the adversity is internal to the majority, which then does not find the square on its amendments, those tabled; it is three weeks, as Mr Calandrini reminded us in the Commission, that the measure is incardinated and does not go forward, until we arrive at the fact that the time is of course short. It is a vicious circle, because it is clear that if you do not work on the amendments, it will happen again that you will come to us for a vote of confidence. I would like to reiterate that between the Count Government and the Dragon Government we are moving forward between urgent procedures, about 45, and trusted votes, about 13 or 14. The vote of confidence is a tombstone on the measures: it does not allow the parliamentary debate, nor improve the texts and the measures, so essentially it also emptys the classrooms of their competence and their vocation. What's gonna happen then? We will go towards another vote of confidence and therefore, once again, towards the impossibility of confronting each other, seeing all forms of debate silenced. We cannot accept your attitudes. Even at the Conference of Leaders it was not said with due loyalty and fairness that there is no agreement, that there is no agreement in time and that there is no political will, because there is no political cohesion in this majority. Brothers of Italy, therefore, voted against this uncertainty and impermanence of yours and calls for the Commission to start working on the amendments, for them to be analysed and discussed and for a text to come to this House that has been worked on in the Commission and for it not to come to us tomorrow to say, once again, that there is no more time and that there will be no debate, but a grave vote of confidence. We can't do this anymore. The proposal that we are therefore calling for to be put to the vote, Mr President, is that the relevant Commission should meet and finally begin to work, examining these blessed 166 amendments (not 1,000). There is time, only your political will is lacking. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u107	Senator Rauti, the proposal to commit the Commission's work is not in the hands of the House, so it is not subject to one vote. In the absence of other proposals, the timetable for work as set out by the Conference remains to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u110	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, there were 29 cases of feminicide in Italy only in 2021: 29 women were taken from their loved ones because of aggressive comrades or husbands, who in many cases did not want to let them go and live free without them. The last case is that of Alessandra Piga, a young man of twenty-five, originally from Maracalagonis, a village in the province of Cagliari. To take her life was her former partner, a boy of Moroccan origin, who brutally killed her by slitting her, careless that the victim's son and friend were at home. "Give me the last hug": that's what Alessandra said before she died, addressed to her ex-husband. The woman was killed at the climax of a fight with a kitchen knife. He, 29 years old, killed her mercilessly. The crime took place in Castelnuovo Magra, in the province of La Spezia. The Carabinieri and the fire department arrived, the young man stopped and arrested him. The murder of Alessandra makes us think of the terrible story of Saman, the 18-year-old Pakistani woman who has collided with the ferocity of a retrograde culture, which treats women as objects, without the right of choice over her own life. How long must we continue to tolerate male and ignorant cultures, procreators of the terrible gender violence? For the League, women and their safety are in first place. [[Applause]] It is with this conviction that the Red Code has been approved, to combat violence, and to ensure that justice is swift in condemning these abominations. It is essential to include feminicide in the Italian penal code, which already uses the code red, a very important reference point in our legislation. In addition, a cultural breakthrough is needed: it is of utmost importance to create new professionalism, competent figures who guide families and young people, and to launch awareness-raising campaigns in schools and education within households. We need to finance more anti-violence centres, because they are still insufficient. Women must feel protected and free to live as they believe, and to denounce, without fear of repercussions [[Applause]] or worse, that the attacker is free after a few months of detention. It is precisely this fact that restrains and discourages the victim, not allowing her to express herself: fear and fear that his voice will not be heard. In conclusion, Mr President, we must demand stricter penalties, starting with domestic abuse: such men must be terrified only by the idea of raising a finger against a woman and must rot in prison, without whether or not. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u113	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was the World Day of Blood Donors. Over the years we have learned to recognize the value of the gift of blood, plasma or other blood derivatives for patients, who through this gesture of solidarity can heal or, at least, continue their struggle for life. Giving blood is an example for young people and educates them to respect themselves, even before generosity toward others, our fellow Christian. Each individual donor has his own scale of inner values, but he still recognizes himself in those who animate and push others to donate. The donation must be anonymous and teaches us that there are no A-series or B-series patients. The right to health is universal: can't there be a "why do you do it?" or "for whom do you do it?") where that "who" could be any of us or a family member of ours. By giving blood you become united by a red thread, which guides the beautiful journey of the donated bags, and you find yourself discovering or rediscovering the meanings of solidarity action, in which you renew and grow the sense of belonging to the community, the will of inclusion and social cohesion and the sense of responsibility. The values of blood donation, as well as the many profound and felt values of our people, lay the foundations of democracy and the very life of our Republic. Donating blood is donating life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u116	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to join in the words of my colleague, Senator Mautone, on the issue of blood donation. I have done my duty this morning, like so many Members of Parliament, because among the things that may not be known there is the fact that, in the Chamber of Deputies, an initiative has long been in progress that brings together Members and senators, that is, the Senate of the Republic and the House of Deputies. Now, outside, there is a mobile home of the Italian Blood Volunteers Association (AVIS), with which parliamentarians and their collaborators can donate blood. I think this is a very important gesture of solidarity. There is a need for blood, particularly in the summer seasons and after the Covid affair, and I believe that Parliament is doing well not only to make a symbolic gesture, which is also effective, such as the donation of blood, but also to call the institutions and the government to a great campaign of mobilization of citizens. Italian citizens have sensitivity and have demonstrated this in the field: when there were appeals from public authorities, they poured out to give blood and I think of the dramatic months we have lived. I would therefore like to thank Mr Mautone, to associate myself with his words and to say that we must always do more - and the Government must do more - for an awareness campaign to unite all those who are available for this small gesture of altruism.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u119	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, Senators and Senators, I find it necessary to turn attention here to the emergency of safety and the tragedy of accidents and accidents at work every day in the country, with an average of two fatal accidents every 24 hours. The last, in order of time, took place today in Avola, in the province of Syracuse, where a 45-year-old worker died in a construction site, while one of his colleagues was injured after the collapse of a balcony in the perimeter of a private house, where both were working. Two days ago another episode took place in the railway station of Perugia, in Umbria, where the train leader of the Frecciarossa for Milan and Turin was attacked by a traveler without a ticket, which caused him to break his arm: for this reason the unions of the railway sector announced for tomorrow a strike of one hour, from 11 am to 12, for all the employees of the railway group of the Italian State, of Italo-NTV and of the companies Trenord and Trenitalia, so as to bring to the attention of the institutions the themes of safety at work. In expressing on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars and the Senate's work commission, which I chair, the personal and institutional closeness to the family of Avola's worker who died today and to the head train victim of the attack, I believe that Parliament and the Government have a duty to do more to deal with what has become a silent and intolerable massacre. A reflection on working conditions in this country must be started immediately. Italy must be revived by starting again from work, as indicated by the first article of our Constitution, and by the dignity of work in all its forms. You can't just ignore it. Since May 3, the day of the death of the young Luana D'Orazio, in Italy there have been more than 73 fatal accidents at work: women and men - as described in an editorial of the "Corriere della sera" of a few days ago - swallowed up in the Bermuda triangle "home-place of employment-house," during one of the two trips or directly on the spot, with an average of two victims a day. The country needs shock therapy to start again after the pandemic tsunami that, it should be remembered, has seen many doctors, health workers and nurses lose their lives because of the Covid-19, after having infected in the ward or in the clinic while doing their work. We need a battle of awareness and it's up to us all, to politics, to start carrying it forward. Let's start with work, the protection of life and health. We have had a discussion on the subject in order to identify instruments more suitable to combat this silent massacre, starting with the proposals of law filed in the Senate, such as that of the Movimento 5 Stars, signed by myself and my colleague Romano, for the establishment of a national prosecutor for work and the environment. This silent massacre must be stopped: in Italy you cannot continue to die of work and work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u120	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-336.ana.u121	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 16 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.54.
