ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u4	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in today's speech, I wish to address the issues we are debating at this week's European Council. These are pandemics and vaccines, digital transition, energy costs, migration, foreign trade, international commitments and, in particular, COP 26. After a slow start, the European vaccination campaign achieved very satisfactory results. Almost four out of five adults in the European Union received at least one dose, for a total of 307 million people. In Europe we administered 130 doses of vaccine per 100 inhabitants, compared to 121 in the United States. In Italy, the campaign is moving faster than the European average: to date, 86% of the population over the age of 12 have received at least one dose and 81% are fully vaccinated. I would like to remind you that, before the last European Council, at the end of June, less than a third of the audience had completed the vaccination cycle. Today, as I said, 81 percent is completely vaccinated. In the last three and a half months Italy has therefore vaccinated half of the population over twelve years old; an extraordinary effort for which we must be grateful to our health system, starting with doctors and nurses [[Applause]] , and to the immense logistic work that has been accomplished since the beginning of this Government. I would also like to thank, once again, all the citizens who have chosen to immunise themselves, particularly young people and very young people. [[Applause]] and even those who have decided to do so in the past few weeks, after overcoming their hesitations. The epidemiological curve is now under control, thanks to the sense of responsibility of the citizens. This allows us to keep open the schools, economic activities and places of our society. The European Council will reaffirm its commitment to contribute to international solidarity in the field of vaccines. We must increase the supply of doses to the most fragile countries, so that they can protect their citizens and prevent the emergence and spread of new and dangerous variants. Only 2.8 percent of people living in a low-income country received at least one dose of vaccine, compared to almost 50% of the world's population. Italy has recently tripled the donations of vaccine, from 15 to 45 million doses, to be distributed mainly through the Covax mechanism. To date we have awarded more than 11 million vaccines: about 3 million each to Vietnam and Indonesia, 1.5 million to Iran, 700,000 doses to Lebanon, Yemen and Iraq. Then follows a long list of states: Albania with 188,000 doses, Uganda with 488,000, Libya with 261,000, then Macedonia, Ivory Coast, Algeria. At the Council of Europe, we will also discuss the European approach to tackling and overcoming possible future pandemics. At the Global Health Summit last May we signed the Rome Declaration, which commits us to improving the sharing of data and knowledge globally. We must invest in science and research, which have allowed us to have effective and safe vaccines within a few months. In September, the European Commission inaugurated HERA, the European Authority for the preparation and response to health emergencies. Its aim is to improve internal coordination within the Union, both in the preparation and in the management of future crises. It will deal, for example, with the activation of emergency measures for the development, supply and distribution of medical and health products. We must avoid the repetition of the dangerous episodes of health protectionism that we witnessed in the first months of the pandemic. We will continue to work to improve the global response to future health crises and in all appropriate multilateral fora. With regard to the Digital Agenda, the Council intends to define the roadmap for the 2030 targets, including the indication of deadlines and a monitoring system. The European targets for 2030 cover four priority areas: secure, efficient and sustainable digital infrastructure, digital transformation of businesses, digitalisation of public services and the training of digital skills. Italy has adopted these objectives and has anticipated their achievement to 2026, also thanks to the resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. We are still behind in this area, a long way behind, but we want to quickly bridge the gap between us and the rest of Europe and, in some areas, lead the European digital transition. To do so, we have allocated EUR 50 billion, more than a quarter of the total budget of the Plan. The Presidency of the Council and the Ministers involved have already established mechanisms for monitoring progress. These verification mechanisms will not be excessively burdensome and will be based on reliable indicators, on which I also expect to report back to Parliament. At the same time, we need to improve cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in digital. We want to find shared solutions on four sides: cyber security, competition, digital services and artificial intelligence. On the cybersecurity front, our goal is to ensure a clear regulatory framework and identify quick and coordinated responses. Italy, as you know, has recently equipped itself with a National Cybersecurity Agency, which promotes the development of prevention, monitoring, detection and mitigation capabilities. It is a priority issue for Europe, which will put in place the appropriate legislative instruments. On competition we work on European regulatory proposals for the digital market and services. Italy supports the proposal for a regulation on digital markets and hopes that it will soon be adopted. We also intend to establish adequate guarantees for freedom of enterprise and expression. At the same time, non-discrimination and the correct allocation of responsibilities for the distribution and publication of online content and products should be ensured. Italy supports the European Union regulation on digital services, including to effectively protect products and content produced in Italy. Our belief is that what is illegal offline should also be illegal online. [[Applause]] Finally, on artificial intelligence, our goal is to promote its experimentation and, above all, make its use safer and more transparent. At the same time, we need to boost citizens' confidence in these new technological solutions. The National Strategy on Artificial Intelligence, adopted by the Interministerial Committee for the Digital Transition, provides the framework for improving our country's competitive positioning. A key challenge for Europe is to achieve technological autonomy in semiconductors and quantum technologies. [[Applause]] Europe has risen from 44% of global semiconductor capacity in 1990 to just 9% in 2021. We depend more and more on non-European supplies and when they delay or freeze, as has happened in these months of economic restart, companies can be forced to stop or slow down their production very much. The European Union intends to produce 20% of the world's semiconductor production by 2030; to do so, we need to act quickly and decisively. China and the United States are already doing so, investing tens of billions each in this area. To give you an idea, state subsidies from China and the United States range from 30 to 60 percent of the cost of a semiconductor plant. This brings to mind a more general point: to make the ecological transition and digital transition there are no alternatives to state intervention; the State can only be fully committed; otherwise, if there is no State, these two transitions will not happen. [[Applause]] This also applies to our relations with the other countries of the European Union with regard to the many rules that have been suspended at the moment. There will certainly be another opportunity to discuss these issues here, as discussions on these rules proceed in the coming months. For now, I have wanted to explain some points, perhaps the fundamental point, which must be addressed in the debate on the reconstruction of these rules. The European Union must pool the research, design, testing and production capacities of all European countries, in order to create, for example, a European ecosystem of cutting-edge microchips. We strongly support the Commission's proposal to adopt a European Chips Act (which is exactly what the United States has already done with the Chips Act) to coordinate European investment and production of microchips and integrated circuits. We must also act as a matter of urgency to strengthen public-private cooperation and attract investment at the technological frontier. Another topic that we are going to discuss this week is the cost of energy. In recent months we have seen a sharp increase in the cost of gas and electricity. These increases are mainly due to price movements on international markets. Energy demand from households and businesses has increased at European level and on Asian markets and has helped to reduce available stocks and supplies. The government has committed itself to curbing the increase in bills. Last June we had already allocated EUR 1.2 billion to reduce the system burden. A few weeks ago we intervened further with more than 3 billion euros to calm down the prices of the last quarter of the year especially for the weakest sections of the population. With regard to this, certainly an equitative criterion must always be taken into account in addressing the costs of the energy-climate transition, which I am talking about now, but also of the digital one, as both will entail costs that must be distributed having equality in mind. These immediate measures will necessarily have to be followed by longer-term measures to improve security of supply and prevent excessive price volatility. On 13 October, the Commission published a communication on increasing the cost of energy. The document describes possible emerging interventions to manage the current situation and suggests solutions to make supplies safer and more reliable in the future. The Italian Government has urged the Commission to rapidly explore the option of joint purchases and storage of natural gas on a voluntary basis with medium-term measures. This strategy can be useful to better resist shocks and develop industrial storage capabilities. The Commission will present a proposal for a review of the regulatory framework by December. Our medium-term objective remains to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and substantially increase the use of renewable sources. We want to proceed with the environmental transition and meet the decarbonisation targets we set ourselves for 2030 and 2050. At the same time, as I said before, the state must protect the weakest sections of the population from the costs of energy transformation and ensure that the transition times are compatible with the adaptability of companies. In order for the conversion of our economic system to be successful, everyone's support is needed: Institutions, businesses and citizens. We must pursue an ambitious climate agenda, making sure that our choices are widely accepted and shared by the population and demonstrate what we have said and that they all say a little, namely that the ecological transition does not necessarily lead to the destruction of jobs, but rather - if anything - an extension of employment. [[Applause]] There are some data that begin to emerge in countries that have dealt more quickly with some steps of the transition and that from the point of view of employment for the time being are encouraging; this is a point to be taken into account in the speed of implementation of this climate agenda. As far as migration is concerned, Italy had promoted a discussion on the subject at the June European Council, with the aim of encouraging truly European management of flows. Countries concerned by so-called secondary movements have also noted the importance of preventing and containing irregular flows and encouraging legal migration channels. Europe should be more committed to this latter aspect, for example by following the model of the so-called humanitarian corridors. The June Council undertook to work with countries of origin and transit, in cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organisation for Migration. This agreed perspective now needs timely implementation. Two of the planned commitments expire this autumn: the first is the presentation by the Commission and the High Representative, Mr Borrell, in cooperation with the Member States, of action plans for priority countries of origin and transit. These plans must include objectives, support measures and precise timing. The second is the presentation of a report to the Council on the best possible use of at least 10% of the Neighbourhood, Development and International Cooperation Facility funds. This summer Italy has continued to meet international obligations to rescue at sea and guarantee international protection for those entitled to it. We have done so with humanity, in order to defend the European values of solidarity and acceptance. [[Applause]] However, it is essential for the Commission to present clear action plans to this Council, which are adequately funded and addressed with equal priority to all Mediterranean routes, including the southern one. These plans will then have to be implemented quickly. The European Union must also pay attention to the specific nature of maritime borders and to the effective political stability of Libya and Tunisia. I intend to propose that the European Commission update the Heads of State and Government at each European Council on the degree of implementation and progress of the commitments made. Only in this way will we be able to report to our parliaments and, above all, to our citizens on the progress made at European level and on what remains to be done. The European Council will also discuss international trade. Since the beginning of this year we have seen a robust resumption of trade between countries. This is good news, since the weight of exports to the Italian economy has increased. The total value of the goods exported in the second quarter of this year was 5 percent higher than in the same period of two years ago, before the pandemic, so basically export growth has now surpassed the growth that took place before the pandemic. This growth in exports and now also in general in the product, as you know, has, however, been hampered by bottle packages in the supply of material and by interruptions in supply chains. The difficulty in finding raw materials and components, combined with delays in the transport and delivery processes, has contributed everywhere to an increase in the inflation rate. A key issue for European trade policy is the fight against protectionism: we need to improve existing multilateral mechanisms based on rules and encourage their widespread and shared use. With regard to the reform of the World Trade Organisation, we hope that the twelfth ministerial conference at the end of November will be successful and that the criticalities in the negotiations on fisheries subsidies and post-Covid-19 health trade policy will be overcome. Finally, the European Council will discuss external relations. On 30 and 31 October, the G20 Summit will be held in Rome, concluding the year of the Italian Presidency. Last week we held an extraordinary G20 meeting on Afghanistan, where we focused on humanitarian aid, the fight against terrorism and mobility. In Rome we will deal mainly with the issues of the Italian Presidency, from the fight against climate change, to the pandemic, to the support of the global recovery. In particular, we will anticipate some of the negotiations that will take place during the COP26 in Glasgow, for which Italy is in partnership with the United Kingdom. As you know, Italy and the United Kingdom are co-chairing the Glasgow Conference. The European Union has set itself ambitious targets, including a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels by 2030 and zero net emissions in 2050. As you know, the European Union is only responsible for 8% of global emissions, so without the involvement of the world's largest economies we will not be able to comply with the Paris agreements and limit global warming to one and a half degrees. The G20 countries as a whole produce about three quarters of the world's total emissions; the climate crisis can therefore only be managed if all major global actors decide to act in an incisive, coordinated and simultaneous manner. In all these areas Italy intends to move with conviction to protect the interest of Italian and European citizens. Parliament's support - your support - is crucial for our action to be truly effective. I thank you for your comments and for the patience with which you have listened to me. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u6	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u7	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, you have drawn up an excellent framework and done an excellent job in the months since the June European Council. It will allow me then to broaden your reasoning on the content of the debate in the coming days with some broader and more political considerations, less related to individual issues, starting with what you have said. In a few days you will be presiding over the G20: this is the first time in the history of the Italian Republic and the next time will be in 2042: of course we will all be in great shape, but however it is an epochal fact. It will do so in a geopolitical framework which is profoundly different from that of just a few months ago, but also in a profoundly different European framework. Mr President, you know better than I that the change of government in Germany is another important fact, another hairpin in history; after sixteen years of Merkel government, the Scholz government's formula is opened with the so-called traffic light, this new alliance that for the first time will rule Berlin. France is in an electoral campaign as always complicated. In fact, France sometimes mocks us for the unpredictability of our policy, but let's not forget that exactly five years ago, in October 2016, when the same months were missing today in the French presidential elections of 2017, everyone took for granted a confrontation between Hollande and Sarkozy. In December, everyone assumed a confrontation between Valls and Fillon; it ended with Macron against Le Pen. We'll see what happens now. And then, Mr President, I say this in a non-diplomatic way; you who are a teacher of good politics and diplomacy will be able to take it in a positive way. Polish, Hungarian and Slovenian colleagues would understand something very simple, if possible: it is okay to complain about Europe, but if they feel so uncomfortable with European values, they will give up the European money with which they have saved their staggering economies. To be fooled by countries like Poland, Hungary and Slovenia, or rather by the leaders of these countries, gives rise to a doubt. Let us be clear to the Poles: if they want to stay in Europe, thanks to which they have grown again, they start to respect the fundamental values because the European Union is not an ATM. On the other hand, Mr President, I am not only confirming the support and support of Italy Viva, but I am telling you that we are deeply proud of the work that the Government has done, for example, on vaccination. Having changed the line, style and step between Arcuri and the Son, today allows her, her Government and our country to be the model not only in Europe, as Anthony Fauci recently recalled. At the same time, we must say that our Government is also playing a significant role in addressing climate change and sustainability, as you mentioned, in a less ideological dimension than other countries would like, also because, as we know, everyone in Europe is good at documenting and then they are the first to maintain national interests without a united and strong vision. Finally, before we get to the considerations that concern more specifically the digital transition, a transition on immigration. I speak without any controversy towards the colleagues of the first opposition party of this Assembly, that is to say, Brothers of Italy; indeed, being a very large majority, the work of opposition and the main opposition force must be guaranteed and deeply respected. On the subject of immigration, as the President-in-Office of the Council has made clear, there is one fundamental point: either the Dublin Agreement is changed or the agreement is not changed, or at a time like this we take charge of changing those rules that since 2003 allow individual countries to disinterest themselves in the migration issue or we do not go anywhere. I address the Brothers of Italy because they are led by an important and significant national political leader who also leads the European party in which the aversion to all attempts to change the Dublin agreement is stronger. So if we want to make our country's interest, maybe we need to look a little bit more at Lampedusa and a little less at Visegrad. Having said that, Madam President, unfortunately Europe is living this season at the most difficult time. Javier Cercas, a great Catalan writer and, as he says, a great European writer, said wonderful words saying that the problem in Italy and Europe today is not fascism. The problem in Italy and Europe is national populism and Europe is the only political and geopolitical force that can face certain challenges. Just think of the fundamental challenges that the President-in-Office of the Council was talking about on the digital transition. We are aware that we are a clay-footed giant without a European strategy and that Mr Colao's efforts in this direction are well appreciated. But let's not forget that the game today is being played by the Americans against the Chinese in the Champions League and we are in the League pro. This challenge leads some Italian intelligences, for example, to lead their value outside the borders of our country. I say this in particular by looking at two authoritative representatives of the academic world, such as the Minister Mass and Minister Bonetti. There is an Italian girl, 41 years old, from the South, Sicilian, named Anna Grassellino, who is driving the laboratory for quantum turning on the quantum computer in the Fermilab in Chicago. His name is Fermilab and I had the honour of visiting him accompanied by my colleague Senator, Professor and Nobel Prize winner Rubbia. This girl is forced to win the challenge against the Chinese, but in that laboratory they do not see the European effort, because Europe, as the President-in-Office of the Council said (and we are firmly on his side), is not playing the game that could play. Much of that talent, formed in Italian universities, much of that talent, which is fundamental in the bet on the challenge of the future, today is far from us. Mr President, you have an extraordinary task. You saved the euro. Everyone says you just needed a word, but you know and we know that you didn't need a word. He did a great job of saving the euro. In these months, like it or not like the polemics, he has given a great help to restart the country and save Italy. Today you have one more task, because in 2022 we are beginning to discuss the Stability Pact and even our German friends seem to have already put the "i" on the table, because in 2022 someone will have to deal with the big issue of the democratic crisis, which is not about us. It is said that we are going to non-democratic countries. Friends and colleagues, we are at a time when democracy is in crisis. In the culture of the like for the populists and in the illiberal authoritarianism of some who are no longer democracies (or have never been), is being established in all countries a model of development much easier to govern, but deeply contrary to our values. Either Europe manages to recover its values and therefore to give a vision, as Javier Cercas tried to say in that extraordinary interview with "La Stampa," or it does not go anywhere and is forced to be destroyed by the confrontation between America and China. The President-in-Office of the Council, Draghi, is at a time when, by virtue of his strength, his authority and his experience, he is perhaps, in spite of this, the point of reference of a European Union that no longer has the leader of the last sixteen years. Henry Kissinger said: What is Europe's telephone number? In the last sixteen years the phone number of Europe has been Angela Merkel's mobile phone; in the coming months the phone number of Europe has an Italian prefix. I think we should all make an effort to rise above politics, also because otherwise, dear President, it ends up like that affair of the last few months, in my opinion the most fun and tragicomic read in the newspapers (I don't know if you've seen it). At one point, in a Turkish countryside, a fifty - year - old gentleman was lost and was no longer there; it seems that he was totally drunk. All the friends started looking for him and everyone around started looking for him; They started looking for this drunk who was lost and this group that was looking for him also joined the same drunk, who only noticed it when they called his name. That is how Europe risks ending up; that is what we need, but sometimes we forget that we are the ones we are looking for. Good work, Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u9	Mr President, the European management of the flows, which you yourself described as almost bankrupt, saying just now that Europe must commit more, somehow gives us a glowing opportunity to talk about our idea of Europe. We have heard President Renzi's criticism of Poland for example. I would like to say two things about Poland, which is perfectly integrated into our idea of Europe, where different peoples and distant cultures coexist, stories and tragedies, comparisons that make us part of the same destiny of unity. For example, I cannot fail to think of the Polish anthem, Senator Renzi, where we talk about freedom, independence and also explicitly about Italy. It was written, Senator Renzi, right in Italy and right in Reggio Emilia, where a few months earlier our tricolor had been conceived. The words of the Polish anthem - you should know that, colleagues, because it may be useful - are not too different from those of our anthem, which in fact gives back courtesy by quoting Polish blood, as the blood of a people who at the time, like us, was crushed by the same oppression and tyranny. We are not, therefore, equal peoples, but fellow peoples and for every European nation we could tell of the bonds that unite us and that are not bonds of bureaucracy. Senator Renzi spoke of Europe as an ATM: Europe as an ATM is not good, but we do not like the Europe of banks, Senator Renzi. [[Applause]] In our idea of Europe it is clear that we cannot ignore the defence of borders and ours are not sovereignist fixations. Mr Draghi, 12 nations have called for the possibility and help to build a wall, to prevent the arrival of irregular migrants (just for this), stating that physical barriers seem to be an effective protection measure, which serves the interests of the whole European Union and not just of the Member States. The letter is signed by 12 Eastern European nations, who know well what it means to have a wall at home, which prevents movement and freedom. They are nations that remember well that, until thirty years ago, there existed a wall in Berlin, a physical and terrible wall for the Germans, but for all Eastern Europeans an oppressive and lethal symbol of communist oppression, suffered since the end of the Second World War until thirty years ago. This need for security cannot be regarded as selfishness or cruelty, but it is a call for help, in response to a real need and an emergency that concerns Europe as a whole. We have been saying this for a long time: a common problem needs common solutions. We are pleased that someone appreciated the request for aid from the East: Social Democrat Johansson, Commissioner for Home Affairs, said that these countries have the right and responsibility to protect their borders. It is a left that has proved to be different from the Italian one. If a state considers it necessary to build a fence, it can do so and I have nothing to object to, the politician of the European left said. It is clear that this is not enough and the European Union must help and contribute to the defence of our borders: it is not enough to fill with Erdoğan money, it takes much more: there must be a shared effort. Are we or are we not a union? In order to solve the problems, the first thing to do is to recognize them and not pretend that they do not exist, because irregular and uncontrolled immigration does not arrive only in Eastern Europe. In Italy, from 1 January to 15 October 2021, 49,235 irregular migrants have landed, almost twice as much as in the same period of 2020 and have sixfold compared to 2019, not to mention those crossing the Balkan route, with the ghost landings. Obviously we cannot build a wall with Libya, but we must reason on a new, finally effective way of defending the borders of the European Union, whether land or sea, which are, as already proposed by the Brothers of Italy, financing the States from which irregular migrants leave only if they really block departures and not filling with money those who promise it only. [[Call the president back.]] Today we have the opportunity to build a Europe that is not just bureaucratic rules, as Senator Renzi said, or a name written in small on a map or a sign for tourists, but a real union between different peoples, but brothers for history and culture. It's not easy, unfortunately... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u10	Senator Ruspandini, you can deliver the remainder of your speech, so that it can be annexed to today's report. [[Comments.]] I begged you earlier just to warn you that time was running out. It is a practice that you wanted to contest when I gave the extra time; certainly I did not want it, that I never interrupted anyone. There's always been a time dispute. [[Comments.]] He gave the other one an extra minute. I refuse to be the watch president. Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u11	Mr President, I will try to stay in time. Those in this House know that you have been adopting this, which is well-established practice for a long time, and so we are all committed to this. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, has been an intervention full of ideas and great challenges that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have put to our attention. He spoke to us about a Europe that must be united more than ever and that has certainly been united for a year and a half now - something more now - thanks to heaven. A Europe that must be able to cooperate, cooperate and above all build common and shared strategies to be ever stronger. It is true that we are still in a health emergency; we know that because we will be in it until 31 December: we voted it in this Parliament and in this House. There is no point in saying - Mr President, you did - that Italy is, has been and continues to be an example in this pandemic. Maybe we didn't want to be one for everything our country has had to suffer since February 2020, but we have demonstrated, both on the occasion of the appearance of the coronavirus in our country and then gradually facing all the phases in a responsible, clear, transparent, clear and without smearing in Europe and in the world, that we are still an example not only of great social cohesion, but of attention to everyone. It is pointless to remember what we have experienced in this House, but sometimes memory is short and, therefore, it is also pleasing what you, Mr President, have said. I am referring to the commitment of the whole health system, to which the Democratic Party also gives all the necessary thanks, both for the first part of the management of the pandemic and for the second part of the management of vaccination, which now sees us ahead not only in Europe, but in the world. We also thank the whole health system and say that, thanks to all this work, as you have already mentioned, compared to last year in which we feared, as it was, that we could not have a Christmas in safety and quiet, but now we are living another situation of openness. We live in a situation where our schools are working, our students are in the presence; they reopen their activities; they have reopened the places of culture and, as you said, the places of society, but I would say of sociality. I believe that this is an objective that the country had set itself and that it has been achieved and that we must be absolutely proud of. In Europe we have given a great example of how Italy can work. Thank you for referring to what Italy wants and must do together with Europe for the most fragile countries. We know that the pandemic affects everyone and will not be permanently defeated if all the countries, even the poorest in the Third World, do not have access to the vaccine. [[Applause]] We are proud as a Democratic Party that the Government always beats on that point and does so not only in Italy reminding everyone that this is the way, but also in Europe. There is no doubt that we must intervene by investing in research and science. We know how, unfortunately, the investments in these fields have not always lived up to the names, the brains we have in this country. However, this year and a half has taught us that right there we have to invest because otherwise we will have no important resources like the vaccine and many others that have helped us and are helping to get out of this very serious health and economic crisis. You spoke of major challenges to be met, Mr President: surely digital transition, energy transition and climate change are among the most important. We are with you, we are with the Government in giving all possible support to the country through the resources that will also come from Europe, because even in this pandemic we have noticed how primary and fundamental is the complete digitalization of the country system, which is a circle now perhaps vicious, but that we hope to transform into virtuous in such a way that really all Italy can grow: from public administration to companies, passing through schools. How many guys are behind! We know that in the inner areas, in the disadvantaged territories of our country - fortunately, they are still inhabited - many have not been able to participate in the lessons at a distance during the pandemic. We need all the territories of the country to be put in a level playing field, as our Constitution says, so that we can all progress together for a better Italy. All the costs to accompany the transition must have equality in mind, and this is something that the Democratic Party is particularly concerned about. I am trying to come to the conclusion by focusing briefly on energy, which is certainly a topical issue. You said that in this case too the strategy to be followed must be common, in order to store and acquire natural gases that allow us to be more calm from this point of view. The issue of migration flows is another topic that I care about, but I know that Senator Alfieri will deal with it in a broader way. I come from a city that had a mayor, La Pira, who in 1970 told Paul VI that the world must be unified because so it is stronger: the world must be unified by making bridges everywhere and tearing down walls. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u12	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u13	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I will not repeat what you have already said, which in essence I agree with. It will certainly be at a European summit with some change: the Czech Republic has a new president, Austria's "royal baby" will no longer be there. I would just like to add two points to what you said, the first of which concerns Poland, Hungary and Slovenia. Frankly, by pulling far and wide, not only do we not make progress, but we allow these countries to make steps back. Either these countries realize that the European Union is not an ATM and not even the menu of a restaurant, so I take this and leave that other one, or I think that our caution - let's say this - will be an incentive to make things even worse. The idea that the National Court prevails over European law is precisely the break-up of the European Union as such. So that's more than moving on! We are trying or, at least, some are trying to have and impose another vision of Europe. In the meantime, this enormous effort by the Conference on Europe, on which I am perhaps the only one to have great doubts, is still going on, for the simple reason that, among the eight subjects before the debate, I am missing the most important one, that is, the institutional issue. I remain convinced that, if we fail to put the unanimous vote in the Council of Heads of State or Government in the drawer, we will not go anywhere, neither on the migrants nor, with good peace from Macron, on the Europe de la santé. The Europe de la santé, with the current treaties, cannot be done. It's not done. It's simple. Therefore, the essential point of all this circus which has lasted for more than a year, in which the citizens speak and talk about everything and more, in the end it is the modification of the Treaties, the overcoming of the unanimous vote of the Council and the proactive capacity of the European Parliament. These are, in my opinion, the essential issues. Of course, you will discuss many issues. One of the things I've been saying since I was a girl is that I don't know any more opaque organizations than the European summits. There is never even, except for a few drafts of the press, the agenda of the proceedings. There is no, but you will say it later, each at the press conference and having won everyone who knows what extraordinary battle. So, I wanted to give you some suggestions. Point one: Poland, Hungary and Slovenia, because this virus either stops at once or risks spreading. Europe is both there and, therefore, we can also allow ourselves to violate its treaties. Europe is there anyway; when we need it, when we don't need it, we don't use it. The other point, which in the corridors, but I hope even in plenary, I would like to remind you, before it goes into the forgetfulness of our brief memory, is Afghanistan. I have a conviction, not just from a humanitarian point of view. At least let us not pretend to be surprised if hundreds of thousands of refugees arrive; let us at least try not to be stupid. It is clear, in fact, that people will not remain there in the middle of civil war, if this happens, as I think will happen. Moreover, the axis of alliances is also being changed. Afghanistan, which we, for reasons, among others, of geopolitics wanted to pull towards the Western European camp, is rapidly moving towards the Putin camp and China, for obvious reasons. It is enough to open a map to understand very well the interests, Chinese in particular, on the territory of Afghanistan. As for the agreements made in Doha between the United States and its allies (I have not yet understood who they are: us, NATO, we without our knowledge? We do not know) and the Taliban, of which we know less: of course, there was Baradar, we saw him, but who else sat on the other side of the table? And the four-page, shriveled final document not only does not mention the issue of human rights at all, but focuses on the fight against terrorism. Now, it is quite strange that NATO, the United States or whatever intelligence services you want and our presence on the ground have not seen the so-called ISIS-K grow, root and operate. It is really strange, and yet, evidently, it was so well-rooted and so well-organized that, two days after Kabul Airport, it managed to organize two terrorist attacks, with a large number of victims, and it continues to rage every week, as it did three days ago at funerals. So much so that even the Americans were forced to say that the Taliban, whoever they are, are not respecting the pacts; not only do they not respect them, but the greatest warlords on the black lists of the FBI or the United Nations are in the government, both as Minister of Defence, with the mullah Yaqoob, and as Minister of the Interior, with a member of the Haqqani clan. Anyone who has ever set foot in Afghanistan knows what it's like to pronounce the name Haqqani: one of the cruelest warlords you've ever seen. Italy has behaved very well, thanks to the President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Undersecretary and all of us, because it has taken the only initiative that makes sense now at international level: the establishment of a special rapporteur on Afghanistan, which helps us not to turn off all the lights and which has as its institutional task precisely to report to the Human Rights Council every year or every six months. Look, it's the only initiative that has been hired - and I like to have been part of it from the beginning - so as not to turn off the lights, which have already gone out, apart from some brave journalist who on site, as long as he can (for a short while) does reports. From this point of view, maybe we'll talk about it again... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u14	Thank you, Senator Bonino. You can hand over your work to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u15	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u16	Mr Alberti Casellati, President Draghi, members of the Government, colleagues, we need a strong and effective European Union, a European Union that is a global leader in the transition to sustainable development, climate-neutral and digitally driven. We need a European Union in which we can all identify ourselves, sure that we have done everything possible for future generations. Together we can achieve this goal. These are not my words, President Draghi, but of President Sergio Mattarella, who addressed them to the citizens of the Union on the occasion of the Day of Europe, on 9 May, making us rediscover the importance and strength of a united Europe and solidarity; the one that suspends the Stability Pact, which revises the rules in order to face united the scourge of the pandemic, which decides to govern together the economic consequences, with an investment programme financed for the first time with a common debt. I would like to focus on one point, which I believe is fundamental and which covers every subject, from immigration to energy, digitalization, to the issue of the Covid-19: the central role of the valorisation of our essential raw material, human capital. [[Applause]] Human capital will play a key role in getting out of the tunnel. Everything that is culture, training, creativity and research will be indispensable for relaunching. How beautiful, President Draghi, to hear you say about the need and willingness to invest in science and research. This is the role of the institutions, which must become the pillar in support of our development and growth. And how beautiful, President Draghi, to hear you say that without State transitions will not happen. Every point you have highlighted today is shared by us and you will find work in this Parliament to improve and create the conditions for sharing with the citizens you want. There are the famous resources of the Next generation EU, luckily entrusted to the competence and its recognized authority, President Draghi, because you will have to invest it, as Europe asks us, to make it the engine of the recovery and development of the country. And we will be at your side, at work, to bring you requests and needs, to encourage, through correct information and sharing, that work of conversion and the transition necessary to bring Italy to the centre of Europe and - why not? - to the center of the world. How nice to hear you say, President Draghi, that the transition must not frighten, but must become the opportunity to create and increase jobs; here again the need to invest enormously in training to govern innovation returns. On the issue of energy, given that we fully agree with the European Union's choices and objectives on the Fit for 55 package and zero emissions, this must not be done by violating our production system, with social consequences that are difficult to assess. On this we met with Deputy Minister Picchetto Fratin just the other night. The costs of the transition must not fall on the citizens and we know that the Government is working for this, intervening to strengthen the economic data in improvement and recover delays without burdening businesses and families, so that public investment is truly functional to the achievement of the sustainable development goals identified by the 2030 Agenda. I recommend, President, and forgive me for the fuss on this issue, but this morning there was a great deal of excitement about the extension of the superbonus to 110% to the condominium units alone: ecobonus must be maintained, extended and extended. [[Applause]] There are other measures that can be cut. We need to pursue sustainability at all levels, we need to know how to combine environmental sustainability, economic sustainability and social sustainability, and the impoverishment and blocking of the country system. In order to create the balance between environmental protection and the maintenance of social well-being, technological innovation needs to be focussed on. So enough of the fear of new plants, enough of the fear of innovation; only through innovation and the government of innovation through training will we be able to make a huge leap. And how beautiful, President Draghi, to hear you speak of public-private alliance to accompany the conversions, corporate and cultural reskills that must be assisted and supported, through effective reforms, as this Government is doing, simplification, with Minister Brunetta, and digitisation of public administration. Italy is the country that has made the ingenuity its raw material. It is a country whose structure is formed by small and medium-sized industries, manufacturing and production activities. It is a country where the free initiative produces masterpieces, but it is also a country where the ability to create product and work is curbed, put in difficulty and opposed by a complex bureaucratic system, unjustified and now pletoral for a country that not only has to demonstrate resilience - this is what you, President Draghi, said, with a Darwinian hint that has remained deeply impressed to me - but needs growth and evolution. I shall confine myself to the text of my speech, which I will deliver, on specific issues of gas. The process of installing renewables must be speeded up in order to get away from the cost of gas as soon as possible. To make this process - return to bomb - we need simplifications, regulatory certainty and rules to ensure the efficiency of public administration. I think we're on the right track. Forza Italia is in favour of new sustainable technologies that can make us self-sufficient in energy supply. And it clearly rejects any ideological position that arises from a total lack of information and does nothing but damage. Also on clean nuclear, let us inform ourselves about the difference between fission and fusion: it is important. Madam President, I'm gonna stop here... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u17	The Presidency shall authorise it to hand over the remainder of the intervention to the effect that it is annexed to the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u18	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u19	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Draghi, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on energy prices and, therefore, on expensive electricity and gas bills: not only an Italian phenomenon, but also a European and a global one. The heavy increases affect our economic activities, which see further weakening their competitiveness on European and international markets, which have benefited from lower energy prices for years, and affect families, both directly in bills and the inevitable increases in consumer prices due to increases in production costs. The risk of inflation is very high. The causes: 20 percent - said Vice President Timmermans - concern the increase in CO2 prices and, therefore, the direct effect of the targets of push decarbonisation; the remaining 80 percent depends on the increase in natural gas costs. Here the rules of the market and a perfect storm have been deflagrating. There is a surge in global energy demand as a result of the post-Covid economic recovery; there are bottlenecks in supply of gas from Russia; there has been calmness in the North Sea, which has left wind power plants in ruins. And so in the last year for gas we've seen 600 percent increase. Many, superficially, have spotted precisely in the gas the culprit of the dear energies and, therefore, down to demonize him to exclude him. On the other hand, I believe that the surge in demand is also linked to the transition for conversions of coal-fired power stations, and this is also the case in China; for the decarbonisation of steel mills; for the greater production of aluminium and China, which looks forward, from bauxite is producing much more aluminium, which they and we need for the ecological transition. Beijing is capturing raw materials and energy products - even the US shale gas is now going to China - while Italy and Europe are in danger of remaining dry. More: Beijing, precisely because it now wants to get rid of the expensive gas, continues to build new coal-fired power stations and maximizes the production of this product in its own mines. They care not to pollute, but to produce at low costs. [[Applause]] In short, natural gas, by many repudiated, is overwhelmingly exercising its strategic role as an energy source accompanying the ecological transition. We are at an alarming situation: now the cost of energy is out of control and is no longer compatible with the activities of the intensive gas companies, so much so as to determine the suspension of activities and productions. The risk of expensive energy remaining in the coming months, and even becoming structural, is very high and could undermine economic recovery. Yesterday we have had a confirmation: the Authority of regulation for energy networks and environment (ARERA), in audition in Senate, previews for the first trimester of next year a ulterior increment. How can you blame her? The single national price has been above 220-230 euros per megawattora for days, a much higher level than those that led to the increase at the end of September. I come to European recipes on expensive energy. I welcome the immediate ad hoc measures for the protection of vulnerable consumers and businesses. But on medium-term measures, Prime Minister Draghi, are we sure that, as we want to proceed, the green transition to clean energy must be accelerated because it is considered the best way out of this drama and to prevent further shocks in the future? Are we sure that an energy system characterized by so many renewables is the only solution and translates into more affordable wholesale energy prices? Are we sure we can stop gas investments and divert them exclusively on renewables, thinking, perhaps without nuclear power, that they can respond to the demand for global energy, growing despite the sacred interventions of energy efficiency? Let's not joke, with photovoltaic only and wind power, we're not going anywhere. [[Applause]] It is not just a matter of protecting the landscape and agricultural areas that can be cultivated. The big problem is that these renewable sources - admitted and not allowed that we will be able to recover the heavy delays in new installation capacity - are not programmable and produce only when there is wind and sunshine. It is very simple and even trivial. Storage systems are far from technologically ready, developed and distributed throughout the territory. In addition, the necessary and costly development of transmission, distribution and electricity charging infrastructure should be considered. Europe's recipes frankly do not convince me. President Draghi, according to the League, the ecological transition must be gradual and pragmatic, without ideological drive to decarbonisation that threatens to bring our businesses to their knees. Beware of the easy enthusiasms - real drunkenness for renewables only - for the immediate no to fossils (Greta Thunberg style) for only green hydrogen, for the only electric mobility and for the absurd plastic free. [[Applause]] The ecological transition must above all be shared, as you said earlier, Mr Draghi. There is no way that Europe, responsible for only 8-9 percent of CO2 emissions, does the first in the class and is carbon neutral at 2050 and that other countries (from China which, with 28% of CO2 being the largest polluter on the planet) do not make the same commitments. [[Applause]] The ecological transition must ensure the sacrosanct principle of technological neutrality, because all technologies that contribute to decarbonisation must be used and - like it or not - natural gas is not dead. We must have the humility to admit that the energy sources to decarbonise during the ecological transition are low carbon natural gas and zero-emission nuclear. With regard to the clean nuclear energy of the fourth generation, I recall that France has 56 nuclear power stations and that the British Government, which has at the heart of its energy transition strategy, aims to incorporate atomic energy in order to decarbonise by 2050. Investment must therefore be made to adequately respond to the demand for gas, which will remain high over time and serve to decarbonise. President Draghi, you are an authoritative premier when, tomorrow and Friday, you discuss with the other Heads of State and Government, you assert pragmatism in Europe. We need to reduce Europe's energy dependence and our Italian energy dependence (by 95%) on gas, including by using more of its natural resources and investing in diversifying sources of supply to ensure the security of the energy system. We need to negotiate with Russia that provides 50% of gas to Europe, also to avoid bitter surprises in the winter that might be rigid. Common rules should be laid down for the management of security of gas supply and for the regulation of storage and stocks. In the sustainable finance package, among the criteria of green investment taxonomy, we agree to eliminate oil and coal. But the strategic accompanying role of natural gas in the ecological and energy transition needs to be reconsidered, both for the purpose of reducing energy costs and for ensuring stability, security and resilience of the energy system. I remember that Germany, with North Stream 2, has already secured itself. President Draghi, in our home, in preparing for a next intervention to cope with the increases of the first quarter 2022, we seriously think about a reorder of the discipline of the system charges and of the other items in the bill, such as the transport costs; as well as to consider the possibility of carrying out a measure of equity, such as a temporary levy on the extra profits and the inframarginal rents of which different benefit in this situation. Let me take a look at Fit For 55. The package formalized by the Commission last July has many problems. The extension of the EU ETS system to other sectors such as road transport and construction - which means other taxes - and, above all, the ban from 2035 on internal combustion cars with the sole electric model chosen by the German automotive industry is insane. This prediction is absurd. [[Applause]] It's crazy to get into a tight leg and erase the latest generation Euro 6 and 7 cars, those powered by low carbon fuels, the Biomethane one, the Hybrid ones, which are also capable of reducing CO2 emissions, to the benefit of electric cars that are falsely classified as zero-emission vehicles. It is hypocritical to still measure the emissions to the exhaust pipe: the electric also pollutes in its life cycle. This ban undermines the principle of technological neutrality; it destroys the Italian mechanical sector, the automotive sector and the refining industry and it deceives on the protection of the environment. Speaking of social impact, I remember that Volkswagen, precisely for electric mobility, announced 30,000 redundancies. President Draghi, fight... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u20	Senator Toninelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u21	President Draghi, the European Council in which you will participate is an important occasion for our country because, as well as the policies of contrast to the Covid, we will also talk about digital transformation and energy prices, priority themes for the Movimento 5 Stars and for all Italians. We all know - President - that, because of short-sighted political choices carried out in the last twenty-thirty years, in Italy there are still few people who have a decent Internet connection and the production of electricity from renewable sources is still too low, so as to reduce costs both in bills and environmental. Where does the Italian National Recovery Plan go? Mainly in the following areas: digital and ecological transition. Unlike the past, today in addition to the ecological push of the Movimento 5 Stars there is one more factor: we have the money for a green and digital revolution, a unique and extraordinary opportunity obtained by its predecessor Giuseppe Conte and that now she must realize, transforming the money into construction sites and completed works by the end of 2026. As I said to you on the day of your inauguration, Mr President, in this unnatural majority of Government, confidence will not be unconditional, but will be weighted on the actions you are taking day by day and, as far as they tell us that everything is always in full swing, reality appears more nebulous, especially on the Italian recovery. The information that comes to this Parliament, President, from the Government is so few and fragmented. Simply enter the government website dedicated to the Italian-Adomans Recovery Plan. gov.it - to understand that there is still little, it is not yet well known who does what, how it does and when it does; as we do not know with certainty the territorial distribution of funds. Yet, President, the 2021 budget law had been clear and provided for the obligation for the Government by 30 June each year, starting this year, 2021, to approve and transmit to the Chambers a report indicating the state of the art on the use of the funds of the National Plan. I remind you that the paragraph was 1045. To date nothing, a delay that I would dare call heavy. Know, President, that until a few months ago in this House, and I do not know how many television, radio and newspaper broadcasts, the government was attacked for much less: it was enough a press conference of its predecessor made in full pandemic to reassure the Italians and explain to them the new anti-Covid rules to make the dictatorship of the DPCM and the degradation of Parliament scream. Everyone in this House will remember that. Today, however, with a government with some delay of a few months in informing Parliament on an important issue such as the Italian recovery, everything is silent. I understand that your great curriculum and international experience have allowed you to have a political and media protective shield, but here we only ask you to respect your commitments. I therefore ask you a couple of specific questions: when will Parliament have all the necessary information available and when will the Italians be able to know what and how much money will be committed on their territories and especially who will have to manage them, so at least we will know who will have to assume the necessary responsibilities in case management goes wrong? If, on the one hand, we know, Mr President, that the blason of his name helps and can help Italy at the decisive European tables, on the other hand, we must remind her that this cannot be enough, because in the end it is the concrete results that matter and which are of interest to the citizens. To date, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the only thing that is certain is that we are playing the future of the next generations and we cannot make mistakes. We are with you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we support you when you oppose those who attack the poor by trying to eliminate their citizenship income. [[Applause]] You were right not to give in to their opportunistic malice to erase it. We know that removing funds from the weakest part of society and diverting them to the many existing collaborations makes the politicians who do so earn money and power. Similarly, we are with you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we support you when you pull it straight with those people who should only be ashamed when they attack the management of public order by Minister Lamorgese. I am not defending the work of his Minister, conscious of the mistakes made, but I am talking about the contortionism of Giorgia Meloni and of Brothers of Italy, who scream against a Minister for not having immediately arrested a criminal who, in the trial of the facts, politically has always gone hand in hand with them, in a reversal of reality that would make laugh if there were no violence. We are with you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you defend the superbonus at 11% by extending it to 2023 for condominiums. [[Applause]] We are not with you when one-family homes are excluded from this extension, as is happening. [[Applause]] Do we want to understand that the important economic recovery that is taking place is mainly due to the boom in the construction sector as a result of the superbonus? This is the most important and impacting measure for happy growth through the transition to an ecological economy: limiting it is a big mistake that we will try to remedy. [[Applause]] We remind you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that this measure is closely linked to another equally important measure, that of the energy communities and, more generally, of energy production from renewable sources. It is a standard plated at 110 percent 5 Star Movement, which will decrease the cost of the bills so increased. This is another issue that you are going to address in Europe and which you should perhaps also address with Mr Cingolani, who - I regret to say - sometimes seems more in love with incinerators and nuclear than with photovoltaics. Moreover, while there is, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, try to point out also to Minister Giovannini that, in a wrong measure, now before the Chamber, it extends in a single stroke the standardization of dealers to the new rules of the Genoa decree and also those of sub-concessions in the oil & non-oil distributors. Which means goodbye to the self-empowering columns. When I come to the conclusion, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I offer an unsolicited advice: to do more for the citizens, especially the latter. Do not take only Confindustria's applause as a barometer of your work. Look for the applause of normal people; explain to them what you are doing today and what you intend to do tomorrow. It starts with doubts and not certainties. You wonder why today there are more social tensions than in the past, when there were no vaccines and today there is the collapse of contagions. The Movimento 5 Stars has been and will always be a loyal but at the same time intransigent force, which does not accept downward agreements to the detriment of Italian citizens. [[Applause]] I shall conclude by wishing her good work and waiting to hear the outcome of the European Council. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u22	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking as coordinator of the European movement, which is part of the Idea and Cambiamo component, thanking my colleague Paolo Romani who gave up his speech. For once we have a few more minutes to talk to Europeans, since in this country it seems that the media in particular want to devote more space to those who are against Europe than those who do not spit on the dish where they eat. We are aware of the importance of this European Council and in this regard we have been able to see the documents provided in an optimal way jointly by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate Republic. And I invite everyone, even those who listen to us, to consult its pages very dense and very well informed. In this regard, I tell you that I have no proclamations to read but only a few considerations to make. The first is that we are very much in agreement with the approach you gave this morning to the speeches made and, therefore, with the position that Italy will have during the Council. Moreover, in recent months all our activities have been based on these very issues and will also be in the near future. I would remind you that we, as Europeans on Europeans, first, in March, when the relevant treaties were signed and talked about the Conference on the New Europe, set up with the friends of the Federalist Movement the concept that this opportunity should not be wasted in order to include the possibility of amending the Treaties, precisely from the point of view of emigration, thus amending the Treaty of Dublin. This is a mandatory institutional transition which, if not addressed by the Conference for the New Europe, will be a missed opportunity. We have already done four events on the European platform of the Conference on the New Europe, dealing, for example, with the subject of the evolution of the digital market that will be at the heart of the European Council; on the sovereignty of data we have, for example, pointed out the importance of Italian and European operators to counter the hegemonic design of American over the top, using their own open source architecture that can make the European market not just a licensing market for Americans, with all due respect for our allies. We then operated in the field of trade. We are pleased that the new US administration can unblock the operation of the World Trade Organisation Tribunal (WTO), as well as that the European Union thinks of its own specific legal forum in this area. We have done so since the time of the Global Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) and we are particularly interested in seeing developments in the European Union's action in the Indochinese area with the ASEAN agreements. All this demonstrates the importance, importance and centrality of the European Union in the global panorama. This should challenge the intellectual honesty of all of us and, in particular, of some colleagues and understand how important it is for Italy to play in this field. Our field of play is that of Europe and Italy has not a trust mission in this regard, but a rational interest in being part of it. Think, for example, of the importance of our foreign trade and the fact that we can move within the framework of agreements which the European Union takes on behalf of 450 million people rather than 60. Our friends in the United Kingdom are well aware that they have come out and that they face a number of difficulties not only in logistics but also in negotiating the international treaties that are now evident. I'm making a nail about friends in the UK. President Draghi, you reminded us that we are co-chairs of COP26. The European Union has its integrity and consistency in its operation, such as, for example, its attention to environmental issues. British friends have recently given up some technical principles on environmental protection in order to conclude a trade agreement with Australia; a very embarrassing issue. This confirms once again the integrity, coherence and the main aspect of the European Union's action, of which we are very proud, and we are very happy to be a part. The European Union is a soft power. We have also analyzed the issue, and we will shortly, on 3 November, make an event about it, about the lack of a common European defence. There are pros and cons in the lack of joint action in this area and we will analyze them in the Senate next November 3. I would now like to confirm two other aspects. The first: in the integrity of the European Union's action and in the interest of Italy to be part of it, there is consistency, as well as with its democratic principles and the protection of the environment, also with respect for its own rules. I would like to focus in particular on my Polish colleagues and on the subject of the primacy of the European Court of Justice. The British based their initiative on this very point, which led to Brexit, denying the primacy. It is clear, it is a Community acquis, primacy is an acquisition of European law. We must not allow the current Polish Government to dump on Europe and only on the outside of internal difficulties: this is a principle that cannot be denied. On the other hand, when Montesquieu in 1748 published "The spirit of the laws," precisely theorizing the separation of powers, Poland experienced, with the Polish-Lithuanian Confederation, the principle of liberum veto, that is, the right of veto of each of the accounts that represented the Polish and Lithuanian communities, which within a few decades led to the dissolution of that democratic experience. It might be useful to remember this historical passage. We believe that the separation of powers and the lesson of Montesquieu is an acquisition of our civilization and our culture, and on this we cannot fail. I believe that the European Parliament is right to remind the Commission of the right on the one hand and the duty on the other to act to enforce the rule of law, the rule of law. Finally, Mr Draghi, I have already mentioned that you will be the most European of those present at the European Council. I say this not only because your name is written on the euro notes we have in our pockets, but also because you represent a significant percentage of Italians resident in Europe. They are at least 3 and a half million members of AIRE, but in reality the number could also be twice that. That is why you have this responsibility. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that, when the European Union deals with trade agreements - and sooner or later, it will also have to close those with the United Kingdom and Switzerland - this affects millions of Italians. In the final analysis, I conclude with a less auspicious subject, but very consistent with the college and the constituency I represent. We made an effort that was awarded, last year, with the approval of legal provisions for the recognition of Italian catering abroad, which represents the showcase of Made in Italy, as well as the greater protection against Italian soiling. We have seen with pleasure that President Macron invited you to a French restaurant for a summit. We ask you to answer in as many terms, when and where you can consider it useful, because many Italian restaurants abroad, which are the ambassadors of Made in Italy, would be proud to host an institutional meeting. We come from a presence at the Anuga, which is the world's largest agri-food fair, in which we have publicly presented these legal provisions; we have been waiting for nine months for the decree of implementation. We also ask you for this attention, as a former Italian abroad and as a representative of the many Italians in Europe. Please go ahead and, in the meantime, good work and good European Council. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for attention to be paid to one item on the agenda of the European Council, namely the increase in the price of energy, on which I very much agree with what you have said in your speech, Mr Draghi. This is an issue with which we will have to deal for many months, with very worrying economic consequences both on the inflation side and the danger of slowing down or even interrupting the recovery. This situation has involved all states, even the most nuclearist ones, however linked to the same rules of price formation on international markets. The government has already given some answers, intervening with subsidies on bills. But a policy of subsidies cannot be the structural solution: it is necessary - for pity's sake - but it does not solve the problem in the medium to long term. Only through structural action on the energy market at European and national level can the problem be solved. The media's confusion did not help to pinpoint the real causes right away. Mr von der Leyen and Mr Timmermans had to be uncomfortable in order to clarify the subject and reiterate that renewables and energy efficiency are the only possible alternative. [[Applause]] We may disagree, but it is the European position that we share. And this is demonstrated by the perfect storm in progress: a strong increase in gas prices, which has occurred in recent months because of the combination of structural and cyclical situations that could continue. The national and European energy system, which is heavily dependent on gas, although it has a diversified infrastructure system, has not been able to escape the dynamics of price increases. Let us come to the proposals. Some people suggest returning to national productions, i.e. to increase drilling on Italian soils and seas, in order to have cheap gas and oil. But these gases and oil would be extracted from private operators and valued always and in any case on the international markets, thus remaining tied to the current price dynamics, which we do not control. [[Applause]] I strongly doubt that these private operators are willing to make new and expensive investments without having any certainty of economic returns. We know that the fossil industry is highly cost-intensive and investment needs several years before it is amortized. Moreover, the national political framework, following also our referendums, is preparing for a strong vine-winding in the restrictive sense: just read the proposal for a Plan for the sustainable energy transition of the suitable areas (PITESAI) that arranges a narrowing of the marine areas drillable and the prohibition of new oil wells on the mainland, with strong limitations also on the gas. Therefore, in its recent communication, the Commission proposes to support businesses and consumers, particularly those in difficulty, but above all to strengthen our energy independence through the transition to clean energy: the best way, according to the Commission, to prevent further future shocks. That is why this transition must be accelerated, also in line with international commitments on climate and energy. In the same way the International Energy Agency, in the past always relatively pro-fossil and always relatively prudent, thinks the same. On the other hand, in its very recent July report, which you, Mr President, will certainly have read - or will have been summarized - the Agency absolutely states that there will be no further investment in fossil fuels. Stop new investments in fossil fuels: says the International Energy Agency. [[Applause]] The Movimento 5 Stars fully shares these proposals. The energy transition process must be fast, for a simple reason: it is cost-effective. Mr Draghi, when I address you, I know that you understand economics and therefore you understand it perfectly. The sooner we do it, the more we save, the more we earn. Renewables and energy efficiency have a key role to play: the first to say it was Nicholas Stern, even in 2007, fourteen years ago, but since then there have been many authoritative studies that overturn the narrative of the greater costs than the benefits for the transition and instead show that before you do and before you can save money, in the order of thousands of billions of dollars. Therefore, supporting renewables and investing in instruments such as energy communities and superbonus to 110% is the key to a structural reduction of energy costs and a calming of the current crisis. It means moving to a renewable, decentralised, efficient and much more resilient model linked to non-risk economic dynamics. The numbers already prove it. Recently the Energy Services Manager (GSE) has calculated that the more than 750,000 households and households, who in our country have already built a photovoltaic system or other renewable source in self-consumption, have avoided and scanned for a third the increase in the cost of energy, because in part they use their own energy. Similar advantages have also been found for nearly 110,000 companies, which have also built a renewable plant, with which they are self-fueled. In addition, of course, the results in terms of savings and reductions in supplies, achieved thanks to efficiency interventions, also driven by the superbonus: these are facts that show how these interventions have reduced the recent increases. Therefore, implementing the model of self-consumption of renewable energy shifts savings and, therefore, gains in favour of citizens, businesses and local authorities. And this can be done through the establishment of energy communities they themselves manage. [[Recalls of the President]] We also believe that it is essential to extend the application of the superbonus to single-family buildings as well. [[Applause]] They are instruments that must also be supported to strengthen the national technological and production chain and to offer the economic system an important added value, avoiding the risk of crisis. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what has just been mentioned for the sake of time are real, concrete solutions within reach and embrace a vision which, if pursued, will bring about a structural improvement in economic, environmental and social conditions. As Movimento 5 Stars we appeal to its responsibility and to that of the Government, so that on the decision-making tables, European and non-European, a renewable energy model, efficient, decentralised and driven towards the electrification of consumption, is supported and implemented. This must also be done... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u25	Senator Girotto, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u26	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u27	Mr President, the European Council convened on 21 and 22 October between the items on the agenda will have precisely the recent increase in energy prices and the possible measures to be taken at both national and European levels to address the effects of price increases themselves. The first comment I feel like making is the following: finally! Italians have been literally terrified by the announcements of crazy increases in energy prices for two months. As in the game of the lotto, the numbers follow: first 30, then 40 and finally 60 percent increase compared to the previous year. Mr President, it is a sort of hidden tax that will affect mainly families, workers and businesses, which are already exhausted by a pandemic that this majority has not been able to respond effectively and promptly. I do, however, acknowledge to this Government, after the initial and even sudden announcement of Minister Cingolani, that in some way they have tried to find a solution. Mr President, if you intend to solve the consequences of this hidden tax with EUR 3 billion, I will tell you right away that you are wrong. In fact, if prices of raw materials continue to rise, unfortunately the three billion will be insufficient both in the medium and above all in the long term. At the same time as the resources for buffering, an initiative is needed at European level to combat a global issue that does not only concern our country. We hope that European intervention will be timely and not be the usual hot cloth, that is to say a postponement. It should be noted that this spectrum has been around Europe since the beginning of the winter season. The energy prices that determine those of light and gas paid by citizens are on the increase. Increases are set to rise, especially if unexpected interruptions occur in gas supplies or strong waves of cold, which will clearly increase demand and consequently also cost. Uncertain responses from Europe do not help to calm these gloomy prospects and European consumers. This uncertain action does not allow any kind of confidence to be established in companies that would have to invest capital in order to have remuneration for a long period. And this is even more necessary at a time of economic recovery, as I said before. How can one imagine, if at this stage they are facing such an uncertain economic picture, what will they be able to do and how they will be able to organize their activities at unclear costs and that they might also suffer sudden surges? Mr President, we are calling for future planning and vision, clear and not stuttering. We must not necessarily pursue the ecological transition at all costs, because talking about green and clean energy does not make sense for citizens if they suffer a 50% or 60% increase in the cost of bills. Mr President, there is no point in banning the adaptation of the European energy market to the rule for the protection of the weak consumer if the pole comes in the winter months, but above all without any warning. We demand less announcements and less idealization of reality: more pragmatism and concrete solutions are needed. You have to have a vision. Mr President, that is what is missing. That is what the citizens ask and that is what the Brothers of Italy ask you to represent in Europe. We must make clear once and for all the energy policy of our country and above all the targets to be achieved. However, this must not be done month by month, but year by year, at European level but also at national level, because there can be no facilitation measures for energy efficiency such as superbonus 110 and then not extend its duration or ensure medium to long-term stabilisation. It is not conceivable to wait every year for the budget law regarding measures such as the energy bonus or the invoice discount, which have represented - for good and bad - the real flywheel of the real economy of our country, especially with regard to construction. Mr President, we demand that we have vision and above all efficiency and concreteness to give the answers that citizens need at this time, especially after the pandemic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u29	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, we are here today to hold a debate with a view to the next European Council to be held tomorrow and Friday, as everyone knows. It is an appointment that has become Parliament's practice, which allows us parliamentarians to better understand and understand the issues on the agenda, to discuss them together and to try to provide the Government with guidance that can support it in political action. In this sense, this debate - and I am also talking about my institutional role as President of the European Affairs Commission of the Senate - has a fundamental political value, because it allows us to enter into the political dynamics of the European Council, to better grasp its functioning in relations between States. In this spirit we have prepared ourselves for today's sitting, with a resolution, which we will vote on shortly, to which we have worked in recent days together with the Undersecretary Amendola, whom I thank for his helpfulness and sensitivity, and with the contribution of all the Groups that make up the majority of the Government: the resolution has been signed by all. It was a complex work, which allowed us to achieve a synthesis, which is in the summary of the various points of the resolution I signed. Of course, we have kept to the points on the European Council's agenda: the fight against Covid, digital, migratory phenomena in their external dimension, as requested by our Government. We have also discussed other points - perhaps we are discussing them here today too - which are not formally on the agenda, but which are going through the political agenda these days. I am referring, Mr President, to the question of the rule of law and its particular declination - and I would like to put it mildly - which is being done in states such as Hungary and Poland. We discussed this a few days ago with Vice-President Jurova, to whom we have expressed all our deepest concerns. There is a dialogue on the rule of law, an informal procedure that we started a few years ago just under our Presidency of the Union; there is the issue of the procedure of Article 7 of the Treaty; there are infringement procedures. With these instruments, I believe that the European Union can guarantee compliance with the rules by all those States which believe that they are above European law, effectively disowning - as Poland has recently done - the principle of the primacy of European law over states. You will discuss this at the European Council, Mr President, perhaps even in the margins of official work, it is important that Italy, which is and must be alongside the European institutions, should arrive at the reaffirmation of one of the fundamental principles in the construction of the European House, which must be defended and confirmed where it is being called into question. Once this incipit has been clarified, I shall return to the subjects on the agenda. Mr President, Italy is struggling, but more and more decisively, going up the slope after the dramatic period of the pandemic, with a vigorous and incisive government action, which its Government, our Government, President Draghi, is carrying out in recent months and which has already allowed to recover many jobs, confidence in the future and strong international credibility. It is now up to us, the ruling class of the country, to make us worthy of this trust, following the many challenges contained in the PNRR. We have worked hard on this, even here in Parliament, and now we must try to reap the benefits, since the reforms and investments of the Plan will allow the Italian community to recover after the very hard months of the pandemic. They will have to help us to reconnect to the best industrial traditions of our country and to reconnect the threads of a relationship with the European institutions and other Member States that is up to the challenge we face. In the resolution we are about to vote on, Mr President, you will find a number of points which I would like to highlight with flashes as qualifying points in the Senate's position. We have had some shortcomings in the construction of Europe with regard to the issue of health, which is true to be a national competence, but which can be better exercised at European level. The vaccine was the most obvious example. That is why we call on the Government to support the finalisation of the EU legislative package for health, to provide quality health care and to reduce inequalities. We also call on the Government to develop the digital theme, while continuing to pursue the objectives of the EU cyber security strategy at the same time, also in order to contribute to the development of realistic and credible industrial and defence capabilities while respecting national prerogatives. As well as asking the Government to take steps to achieve a European structural management of migration, overcoming the obvious negotiating and political deadlock in the management of flows. Mr President, we are faced with a complicated scenario, but with its authoritative leadership Italy is playing an important part, even more decisive in a situation in which Germany is going through a period of political transition and France is approaching next year's presidential elections. We have a duty to believe and play the game with the role that belongs to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, President Draghi, the pandemic that has upset the world has also had a significant impact on the policies of the European Union. In the face of suffering and an economy torn apart, we have finally seen a Europe of solidarity, worthy of the project of its founding fathers. In this context, Italy was at first simply benefiting from the historic decisions taken by the Union: I am referring to the PNRR, thanks to the foresight of Chancellor Merkel and President Macron. Today, however, thanks to its arrival at Palazzo Chigi and the strength of a majority of this Parliament, which has decided to support its Government by going beyond mere electoral interests, the country is in a position to play a leading and leading role in the Union. In fact, the German electoral round gives us a more fragile Germany, in which parts of the majority that seems to be formed are promoters of austerity policies; this hypothesis must be absolutely avoided, because those policies have failed and reactivate them would mark a setback in the process of European growth and integration. In the next Council, therefore, it will be important to continue working in the wake of solidarity, keeping the fight against the Covid-19 at the heart of the coordinated action of the States until we have defeated it. Italy, also thanks to the courageous choice of the green pass, has achieved satisfactory results in vaccinations. The effectiveness of the virus containment measures are finally getting us out of the emergency. We appreciate the government's clarity and determination to protect public health, aware of the need not to lower our guard. The attention must be kept high, in order to avoid what is happening in countries such as the United Kingdom, where the "free all" has re-exploded the contagions, or Russia, where the poor vaccine coverage has recorded in the last twenty-four hours more than a thousand deaths. The pandemic has taught us that the virus has no frontiers. It is therefore essential that we continue our common commitment against this invisible enemy, in order to prevent a leopard-stained situation from causing things to fall again. This also comes from the need, President, for there to be greater commitment to fighting fake news, traveling fast on the Net and affecting the behaviour of many. In addition to the Covid-19, there are several issues on the table of the European Council, but although the subject of Poland is not formally on the agenda, given the letter from the twelve countries with which we are asking to evaluate the construction of a wall to protect the borders, in order to discourage the arrival of migrants, I believe that it is necessary here to reflect on these two events. On behalf of a party, Forza Italia, which has one of its founding principles in Europeanism, we can only be puzzled by what the Warsaw Constitutional Court has decided, which has called into question the supranational character of the Union. I believe there is an urgent need for clarification on this, in order to avoid any further flight from other Member States, which would only undermine the spirit and the construction of a Union on which we are working very hard, in small steps. The question raised by the Polish court, President Draghi, also raises us with a direct question: what is Europe going to decide? Using what method? Decisions unanimously paralyse action. Do we want to try to make other subjects subject to the Community method? I am referring, for example, to fiscal policies, for which Italy pays a very high price for the lack of harmonisation in the field of direct taxes, due precisely to the logic of unanimity. I believe that the Polish judgment also raises the question of what we want to become Europe in the coming years. With regard to the initiative of the twelve Member States aimed at strengthening the control of land borders, it is clear that, if this were to happen, our country would suffer a further intensification of migratory flows by sea, arriving on the southern coasts through the Turkish route, also following the worsening of the Afghan crisis. Popularism tries to give simple answers to complex problems, but the problems remain such, with the ideological lens of those who want, on the one hand, to raise walls and, on the other, to open the borders. Thanks to the Italian initiative, the migration issue has been addressed by the European Council at the end of June, as did not happen since 2018. In the conclusions of that Council, the Commission was asked to present plans for cooperation with countries that most pose problems of flows to Italy, including Afghanistan, Libya, Tunisia, Nigeria and Morocco. The Commission has also been invited to make use of the necessary funding. Like you, we believe that all routes in the Mediterranean have equal dignity. It is therefore essential that, with the re-edition of the large contribution to Turkey, the next European Council should give the decisive impetus to define and finance cooperation also with other countries of origin and transit, which must be put in a position to prevent departures and to have effective instruments for development. And of course - but we have said this dozens of times - we need to reform the Dublin agreement. The Council will also address external relations issues and international commitments. Europe's role in the world cannot be separated from a common foreign and defence policy, as Forza Italia and our President Berlusconi have long been demanding. If we want a strong Union, we must make European friends understand that foreign and defence policy is closely interlinked. But - and this is the essential point - we must understand European policies in the very sense of the word, pooling choices and subjecting them to the rule of the majority. The recent increase in energy prices and the measures to be taken to reduce the impact on our economy will also be discussed in Brussels in the coming days. Mr President, let us secure families and businesses and make the most of the opportunities that the European Commission offers us and the instruments that enable us to adopt at national level. These include temporary extensions for the payment of bills, income support, aid for companies, targeted tax reductions. As you said, Mr President, first steps have already been taken, but let us continue along this path with courage: we will give back oxygen to the Italians. I conclude with a reflection on the Stability and Growth Pact, on which we are all in agreement, I think. In the coming weeks the debate will open on this topic and the more Italy will be able to carry out the reforms and investments foreseen by the PNRR, respecting the timing we have set ourselves, the more we will be able to ask for flexibility and the exclusion of some investment expenses, such as those related to renewable energy and digital. The other Member States will have to be convinced and compliance with the commitments made will certainly be the best route. In the light of all this, Mr President, I wish you a good job and not just in view of the European Council, because there will be a lot to do from here to the next few months and we will work together in the spirit that we have had up to now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u32	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u33	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council convened for tomorrow and Friday will address important issues: the pandemic, digital, climate, biodiversity, the next summits with Asia and Europe, energy prices and immigration. When this Parliament approved the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, it was aware that those EUR 235 billion are tied to reforms that our country should do with fixed deadlines. In order to be able to respond to the planned investment deadlines, as the League we immediately proposed to adapt the rules on the procurement code to the European one and to follow up the Union's recommendations for a serious reform of justice. This is also why, precisely in these months as a League, we have gathered, thanks to our volunteers, hundreds of thousands of signatures in thousands of Italian squares on six referendaries, in order to encourage Parliament to carry out a serious and concrete reform of justice, which really protects all Italian citizens and thus responds to the constraints imposed by Brussels. We, with our referendary action, want to give the Italians the opportunity to express themselves in one of the highest forms of democracy and direct democratic participation, so as to prevent anyone, even of this majority, from reducing or even wrecking a reform that citizens have been waiting for years and that will be prodromic to obtaining the resources of the PNRR, fundamental for the recovery of our country. On the subject of immigration, Mr President, the data are clear: since the beginning of the year, 50,450 illegal illegal immigrants have landed on our coasts (from 19 October 2021), all this while the so called European solidarity does not take off at all, leaving our country completely alone. In the same period of 2020 there were 26,168 entries and in 2019 9,148. I would remind you, Mr President, that the defence of borders in 2019 cost the then Minister Matteo Salvini two trials: an unprecedented fact in republican history. [[Applause]] We have repeatedly appreciated your words of reference to the joint responsibility of the countries of the European Union. It is not acceptable that while our country struggles every day in the management of migrants, there are countries, such as Denmark, where left-wing democrats have a very large majority of motions passed to avoid even having hotspots on Danish soil. These policies are discriminatory not only towards migrants, but also and above all towards Italy and the Italians, in the face of any idea of relocation and shared management. That would be the European left that calls itself the Social Democrat. [[Applause]] We, the President, must find a structured, stable and permanent mechanism for the compulsory redistribution of migrants who arrive on the territory of the countries of the European Union; either this, or we will continue to see people die in the Mediterranean and to have an Italy left alone by the other European States. Particular attention must be paid to the protection of our agri-food industry. Too many times we have felt alone in defending our agriculture and our fishing. Once again we call for the Italian Parliament to be united in defending our excellences. Last, in chronological terms, is that of Prosecco wine, a name that risks being banned by Croatian Prošek, which would affect one of the Italian productions of excellence. It is an Italian sounding within the European Union and this is absolutely not good. [[Applause]] We have already dealt with this issue in this House with the competent Minister and the Agriculture Commission in a resolution adopted unanimously and which will soon come to this House. But you, Mr Draghi, must commit yourself to defending this excellence of ours, which is worth 500 million bottles and over 2.4 billion consumer revenue. With regard to the actions aimed at implementing the policies of the European green deal, in particular measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, they must necessarily be pursued gradually without impacting on the eating habits and lifestyles of consumers, and oriented towards a balanced consumption of all foods, according to the model of the Mediterranean diet, confirming the centrality of the role of food made in Italy for the national economy. We do not need lessons from those who want to impose synthetic meat or universal food. [[Applause]] Mr President, we want the consumer to be free to choose according to food seasonality, because, as you know, nature offers us different products every month. Respect for seasonality is reflected also and above all in respect of the environment and the planet, and allows us to feed with products of higher quality at a lower price, because the products are there and are fresh. [[Applause]] The European Union must also recognise the strategic nature of Italian food supply chains, from durum wheat to pasta, oil, fruit and vegetables, and flora, with particular reference to the extraordinary potential of our livestock sector (milk, meat and eggs). With regard to this sector, several measures should be taken to increase the profitability of businesses, farmers, farmers and, on the other hand, to ensure the sustainability of investments, both as regards animal welfare and as regards environmental protection. I quote this issue not by chance: just yesterday the European Parliament wrote a page full of shadows on the future of agriculture and zootechnics. In fact, a report on the farm to fork, the European strategy that should decline all these objectives, is being discussed at this very hour. We started off on the wrong foot: the European Commission is moving forward in forced stages, without an overall impact assessment, deconstructing the negative results of several studies already published. Both the US State Department's and the Commission's studies underline the heavy loss of productivity of European farms, with the consequent increase in prices, the consequent risk of the uncontrolled increase in imports, the possible negative spiral of the livestock sector still in the sight of the environment as a living room for faults that derive from an ideological and non-scientific approach to the topic of sustainability and animal welfare. One last issue concerns climate change. Mr President, in our country, agriculture has suffered a loss of EUR 14 billion over the last ten years due to drought, clouds, floods and climate change. We need to think of a sustainability policy on infrastructure, especially with regard to irrigation. Food is made for 90 percent of water and this is a theme we must not forget. The first projects financed have started, but more needs to be done: we need to be able to direct the procurement legislation correctly and to ensure that farmers can be sure that the investments they put into the field are made. Mr Draghi, you have said before that state intervention is necessary for many issues, and I think that this is fundamental. Good work, President Draghi. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u35	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I start from the second part of your speech and I will then return to the section on health. You have stressed the importance of state intervention in order to strengthen or even create the processes of ecological and digital transition, but in our opinion other sectors of the economy also need public intervention to create wealth, jobs and entire production chains. In this respect, we hope that an anti-historical and anti-economic injury can soon be freed, according to which State intervention is distorting the market or not efficient. On the contrary, if carried out in the right way, it is the engine of progress and development, as demonstrated by the measure that we strongly wanted of the super bonus 110 percent. In this respect, you referred to the increase in the costs of certain raw materials. This was particularly true in the field of construction and probably due to a limited horizon of the super bonus 110 percent. If it had been extended when the Movimento 5 Stars asked for it, this would have allowed better planning and, consequently, no or limited increase in prices compared to what, unfortunately, we find instead. With regard to the digital transition, the objective is that, together with Europe, digital European sovereignty is consolidated and so many jobs are created in this primary sector of the economy. Digital is an area that can only develop and be strengthened if we invest heavily in the training of high professionalism and specialisation in a number far greater than today. This means planning, from primary school onwards, the development of mathematical and scientific skills integrated into our traditional humanistic and ethical values, with the aim of pre-empting the time for the acquisition of fundamental skills to achieve digital transformation in the role of protagonist and not mere commodity. This is why we need trained and qualified teachers and we need to invest in them. The issue of competences and human capital must be the first, also because it is precisely here that we are weaker, placing ourselves at the last place among the 28 countries of the European Union, according to the DESI index. On the subject of cybersecurity we are very pleased with the establishment of the National Cybersecurity Agency. This is a fundamental presence for the defence of our public strategic assets and our private companies. We have invested to recruit the best professionals in the Agency and in sufficient quality to play the role entrusted to them. On the other hand, we demand that citizens also be protected when it comes to the management of personal data. The Data Protection Supervisor is still undersized and we need to invest resources and upgrade it. On the other hand, returning to the initial part of your speech, the next European Council will have the epidemiological and vaccination situation on the agenda. This point once again, you see, goes our country in the right direction, thanks to the courageous measures taken. In the first place, a virtuous vaccination campaign has demonstrated not only a broad response from citizens (to date 81.55 percent of the population over 12 is vaccinated), but also a safe and indisputable effectiveness of vaccines approved by the EMA and the Italian Agency of the drug. Not only that, the measure of the green pass and the recent expansion of the places where it is compulsory to exhibit the green certification (with particular reference to those of work) have allowed and will, as we hope, allow a constant decrease of the contagions, demonstrating - it must be reiterated again - the effectiveness of the vaccines and an efficient and prudent management of the epidemiological emergency, which sees us always at the forefront of the other countries. This also emerges in view of data from other countries, such as Romania, Latvia or the United Kingdom, which certainly differ from ours not only because of the increase in infection, but also because of the relaxation of the restrictions imposed to stem the pandemic crisis. The increase in the number of cases in these countries shows how necessary measures are still needed to limit and control contagions. However, according to the 5 Star Movement, the price of so-called antigenic swabs cannot be excluded from certain modifications, from the price of the so-called antigenic swabs until, if the epidemiological situation continues to improve, the prevention measures currently in force have been replaced. Not only that, we can no longer postpone the adoption of serological tests that measure neutralising anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in order to obtain the green pass or the exemption from it, as they are already doing in other countries, such as Austria, where the green pass is obtained with validity of 90 days subject to a serological test that is positive. If we were to adopt the same criterion, we would also solve the problem of all those people who have vaccinated themselves with vaccines not authorised by the EMA without the need for further ad hoc measures. In addition, we believe that targeted serological screening routes are inevitable, also with the aim of verifying the categories and subjects that really need the third dose of vaccine, apart from the most vulnerable subjects, in order to promote and guarantee the supply of doses to countries where the vaccination campaign is unable to take off. In order to achieve this, the Movimento 5 Stars has carried out a proposal, then transformed into an amendment to the recovery decree, which provides, in the event of a health emergency, the temporary obligation for holders of a patent on vaccines or medicines considered essential for health to grant the license to other subjects. The purpose of the introduction of this compulsory licence has been and is undoubtedly to ensure a fair spread of vaccines and medicines among all countries, especially those most economically disadvantaged. I therefore conclude, Mr President, by inviting you to bring these requests to the European Council, because if we allow ourselves to be guided by the science and reasonableness of the measures, we will also be able to stem the protests. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u36	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, and No 2 by Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, Errani, Bonino, Nannicini, Garavini and Steger. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u37	I would like to thank all the senators for their contribution to this debate, which will certainly inform me of my speech at the European Council. I now try to sum up the issues raised and hope to respond to all the points that have been touched on. A first point concerns Europe. In reality, the theme of Europe has been raised by many of the speakers, by Senator Renzi, Senator Ruspandini, Senator Bonino, Senator Gallone, Senator Fantetti and also Senator Pirro. There are, in my opinion, three main issues with regard to Europe. The first is how this challenge to European integrity comes from the judgments of the National Constitutional Courts, which claim primacy in the jurisdiction over the European Court of Justice. The position here can only be that we are firm and convinced that we support the Commission in the action it is taking. Let us remember that the first ruling that challenged the primacy of the European Court of Justice came from the German Constitutional Court, which questioned the effectiveness of the monetary policy conducted by the European Central Bank. The European Central Bank won in the European Court of Justice, thus naturally contributing to the formulation of a monetary policy whose instruments will be different forever from then on. However, the German Constitutional Court reaffirmed, albeit not directly, a primacy. This attitude has been even more confirmed and dramatized by what has happened in Poland and in other respects in Hungary. The European Commission is reacting firmly to this type of position, and I believe that we must simply support what the European Commission is doing in accordance with the procedures laid down in these cases. We will see how this ends. Certainly, these are moments of tension, and our hope is that we will fall within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as has been the case in many other cases. This is not the first case of intervention by a Constitutional Court; the example I have mentioned is one of the last, but there have been others, of course not so dramatic; the hope is that everything falls within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but without undermining the European Union in its policy of solidarity, responsibility and universality of the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. It is, therefore, a politically difficult path rather than a legal one. The second point raised by various senators, in part by those I have already mentioned, concerns the unique role of Europe. Indeed, the more we move forward, the more we discover that we cannot overcome these global challenges, which cross the national border. We probably wouldn't have been able to win the pandemic challenge, certainly we wouldn't have been able to win that of building a recovery after the pandemic disaster. It is impossible to overcome the challenge of digital, ecological transition and to this I must add that, given the latest international developments, we will never be able to win the challenge of defence at national level. It is clear that the latest developments have shown how inevitable, necessary the construction of a European Defence, which requires an enormity of means that certainly a single country does not have. To give you an idea, I refer to figures from a press conference by Commissioner Gentiloni, which took place on 19 October: the European Commission's estimate of additional private and public investment needs in the green and digital transition will be around EUR 650 billion per year until 2030; the green transition alone will involve investments of EUR 520 billion per year; the energy and transport sectors will require an investment estimate of EUR 390 billion per year, which is 50% higher than in the past. It is therefore a matter of dimensions that we cannot simply address at national level, so that Europe will necessarily play a unique and irreplaceable role, both in terms of the size of the interventions and in terms of the many circumstances in which solidarity will be necessary, as has been the case in the past. These are the facts that in a sense accompany our ideal convictions, because it is not only out of need that we are in Europe, but out of realism and idealism. [[Applause]] In addition, at some point this convergence of idealism and realism can only lead, in my opinion, to an answer to the institutional question, which, if I am not mistaken, was raised by Senator Bonino and also by others. How this can happen we don't know now. It is a moment, as you said, of great political transition in the major countries of the European Union, so we certainly need a political situation with a horizon ahead that will allow us to restart the process of rebuilding the decision-making mechanisms at European level. The second point addressed by some of you, particularly by Senators Arrigoni, Girotto and Nastri, concerns energy. We're at a very difficult time. First of all, let me briefly explain what the Government has done so far on the energy front. As I said before, in June we allocated EUR 1.2 billion, at the end of September we intervened with an additional EUR 3 billion; these measures are for the benefit of more than 3 million families, the poorest, who benefit from the electricity social bonus. For these, the effects of the future increase in bills are tending to be zeroed. For 6 million very small and small enterprises and for about 29 million domestic users the rates related to the general system charges for the fourth quarter of this year are zeroed. As regards gas, for two and a half million households benefiting from the bonus, the effects of the expected increase in the bill in the last quarter of this year have tended to be zero. For all gas users, households and businesses, VAT was reduced to 5% over the same period and system charges were zeroed. We will therefore follow with great interest and great participation the initiative of the Commission that has indicated the possibility of consorting in joint purchases in order to have greater contractual power, also publishing a list of instruments with the indication of short-term measures to lighten burdens and medium-term proposals with regard to storage, market integration and energy communities. The proposal to consider joint purchases of gas supported by Italy was therefore put forward. I would therefore like to focus on the reduction of fossil fuels. We've done very well so far. In 2019 in Italy 18.2 percent of final energy consumption was produced with renewable sources; more than France, with 17.2 and Germany, with 17.3 sources. This was the effect of a strong increase in the use of renewable sources. So we've gone 18.2 percent since 12.8 ten years ago. We've done well, we still have a lot to do, but it's a difficult game. The considerations of Senators Arrigoni and Girotto, although from different perspectives, pose a very difficult issue. We must first of all ask ourselves whether the increase in the price of gas we are seeing is temporary or structural. There are many reasons to think that part of this increase is temporary. Senator Arrigoni mentioned the non-use of wind in the Baltic Sea, the drought that dried up some hydroelectric sources. There are, however, some that are probably structural; I am referring, for example, to the conversion of Chinese coal-fired power stations to gas-fired power stations. You think that China produces about 50% of the world's steel and much of it is still coal-fired. Gas conversion means that China will provide gas necessarily European because to date it does not have large gas productions at national level. We will continue with the policy of support, especially for the weakest and small enterprises, but we need to find structural solutions, because obviously the green transition will take time and, in the meantime, we are very dependent on gas, like other European countries (I believe that the figure of dependence is more or less the same). It is a dramatic dependence and a very large part of this gas is imported. It is also true that, if we pulled more gas today, this would be sold at international prices, so at a price that is more or less the world price, but net of transport costs and other charges. That's a bit of a score to be made. I believe that at present we will have to continue to take a decisive step towards the green transition, to tackle the burden that rising gas prices impose, above all, on the most fragile and, at the same time, on building structural solutions. It's not easy, but it's the only way to go. Again, a debate of this kind in Europe, which will take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, will be a very important first opportunity to see some light at the end of this tunnel. The issue of migration has also been raised, on which I would like to give you some information (which you may already know). Senator Bonino, Senator Biti and Senator Giammanco touched this point. With regard to Afghanistan, mentioned by Senator Bonino, eight action plans have now been presented by the Commission for priority countries, namely Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Iraq, Libya, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria and Tunisia. The timing and identification of financial resources in the EU budget can be improved. As I said on another occasion, I expect the European Commission and the European External Action Service to ensure that the European Council is kept up to date on the implementation of commitments and financial resources, including on a matter of transparency towards the European Parliament and national parliaments. On return - I repeat what I said - it is also appropriate to follow up the commitment of European progress on return, too often and too little implemented. Such progress requires more Europe; the European Union's action on this issue is incomparably stronger, more effective and more penetrating than a single country's action. Two words about the autumn we're living. This summer we continued to meet the international obligations of rescue at sea and guarantee of international protection for those entitled to it. We have faced landings, recordings and first reception, in spite of the continuing emergency of Covid; the current figures indicate landings in fact double those of the same period last year (to 19 October there were 50,500, compared to 26,000 last year). Around 87,500 people have arrived in the European Union from the Mediterranean by land and sea, of which some 49,000 have arrived in Italy. Finally, on the Central Mediterranean route, from the beginning of the year to October 11, about 1,106 people died. In the face of this data I find myself repeating what I have said since the initial speech of this Government: the approach of the Government can only be balanced and effective, but also human. [[Applause]] Effective must be in two ways: effective in protecting national borders from illegal immigration and immigration trafficking, but also effective in reception. [[Applause]] Here's the thing, in my opinion. I would remind you that in this very Chamber I said that, in order to transform migrants into brothers, we need to be able to welcome them and welcome them well, but with a sense of the importance of what it means to be Italian. [[Applause]] Otherwise we will not be able to accept them and we will make them enemies (and we have made them enemies). With regard to research, an issue raised by Senator Renzi and Senator Pirro, we intend to invest in research and skills, in the strategy just adopted by the Interministerial Committee for the Digital Transition and we plan to increase the number of PhDs from 9,000 to 20,000, the chairs, research centres, technology transfer centres and individual basic research. Specifically, regarding Quantum research, which has been mentioned earlier, we have two projects in the PNRR: basic research and applied research. Regarding what Senator Toninelli said, on the punctuality of the Government in informing Parliament, I recall Article 2 of Decree-Law No 77 of 31 May 2021, whereby the Government sends the Chambers a six-monthly report on the state of implementation of the PNRR, with a focus on effectiveness for employment, young people, gender equality and the participation of women in the labour market. The Government will certainly prepare the report in due time and Ministers are available for any information. Among other things, on 23 September, information was given in the Council of Ministers on the state of implementation and a steering booth pays special attention to territorial gaps. I think I'm done and thank you again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u38	I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u39	Mr President, on the motion for a resolution No 1, signed by Senator Ciriani and other senators, I am against it. On the motion for a resolution No 2, signed by Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, Errani, Bonino, Nannicini, Garavini and Steger, I welcome this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u40	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u43	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr Draghi, it was difficult to imagine that after the health crisis, the world would be on the verge of an energy crisis. We are in a strait from which you have to get out without looking for shortcuts or leaning on that propaganda, which makes environmental transition policies the cause of the increase in costs. First of all, as you have just explained, there is a need to continue state intervention in order to prevent an increase in the costs of bills, for families and for businesses, which would affect the prospects for economic growth. We also need greater European coordination, not only on objectives, but also on legislation, for the development of renewables. As a Group for Autonomies we represent territories such as Val d'Aosta and the autonomous province of Bolzano, which are among the main producers of hydropower, a clean and renewable energy by definition. But let us not hide that we are concerned, for example, about the renewal of concessions. In particular, there is a lack of European legislation that would bring the various disciplines into line, particularly with regard to the duration of concessions. This creates disparities and places us at the attention of large foreign groups, whose interest does not always coincide with the national one. It is just one example, but it makes the idea of the type of work that should be done with a view to strengthening and diversifying energy from clean sources. This points to the importance of the COP26 meeting you mentioned in Glasgow in a few weeks' time. Another issue which we feel is of particular importance as self-employed people is the role of local authorities in managing European aid. Local authorities are the only ones with regard to major infrastructure projects who have the sensitivity and knowledge of the territories in order to develop initiatives that directly affect the lives of citizens in relation to the major missions of the Plan. This is why we need not only to leverage large-scale entities, but also to put smaller municipalities in a position to develop and implement urban regeneration projects, exactly as envisaged today in the PNRR governance guidelines. I want to say that on all fronts we must combine the global and local dimension because this has always proved the way to make visions concrete, but also to ensure that the detail was not entirely isolated, but an element of a strategic design. That is why it is also important for us, who have always recognised ourselves in European values, for the Union to keep the bar straight from those situations - I also think of Poland, which has already been mentioned a great deal in this debate - which try to undermine the founding principles of the European Union. It is a problem if someone thinks they can put back the hands of history, which, instead, goes in the exact opposite direction of increasing integration, an essential element to use resources to get out of this catastrophic pandemic crisis. The next test is the rewriting of common rules; it would be unthinkable to return to the constraints of the Stability Pact. The Covid is not a parenthesis, but a change of paradigm and a change of epoch, a cesura between the before and after. The 3% of GDP deficit parameter, but also 60% of the debt-to-GDP ratio, are conventions that are no longer up-to-date, both for the debt capacity of governments, which today is higher than in Maastricht, and because, as you have repeatedly explained, there is bad debt and good debt. There is certainly talk of good debt when it comes to investments in ecological, digital and health transition. Mr President, we very much appreciate the attention you are paying to the digital transition, which is another important cornerstone for the future development of our country, especially in particular areas such as the Alps. We have entered a new phase of the gradual process of exiting the pandemic: we are from the health point of view and its Government is doing well - as a doctor I am firmly convinced - to keep the point to reach as soon as possible the threshold of 90% of the vaccinated. The 40,000 cases in the United Kingdom are a warning to everyone because we will never tire of repeating that the more the infected virus, the greater the chances of new threatening variants. His call for more investment in science and research is a key point for the growth of our society. I would also add a great deal of investment in scientific information, and we need it so much at this time. We are in this new phase also from the economic point of view and we who represent the mountain territories can tell you how great the waiting for the winter season after the tourism has been mortified for two consecutive years. I come to migration policies. I am native to a territory, the Valle d'Aosta, from which until eighty years ago many families had to emigrate in order to get out of poverty. If there had been walls between nations - those walls that are being called back today - how many of our Italian families would have been in misery! I therefore believe that raising barriers is profoundly wrong; but if they are invoked, it means that something is still not working in European migration policies. Europe faces the problem collectively, and it is enough - unfortunately, we have been telling us for years - to leave individual states alone to deal with this epochal phenomenon of the great migrations of peoples. In conclusion, at tomorrow's Council, Mr President, it represents Italy's desire and commitment to a Europe that serves these objectives: a Europe that takes responsibility for the energy crisis, that does not lend its side to those who want to divide it and that is protagonist in the years to come. I therefore vote in favour of the majority resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u46	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr Draghi, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is again smiling: our economic figures are even better than those of Germany, thanks to the commitment of Italians and Italians, workers and entrepreneurs. There is optimism in the air, also the result of the perspective we have created together in Europe, through the Next generation EU. It is Europe's desire to leave together: something that was not at all taken for granted, indeed, Europe itself could have imploded, the victim of a selfish retreat of individual countries on itself. On the other hand, the European Union has had the capacity to react and to put in place measures of great courage: SURE, the release of the Stability Pact, recovery funds. In the midst of the difficulties, Europe has shown its full value by being able to impose solidarity policies and affirm a principle: only united can we get the best out of the crises. It is now a matter of starting from here, seeing if and how the measures taken during the pandemic can be transformed into structural interventions, capable of making Europe even stronger. Hence the importance of the forthcoming summits of the European Council, which will mark the future of Europe in the decades to come, starting with the Council of tomorrow, which places at the centre of the debate a progressive return to normality, first and foremost from a health point of view. Thanks to the successes of the vaccination campaign and the introduction of the green pass, it is a source of pride that Italy is doing school internationally, with the rules introduced in the field of vaccination certificate, for example. In the face of the controversy, in fact, the obligation of green passes in the workplace is working and determines a new boom of vaccinations, to the point that several foreign countries look with appreciation - and perhaps also with envy - to the rules adopted by us. It is good that there is also the issue of rising electricity prices on tomorrow's agenda. The sudden growth in energy tariffs is likely to undermine both economic recovery and the green transition; in fact, there is a risk that there will be protests calling into question the measures for decarbonisation, accused of being the cause of the increase in bills. That is why Europe needs to address this issue and to make it clear that it is not the energy transition that determines the increase in costs, it is not the energy transition that determines the loss of jobs; if anything, the high prices should convince us even more of the goodness of energy conversion. If we had realized the green deal years ago, we would be less dependent on fossil sources and natural gas, and the obvious climatic benefits would be added to the economic savings. By intervening late, however, the bill bill bill runs the risk of triggering a downward spiral of environmental ambitions even at the level of world economies, including Europe, with irreparable damage. We believe that in order to contain prices it is necessary for Europe to provide itself in advance with a common European storage system, so as not to have to depend on possible blackmail from the energy supplier countries. That is why it is important for Europe to set out guidelines to enable States to react promptly. It is necessary that the weight of the energy transition does not weigh heavily on the most fragile. You're right, President Draghi. You said this during your speech: it is a complex game, which cannot be postponed and must be fair, so that it can be shared and persecuted by all the actors, even the most recalcitrant. At the same time, we need a constructive international confrontation that avoids any backward steps in the fight against climate change and that allows us to reach concrete commitments for COP26 scheduled in Glasgow in November; an important event, where it is desirable that we arrive with a common negotiating position on emission reduction targets, on which countries such as Poland, Bulgaria and Romania, still heavily dependent on coal, can converge. Digitisation is another important aspect on the agenda. The preservation of economic, social, commercial, but also cultural restarts also means the success of the digital transition. To this end, it is strategic to launch a data security policy through the creation of a European cloud, that is, a sort of electronic archive where we can store and protect all our data. At the same time, company innovation must be promoted, working to bring back various strategic productions in Italy and Europe, such as semiconductor production. In short, Madam President, despite all the difficulties and despite everything, the pandemic has re-established Europe. Europe has demonstrated its ability to react and has taken a new path. It is now up to us, the Council after the Council, to go through it and direct it. And with you, Mr President-in-Office, we are in the best hands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u49	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, Mr Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to your communications, Mr Draghi, in relation to tomorrow's European Council and we have tabled a resolution which we hope will be adopted, because in your premises and in the commitments you request from the Government it refers to all six items on the agenda that you will discuss tomorrow, but it also contains our resolution, some suggestions regarding what you, Mr President, did not say in the communications. What is striking is that his communication, even suggestive in some passages, which I will then say, is constructed journalistically, i.e. with enunciations of titles, but always lacks the how and therefore. The method of stating titles is perhaps good for a Council of Ministers, who must always say yes, but it is not good for a Parliament. For example, you have devoted a few minutes to the issue of vaccines, the first five of your speech. He rightly stressed the success of the Italian vaccination campaign, which he called more rapid than the European average. Brothers of Italy has always supported the success of the vaccination campaign and it is no coincidence that these successes began after the replacement of former Commissioner Arcuri and his bad management. Let me just say one thing: it will be useful in these days to review the dossier that we gave you, as a delegation of the Brothers of Italy, during a meeting. This dossier punctually reconstructed what, already at the time, seemed to us evident opacity, not to say more, in the police management of the epidemiological emergency. Let's go back to today. We agree on the need, I quote, to avoid what you have elegantly called health protectionism, but it has had the meaning, much more pressing and less elegant, of limitations of personal freedom, of very high human, existential and economic costs. We were wondering, Mr Draghi, if you, tomorrow, at the European Council, with regard to the Covid-19, will bring as a model what your Government, the only nation in Europe together with Greece, has done with the extension of the obligation of green passes to the workplace, with the dramatic consequences that are before everyone's eyes and that will not escape even in Brussels. And if it is acceptable - and it is - the European commitment, called Covax, to low-income countries, do not forget, President, that Covax also serves here, with the same logic, because there are many and increasing pockets of social and economic marginalization, even those people who freely manifest themselves choosing not to vaccinate. In fact, in a Republic based on work (Article 1), creating the precedent, as is being done, that to work a government pass is unacceptable and also contradicts the principle of not being discriminated against in the workplace, as the Constitution wants and as requested by the European Union, which you will meet in this Council tomorrow. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. We cannot dismiss anyone who has doubts about the green pass and the safety of vaccines as a criminal; let's leave the agitators alone, but in the vast majority they are people who manifest peacefully and should do so freely. We do not want this to distract our attention from what has not been done, for example, to increase public transport or in schools to avoid chicken classes. There are few minutes, Mr President, devoted to a gigantic issue such as immigration, to which you have supported - and it is true - that European countries have taken note of the risks associated with irregular migration flows and added that we must defend borders, including maritime ones. Right, President: Too bad I didn't hear anything about how to do it, given the increase, now out of control, of migrants' landings, in the absence of a (I won't call it "blocking" in order not to irritate you) naval garrison, that would prevent departures upstream. Nor did he say anything about how to stop the arrivals in Europe from the Balkan route and failed to say, as my colleague Mr Ruspandini pointed out, that there was an appeal letter from twelve European countries, who asked for funding for the defence of external borders, which Italy should subscribe to. It is good to hear them say that the European Union must do more; President, you weren't there, but we've been saying that for years. We would be happy if the European Union, instead of doing more, would perhaps start to do something, since it has never done anything, leaving Italy alone - alone! [[Applause]] - to handle the migratory emergency. The Malta agreements - it is now known - were false, because there was no real responsibility on the part of the countries of the European Union. You can say that tomorrow. I am just taking a brief step on the evocative part to which you, Mr President, have devoted a great deal of space, which is also included in our resolution, which is part of the subject matter, namely the digital and ecological transition. We share - and we have no difficulty in admitting this, because we are an intellectually honest opposition - the commitments to recover the gap and the disparities that exist with respect to the European average. The objectives on artificial intelligence and good intentions on the clear regulatory framework for cybersecurity are also good. We also appreciate the passage on the centrality of state intervention in terms of investment and public-private collaboration. This too - Mr President, you were not there - we have been saying this for years. However, it would have comforted us (I would like to give a specific example) that the need for some of these investments that you have spoken of would lead to the development of megafabrics in Italy was made explicit. I am thinking, for example, of that for the production of electric batteries in Termoli or Turin, everywhere, elsewhere, however in Italy, for the Italian industrial development. We would have liked to have heard you say that, Mr President. [[Applause]] And always to emphasize what your words do not say, as my colleague Nastri also pointed out, you explained to us how to deal with the dear bills, but you did not explain exactly how to face the dear energy, considering that the price of natural gas will remain above 200 euros/megawattora until April. Return to digital: we in our resolution call for strengthening the digital leadership of the European Union and ensuring strategic autonomy with autonomous technological choices. We also call for all technologies to be used - and we are very keen on this - in accordance with a principle of technological neutrality, i.e. the possibility of a genuine mix between different energy sources with the development of a specific European industrial supply chain - please listen to me, President - to reduce technological dependence. This is in our resolution: Europe's autonomy in the production of renewable energy sources while ensuring its competitiveness in the global economy. Mr President, we would like our resolution to be adopted, because the dangerous sovereignists of Brothers of Italy have provided many ideas and many reflections and suggestions to stay in Europe and stand tall. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u52	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the majority resolution, but also to express full confidence in you, Mr President, when you come to the European Council. He knows he has the majority of Italians behind him for what he is doing in our country, for the seriousness and consistency of the vaccination campaign and for the way in which he is bringing the country back to normal. I think this is the best way to present itself in Europe. The credibility of Italy also serves to fight the main battles. I will focus on what is working and what is not working, so as to make some constructive criticism that can be useful in the work that the Government has to do in Europe. Compared to what worked, we did well to give a signal on the Covax project, from 15 to 45 million doses. It is not only a matter of security, it is not only necessary to reassure the countries that alone do not succeed, but it is a symbolic theme. If Europe wants to be a beacon of democracy, if it wants to be a consequence of its ability to express liberal values and to protect fundamental rights, it must demonstrate it not only within its borders, but also outside, especially in countries which are lagging behind in development and which face difficulties. With this in mind, the issue of investment in research and science must be fully addressed in the European Union's health project. We will also talk about this at the Conference on the Future of Europe to accompany the effort you are making as a Government. The other major issue is European industrial policy. I would like to make a quick comment on this, because often - in the Council of Ministers you have also discussed this - we focus on a few tens of millions of euros to be moved on to 102 or on the income of citizenship and we lose sight of the main game, which is to invest on an idea of sustainable development, not only of our country, but of Europe. [[Applause]] The numbers you gave, 40% in 1990 and 9% in 2021, would be enough to close the debate. It is clear that we must use several billions and that we need the intervention of the State, understood in the broad sense, understood as European sovereignty. It is Europe that needs to invest in an idea of development, a European industrial policy, and it must be able to accompany the phase of ecological and digital transition, while also protecting employment and avoiding that derby which we often see, even within our party, between the party of work and the party of the enterprise. You win if you invest in an idea of sustainable development that brings together entrepreneurs and workers. I come from a land in the North, where often entrepreneurs and workers, even without the intermediary of the union, find themselves the way to development. From this point of view we will have to take a cue. I think the work being done to resume and accompany a multilateral idea is fine: work on the G20 and COP26. However, I come to what is not working, Mr President. You have taken it up in your reply, but it was much lighter in your speech: Poland and Hungary are challenges at the heart of Europe; I say this because it began first as a challenge on freedom of opinion, press and sexual orientation and from the point of view of the compression of women' s rights, but today it is becoming an attack on the idea of Europe, the acquis communautaire. When, at the end of the 1990s, we went to Eastern European countries, which were rid of the Soviet yoke, we said to them: come within this area of peace, well-being and prosperity; we will help you to fill development delays and you will have to respect not only the rules of a common market, but a shared idea of fundamental rights and freedoms. They're questioning it. We have to fight back. [[Applause]] You can do so, Mr Draghi, with your credibility and if you have the parliamentary groups, the main parties and Italian civil society at your side. We cannot afford to become a European fortress that closes its borders with the logic of small patriots, just when we risk no longer being hegemony like Europe, attention moves on the Indo-Pacific and the USA and China build new networks of international relations. If Europe is not strong and does not speak with one voice, we risk not relying on international scenarios, even if we can count on its international credibility. I am beginning to conclude my speech on the subject not of walls, but of bridges: migration. I think that Italy has done well to do what it has done: rescue at sea; the symbolic demonstration that we put on the ground, the principle of solidarity and, together, the equitable distribution of responsibilities, which is already written in the Treaties and today we must find the courage to take one step further. You said that in your speech. So we need not only the contrast and the prevention of irregular flows; we disassemble this taboo and we begin to reason for regular immigration, not only for humanitarian corridors, as he said, for those who run away from wars and political persecutions, but also linking it to a reasoning of demography, welfare and ageing of the population. We lose population and, in 2030, we risk having 4 million fewer people. Immigration is no longer even used to bridge the balance between births and deaths: in recent years, we have lost population. If we do not also reason in terms of quotas from mature country, of what our productive sector needs and of how the curve of demography must be helped, we risk losing a fundamental game. Finally, I would like to focus on the implementation of the plans. It is right to be strict: we have put 6 billion on the Balkan route and it is unacceptable that only 500 million should be put on the trust fund for Africa. [[Applause]] If we don't invest in that continent, we risk losing the game. I was impressed by the conversation we had a few months ago with the Ethiopian President, who asked us for help: 70% of the Ethiopian population is under the age of 25. Where do we want to go, if we don't reason for an investment there, along with the United States and China? That is why Europe must also consider the definition and shared analysis of priorities. It is right to insist on the southern route, alongside the attention that must be paid to the Balkans. On these issues of immigration we will discuss - because, as I said before, its credibility and the work of the Government are not enough - also within the Conference on the future of Europe: let us not let it go like this, because in Germany there will be a new leadership, which will need to be established, and in France they will think of the elections. There are many expectations about Italy and we can also use that opportunity to pass important messages. Today we do not win alone, but together, as a united Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u55	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we will vote in favour of the proposed majority resolution, as Senators of Liberi and Equal-Ecosolidali. In particular, on this motion for a resolution we have put in the majority some issues which we consider to be priorities for the European Council which will take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. First of all, I would like to take up the theme of the Conference on the Future of Europe raised by my colleague, Mr Alfieri. All the more so, Mr President, I think it is absolutely necessary, from this point of view, for Europe and, even more so, the founding countries to have absolutely clear words about the pronouncements of Poland and Hungary. On this I want to be equally clear. When enlargement to the East was decided, Europe made an investment, trying to build beyond its historical borders a force based on certain values and on what we all shared, namely the spirit of Europe, that of the Ventotene Manifesto. Since their entry into Europe, these countries have benefited greatly, also from the economic point of view, like many investments. That enlargement was based not only on the general sharing of the Treaties, but also on common ideals and values that are primarily those of democracy, freedom and solidarity. The acts that have followed in recent times have called into question, often and continuously, freedom of the press and of thought, respect for people and another cornerstone of Europe, namely the independence of the judiciary. We have now come to the point that we want to re-establish a sort of sovereignty and supremacy of the internal legislation of the Member States over that of Europe. It is clear that this means calling Europe into question and we share the words, even harsh ones, spoken by the President of the European Commission. We believe that this question (on which you, Mr Draghi, have returned in your reply) must be dealt with in the chest. By the way, you know that precisely for having made that investment, since the entry of those countries our country has often had problems (I think, for example, the question of relocations). It is truly paradoxical that the very idea of Europe is being called into question today. That's the point. We also think about resources. We have all made a great effort with the PNRR and we will never tire of saying what has been the great investment that Europe has made with the Next Generation EU. These countries have had the resources, but they are all available for a joint project in Europe. Mr President, as a country we can certainly present ourselves with the cards in order to fight the pandemic. In Europe, perhaps more efforts must be made on this issue. We are absolutely convinced of support for the European authority and I come here to vaccine diplomacy. Covax Facility isn't enough. I believe that, as clearly stated in our motion for a resolution, we must take a great step forward. As written in various resolutions (and I know that you, Mr Draghi, have also personally spent it), the question is that we will never be able to overcome the gap with the poorest countries in terms of the percentage of vaccinees. This is a huge problem of fairness, justice and health security and we can only deal with it through the suspension of the TRIPs patent agreement. Besides, we don't have much more time. I say this because we have done a great deal of work on vaccinations and Europe is working on this, but we must understand once and for all that the problem of securing the citizens of poor countries is enormous and we must face it on our chest. Coming to the other issue, Europe after the pandemic - and not just for that - has made the choice of the green deal, has given itself very clear and precise targets to 2030 and 2050 for climate neutrality and, in the light of these and also of the assumption of responsibility and investment with the Next generation EU, must be able to deal with what is now called the energy crisis. We therefore reject - and we also do so in the resolution - any reconstruction which leads to the rise in energy prices from the ecological transition and investment in renewable energy. It's exactly the opposite. The increase is due to the fact that very strong decisions in this respect have not been taken in time, such as the fight against climate change and investment in energy transition and renewable sources. The ability of our country and Europe to free ourselves very quickly from dependence on fossils is the key on which we must work. It is clear that there are complex issues (in his reply he rightly spoke of some very complicated structural issues as well), but first of all we must reject that reconstruction, because the opposite is true. If today we had reached 30-40 percent of electricity production from renewable sources, we would have clearly - it is mathematical - had a lesser dependence on the foreign market and fossils. That's why we have to run on that front. We are optimistic: Italy is playing its role well with regard to Cop26 and she, during the days in Milan, met Greta and the young people, who just ask us not to continue writing commitments and so many beautiful words, but to act. I think, Mr President, that in order to act in the fight against global warming we need to be clear about the emergency we are in, because the energy crisis is also an issue that we are touching with our hands, but we may have much more serious problems with the impact on people's lives. We should understand that the energy crisis must be tackled just as we have dealt with the issue of the Covid pandemic crisis, because it is an emergency that we have to deal with in time and quickly. It is clear that in order to do this, it is necessary to assume public responsibilities and investments that can drive private ones and help them, because this is the horizon, it is an absolute priority. We also need to know, when we talk about fair and fair ecological transition in the texts, that we need to anticipate the instruments that accompany it, but also in this case if we run, take decisions and put investment in place, we also need to change the narrative. Someone said that it will be tears and blood, but what we have to say is that our country, together with Europe - because this is the European effort - can drag, create new jobs and support even those who need to be supported, because it is in the collective interest. Otherwise - I am not talking - everyone already says that we will not be able to contain the increase in temperature of one and a half degrees and they are settling on two degrees; if we continue to act little, we risk really and seriously. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u58	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming European Council represents an important moment, an indispensable opportunity to take stock of the effectiveness of the measures taken both at Community level and by individual Member States. This European Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is a step in which Italy has the opportunity to play a leading role as a pillar of stability in Europe. In this regard, epidemiological data, the development of contagions, hospitalizations and intensive care and the re-starting of sectors that have had the greatest impact in the most acute phase of the pandemic, but also the resumption of trade and the free movement of citizens in Europe show unequivocally that the road followed so far has paid. We have passed - and we have warned him strongly - from chasing the effects of the pandemic to managing it, anticipating it, and thus avoiding it, the most drastic repercussions. There is no doubt that with the change of government, the arrival of General Son and the rewriting of the vaccination plan a campaign of immunization has begun that has had a great success. [[Applause]] If this unexpected, unwanted experience has been from lesson, with vaccines, with the green pass or health certificate, with the dedication of health workers and the incessant commitment of the Forces of Order, as well as with the solidarity and responsibility that citizens have demonstrated in front of devastating events such as this pandemic, we have certainly understood that it is the sense of belonging and the sense of community that makes the difference. If we see the light at the end of the tunnel, we owe it to these courageous and sometimes unpopular choices that are inevitably saving our lives. [[Applause]] He really regrets that no vax propaganda and the one against the green pass have insinuated in this turning point, which have taken on violent tones since their rise. The threats to those responsible for promoting the vaccine, violence and devastation in our cities perpetrated under the cry of "freedom" are not only an outrage to the majority of Italians, but are a wound to democracy. This is a serious mistake, because at a time when politics (as the whole country has done) is united against a common enemy, you cannot take advantage of the opportunity of dissent from a violent minority to make propaganda [[Applause]] These attitudes do not do the good of the country, because they betrayed the spirit of real unity that led to the birth of this Government and that should have been an example for all citizens. I am proud of my party, Forza Italia, which wisely demanded that politics find adequate answers to the critical issues raised by scientists and technicians. [[Applause]] I am proud that our attitude and our recipes have made Italy start out of the emergency. Let us be clear: this does not mean that the pandemic is over, far from it; the work is not over, we must get Italy out of the crisis. Italy was the first country to be approved the PNRR, the largest investment document that has been seen since the post-war period, with which we can change the face of our country and bring it to the future. We were the first to get EUR 24.9 billion as an advance from the European Union as a sign of confidence in the work we are doing and the first to carry out reforms such as justice and public administration; now, with the next budget law, we are moving from demand policy, made of subsidies, fundamental in the pandemic, to supply policy, to increase growth and reduce taxes for families and businesses, through the cutting of the tax wedge. [[Applause]] Let me say, not as an economist, but as a mother of a family, that she knows how to count, that she needs at least 10 billion, so more than a third of the whole maneuver. [[Applause]] and we can also do so thanks to the loosening of the links of the European Stability Pact, which is a right choice, all the more so because a pandemic is in place, with all its health, economic and social consequences, which calls for a synergistic and genuinely common policy between the various Member States of the Union, including on immigration. The Mediterranean basins Europe's borders, even before Italy's borders; one cannot ignore the obvious need for the management of the containment of migratory flows to become a political priority throughout Europe and to stop being an exclusive problem for Italy. Europe is called upon to take on an issue that is affecting our state, geographically exposed in a particular way, but this phenomenon affects the whole of the Union. This has to do both with the relocation of migrants and with the policies to be implemented internationally, also with the countries from which the migratory flows originate. On the basis of what Italy has done with the Berlusconi governments, it is necessary to establish a strong and effective European interlocation with the States of origin or transit in order to block the journeys of hope, all too often encouraged or favored, which, when it's okay, put on hold our reception system, and, when it goes wrong, increase the already disproportionate dimensions of the underwater cemetery that occupies the Mediterranean seabed. [[Applause]] It is time for Europe to implement a truly common foreign and defence policy. This summer, the Afghan crisis has also been added to the Covid emergency, resulting in a new emergency, also migratory, that is looming over our entire continent. In the same way, we must respond to the necessary creation of the digital infrastructures necessary to truly project ourselves towards the future. The digital gap divides not only our country, but the whole world into two. In Italy we have seen it with all evidence with the closure of schools, with the smart working, with the connection that did not reach everywhere, the digital divides strongly marked among the areas of the Country, the distance teaching that has created students of series a and of series b. During the lockdown and, more generally, during the limitations that also led to the stop of the work in presence, not for everyone and not everywhere it was possible to work from home. The development and growth of society now depend on the functionality and accessibility of the network. If we provide citizens with broadband, we will link our children to education, our elders to telemedicine and the most modern forms of care that can be done remotely, as well as families and people among them, those who offer work with those who seek it, and we will project young people to the future. [[Applause]] Italy's commitment to the next European Council must be based on these points, which are an indispensable condition for us to rise up and raise the whole of Europe from the rubble left by Covid. Italy can be the protagonist of this change: we have all the cards in place for this to happen, the possibility of helping to draw a Europe that is truly in solidarity with one another and the opportunity to emerge from this crisis stronger than before. [[Applause]] There is no doubt that all this is possible thanks to your authority, Mr President, to a strong and stable Government, to a large majority supporting it and, let me say from these benches, also thanks to a Parliament that has been in tune with the country. This is the mandate which we will vote for with the majority resolution and which we entrust to you, Mr Draghi, in view of the forthcoming European Council, in the knowledge that it is essential to pave the way for a new way of understanding and strengthening Community policies, after the extenuating evidence that Covid has submitted to us, and we must do so - let me do so - at all costs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u59	Senator Papatheu, please, you can't photograph in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u62	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr Draghi, you will be making a little bit of a habit of our parliamentary rituals, of which often and gladly you are also struggling to find the meaning, since the European Union, as Senator Bonino said before - whose words I treasure - often and willingly also opaque in the management of relations of democracy. However, we do not want to get used to these parliamentary rituals, so today we will be voting on a motion for a resolution which has received the support of the Government and which has been written by the majority forces. You must know, Mr Draghi, that the resolution has obviously been written with several hands and is also the result of a balance for which we can certainly thank the work done by Mr Amendola. Undoubtedly, finding a summary of the issues on the agenda of the European Council has not been complicated. Someone in the drafting of the motion for a resolution has also said that it is a very transitory Council, with little content. I do not entirely agree with this statement, but we certainly do not see the emphasis on the agenda of the European Council, or we see little of it, on issues which are constantly postponed or even do not belong to the agenda of the European Government. The fact that you have not seen the whole Afghan issue on the agenda in a serious way (you mentioned this, but reflecting on the G20) gives the sense of a European Union and a Commission that are struggling to interpret their role and role in foreign policy. If you don't start there, it's hard to find a reason for everything else. You have made a statement that can be signed (it can hardly be): you are not only in Europe for interests, but also for ideals. You say that when you go to the European Council in the next few days, because we have often had the impression in the past years, and we still have it today, that for many people the interest is disguised as an idea, but that the real interest is one's own interest. Returning to the issues, attention and sensitivity were given to her by all the Groups. We have mentioned - and we have done so in a complete way - the serious difficulties relating to the energy crisis. Let us not lose sight of this aspect, which some analyses highlight. I quote one, which I found very interesting: be careful, because the Chinese braking has to worry us. China is not only a competitor to keep away, as it is invasive to our economies, but it is the locomotive that has driven the world economy and that now risks putting it in crisis, also because of its inability to manage its big boom. Added to China is the possibility of a creeping and permanent global energy crisis, which destroys demand in industry and takes away purchasing power from families. Attention: if the answer on the other hand were to be premature fiscal and monetary restrictions, in the presence of a level of debt that has no precedent, these risks to stifle the nascent recovery of the families. From here, of course, the reflection goes on the action that the government must do, in keeping an eye on the fact that taxation, as far as real estate and families are concerned, is still too high. We need to be aware, at European level, that it is not enough to transfer funding quotas from the peripheral to the central level, but that we also need a common fiscal policy; here we continue to lag behind, with competitions, even within it, which certainly say a lot about a European Union that continues to be very mentioned, but not completed. You see, Mr Draghi, there are gaps and, when so, they must be addressed. Being shy about it reminds me of Brexit's passage. You think that, when we were faced with it, we sought in Parliament a comparison of the reasons that led the United Kingdom to have that condition of discomfort towards the European Union. Even today - of course the government has changed in the meantime - we are waiting for a moment of discussion on the reasons that led to Brexit. If, in the face of the European Union's inability to deal with the problems, we do not ask ourselves how to overcome these situations, we are hiding the problem under the carpet, thinking that it will solve itself. On the contrary, we must face it, calling it by its own name; if there are responsibilities to be shared, Let's take 'em. However, we must all be responsible for the shortcomings in the management of foreign policy and the policy of combating illegal immigration - we must remember this once again - in the management of the border of the Mediterranean, which remains a serious problem and not addressed. Mr. Draghi, history repeats itself. Let us not forget that finding peace at the borders by paying it is not a sign of strength, but of weakness on the part of a country. Then when blackmail increases, there is no longer the ability to support that payment and you remain prisoners of the same mechanism that started. We must bring stability to those countries where today, instead, the problem of migration is generated and where the same is addressed, with political origin, as we know. Allow me to be a moment I do not say critical (otherwise tomorrow the newspapers will say that the League takes critical positions towards the Government, we would miss it). However, Mr Draghi, who would not subscribe to the words you have used with regard to migrants? I quote his own words: the approach must be balanced, effective and human. Who doesn't? Of course it must be balanced: let us go straight away and make the partnership agreements with the countries of origin, as I said before. Of course it must be effective: let us make sure that the borders are protected, as he correctly said, and that the reception is aimed at those who are refugees of war, not those who come to Italy simply because they told him that here he will find all the solutions to his problems, because today we are not able to give these answers even to the Italians. [[Applause]] We cannot be so superficial as to think that it is enough to put money in a reception system to create integration, because we know that this is not the case. There's integration, if there's work. If work is lacking, there is no integration and social assistance and tension are created, which we do not want. Clearly, the same must be true of Italian citizens. Yesterday there was a debate here in this House. In a few days' time there will be the G20 in Italy, we will conclude our Presidency and we need to be sure that everyone in the Government is responsible, as you are demonstrating at European level. So the management of internal security must also be focused, otherwise we risk making bad figures at European level and at a general level. Mr Draghi, I am not going to say anything else, partly because they would only be repetitive in relation to the issues that have already been addressed. We are always convinced that our action in Europe must be primarily of pride, certainly active, not passive and not remissive. This is the mandate that we once again give you, through the parliamentary resolution, and for which the League strongly supports its Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u65	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers and Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate's 5 Star Movimento Group will vote in favour of the motion for a majority resolution and welcome the words of President Draghi on the ecological transition. It has taken time, but it is now clear to everyone that ecological transition is not a brake on economic growth and private initiative. Now we all know that there are jobs and businesses behind the ecological transition. [[Applause]] This is also a small goal that we have achieved in recent months: to try to make people understand that behind the ecological transition there are faster and more modern companies, soils to be reclaimed, energy to be transformed, houses that must be implemented energyfully and really a new model of economy, that can bring a future of prosperity to our young people. So, Mr President-in-Office, your words are very welcome. But let us go back to Brussels: let us tell you straight away that the most frequent word you will hear on the European tables will be 'grow up', which is going very well these days, on television and in the newspapers; it is the most used at this time and I have heard you use it very much even this morning in the brilliant speeches that have preceded me. So we all grow and GDP growth is expected to be 6%. It would be nice, however, if the President of the Italian Council went to Europe to say that all growth is possible, but only on condition that it is sustainable. [[Applause]] This is the first concept we need to bring to Europe. Mr President, you will go to Brussels and you will be faced with one of the hottest issues of the moment, which is energy. Again, let us be clear with our fellow Europeans. There will never be real, real and substantial growth if it does not rely on sustainable energy. This is very important. Mr President, we must free Europe and the Italians first of all from the slavery of the gas market. This passage is fundamental. We can no longer be hostages to the fossil energy market, because if only we had started our ecological transition ten years ago, we would not have suffered the increase in the price of bills and energy. [[Applause]] Colleagues and colleagues, be careful to say that it is not the Movimento 5 Star Group, but Frans Timmermans, who says that, if we had accessed renewable sources before, today we would not have suffered that increase in our bills that I call cloudy. We were pleased to hear you say that the increase in the cost of energy is a problem linked to the European Union's energy dependence on non-European suppliers. We must deal with what is before us, namely that 60% of Europe's energy needs are met by imports of oil and natural gas outside Europe's borders. It is a quota that even rises to 75% for our country. So, let's go to Brussels with the problem of the expensive bills, on which the government has had to hand with public interventions to mitigate costs, but we fight only in one way: achieving energy autonomy. [[Applause]] We have to run on the environment. The boys are telling us: enough with the chatter and the words; you have to go from the chatter and the words to the deeds. Today's youth is telling us this and we must listen to that warning. It's very important. The road is just one: investing in the search for new renewable sources, promoting the decentralization of renewable energy production and stimulating collective self-consumption, which is represented by our energy communities. We create energy communities. [[Applause]] The measure of the 5 Star Movement is an invitation; let us also take advantage of this stage that Parliament gives us to address citizens: unite together; create energy communities; be you energy producers to be able to sell it. Energy doesn't lose money, but it makes money. You don't need the mayor or the city to do that. There are whole countries that have become independent from an energy point of view and people do not know that. People don't know that there are communities that no longer pay a euro of energy, because they do it themselves. We must promote: this is the road that can really lead us to an energy democracy. There's a second arm that needs to help us. I'm referring to the 110 percent superbonus. [[Applause]] We appreciated the speeches in general discussion and I remember, in particular, that of the colleague of Forza Italia. I read in the newspaper today that the superbonus is extended to 2023, but villas and villas are excluded. Mr President, our thoughts do not go to the villas and villas, but to the houses of our farmers, to the houses of our factors, our rural and internal areas and the shepherds of my island, in short, to the whole segment of weak sections which, even from a productive point of view, must be taken into account. [[Applause]] Let us be careful not to cut this measure in such a way that it does not go to the sole detriment of the turning machines, the electricians, the plumbers, the small builders, the construction sector that was only now seeing the light, after fifteen years of crisis. [[Applause]] Let's talk about it, let's think about it. We appreciated that slowly the superbonus has almost stopped being a measure of the Movimento 5 Stars, because it has become a bit 'the emblem of the Italian ransom and economic recovery. [[Applause]] We are happy, because the issues are not ours; they are ways of development that we offer to the citizens. You must provide citizens with forms of development that can naturally lead to an ecological transition that effectively respects both the planet and people. From this point of view, let us reason here in Parliament, let us see how we can improve the superbonus 110%, without frustrating the expectations and rights of all those categories I have mentioned. I move on to digitalization, which, as you know, is the second topic we care about most: the digital transition comes immediately after the ecological transition. There is no digital without chips, and you said so, Mr President, thank you, and look at the fact that we are not just talking about ensuring Europe's competitiveness in the field of digital innovation. No, Europe's technological sovereignty is at stake here, so, I recommend, Italy has long been the leader of a new economic and social course. We are a point of reference for Europe as a whole and we want to see in you the point of reference so that you can actually bring this country slowly, finally, towards a future of prosperity and employment for our young people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u66	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Stefano, Lorefice, Candiani, Giammanco, Errani, Bonino, Nannicini, Garavini and Steger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concluded the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I suspend the sitting until 2.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.59 p.m. and resumed at 2.35 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u67	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00422, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other Senators, 1-00423, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 1-00424, tabled by Senator Nencini and other Senators, 1-00425, presented by Senator Licheri and other Senators, 1-00427, presented by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and 1-00428, presented by Senators Bernini, Ciriani, Romeo and other Senators, on initiatives to follow up the constitutional dictation on the prohibition of the reorganization of the dissolved fascist party and motions on initiatives aimed at countering all forms of violence and totalitarianism. I call Senator Parrini to explain motion 422.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u68	Mr President, I am going to explain motion No 422, which we tabled as a Democratic Party after the events of 9 October. We begin with the consideration that we are faced with very serious events which we must not in any way be surrounded by underestimations. We have seen the devastation by a movement that is openly fascist against a union: this is unacceptable, as is unacceptable any act of illegal political violence. And it is an act that is made even more unacceptable by the circumstance that such events recall pages among the darkest in our country's history - a fascist movement that assaults a union - and by the circumstance that in such events violence has turned against an organization - the CGIL, to which our solidarity goes - which brings together millions of workers. [[Applause]] CGIL is a pillar of our democracy and a force of social cohesion in our country. They have been made of exceptional gravity, we have to tell us: there have been almost 40 wounded among law enforcement agencies, journalists, ordinary citizens. This episode of violence was - it must be said too - the last of a series, but more horrible than all the others who preceded it. We know that Forza Nuova is not unknown to the authorities and courts of our country; we know that there have been judgments of every degree of judgment that have affirmed the fascist and undemocratic character of the propaganda and activity of this movement. And we want to say with great force in Parliament that it is not very understandable for ordinary citizens to discuss what was the root cause of the violence on 9 October. [[Applause]] The matrix of the violence of October 9 is clearly fascist, for the words spoken, for the purposes stated, for the facts put on the field and for the chosen enemy. [[Applause]] Therefore, in our motion we also say that any ambiguity on the point is highly condemnable and we believe that no one should have any difficulty in recognizing the fascist matrix of that series of events that we have mentioned. As we know, in the history of our country illegal political violence of different origins, unfortunately, has established itself as a fact of great public importance in more times and with particular gravity. We know that there are precedents in which the so-called Scelba law was applied, which was made in 1952 to implement the twelfth transitional and final provision of the Constitution. We know that these precedents concern the New Order in 1973, after a judgment at first instance; National avant-garde in 1976, also in this case after a judgment of first instance; National Front in 2000, dissolved by a decree of the White Minister after a third-degree judgment. We know these precedents, we know the history of our country and we see that, in our opinion, the facts of October 9 determine the entrance into the scene of those elements of fact that trigger the applicability of the Scelba law just mentioned. The law of Scelba, with the additions introduced by the law of Mancino, attributes, in the face of phenomena like those of 9 October, precise competences to the judiciary and the Government, to which we have the utmost respect. Without prejudice to these powers, we believe that Parliament has, in the face of facts such as these and in the light of their exceptional gravity, not only the right, but also the duty to raise its voice and to express a clear position. Our position, which we express in a firm and composed manner but with great clarity, is that in the ways provided for by the law we must arrive at the dissolution of the New Force. [[Applause]] In saying this, Parliament does nothing less than its duty, it does not invade any competence, it fulfils a moral and political obligation: we believe that this must be clear. In some parts - and I am beginning to conclude - we have been asked to condemn all the subversive forces. I would like to say this forcefully: it is astonishing that we can doubt our opinion on this matter. I represent a party called the Democratic Party not for a semantic or adjective whim [[Applause]] , but for a profound reason. Those who sit on these benches know very well not only the twelfth transitional and final provision, but also Article 18 of our Constitution, which says that we cannot meet as individuals in association for purposes prohibited by law, as well as Article 270 of the penal code and - let me say - also knows Article 49 of our Constitution, which says that parties are decisive in defining the political direction of the nation, but that they can only do so if they follow a democratic method. [[Applause]] Having said that with great tranquility, this request seemed almost superfluous to us and in any case we have no embarrassment to reiterate our positions on the matter. We can't play throwing the ball into the stands or corner football. Parliament meets today, 20 October, eleven days after events which have a precise connotation and which I have mentioned, and in the supreme popular assemblies we are called upon to make a judgment on those facts, not to speak of anything else to diminish their seriousness. I believe that in this House we are also called to be mindful that we have a Constitution that has a precise origin, which derives from precise struggles and does not constitute the possibility of dissolution generically for forces that go against democracy and the established order, but foreshadows the possibility of dissolution exclusively for forces whose will is established to rebuild a party that adopts the methods of the dissolved fascist party. [[Applause]] In our Constitution, as usual, there are many answers to today's questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u69	I call Senator De Petris to explain motion No 423.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u70	Mr President, already yesterday, with the intervention of Senator Ruotolo, we had the opportunity to express our thoughts and our assessment of the events of 9 October, which are very serious and represent a watershed. Indeed, what has happened is not a general question of bad management of public order. Even the thesis of a sort of strategy of tension and conspiracy has been advanced, surely to divert attention from what happened and which represented a real leap of quality. The attack on the CGIL reminds, alas, the assaults on the chambers of work of about a hundred years ago and it means that it is Parliament's duty (and in fact today we are discussing it here in the Senate and tomorrow in the House) to address the issue. We have taken on the responsibility, together with other groups, to present a motion that illustrates exactly the things and explains well that we are not willing to tolerate any ambiguity on the point, because - here I say this - the matrix of what happened on 9 October last at the headquarters of the CGIL is clear and precise and is fascist. [[Applause]] We have even been accused of acts and initiatives of an instrumental nature, for the purposes of the election campaign. Now be quiet, because the elections have taken place and the contents of the motions presented are very clear and precise and it is good to remember and reaffirm in this House the values of our Constitution which, as Mr Parrini said, was not born by chance. Our Constitution was born from the struggle of the Resistance and is anti-fascist. This is his inspiration. [[Applause]] The inspiration is not generic, nor limited to the values and its Part I, as the Constitution contains the twelfth transitional and final provision. This is not only a reference to values, as the Fathers and the Mothers who constitute them have clearly indicated the way. The XII transitional and final provision explicitly prohibits the reorganization of the fascist party in any form and in 1952, with the so-called Scelba law, the instruments for implementing it have been identified. It is no coincidence that in the long years that have passed there have been examples, which have been cited, of the application of the Scelba law and of the adoption of measures for the dissolution of the New Order, National Avant-garde and National Front (I would like to remind you that a decree was adopted). So this is a process that has already been well tested. We should also consider how we have come to this point. In fact, the problem is not only that of contrast and tensions that there are in the matter of green pass and no vax, with the recording already of several episodes. There has been another problem for many years in this country and that is why it was right to bring the debate to this House, given the abnormal quality leap that occurred with the events of 9 October. I think that there has been an underestimation, which I do not blame to anyone, of the reorganization and activities of these neo-fascist groups, some of which have pointed out very clearly, so much so - I come to the point - that not only, as we have seen, on 9 October is the New Force leading the assault on the CGIL, but precisely on Forza Nuova there have already been pronouncements of the judiciary, there have already been judgments on the substance, precisely on the fascist character and reorganization of the fascist party. In my view, therefore, there has also been political underestimation. For a long time we heard that the Roman greetings, the gatherings, the descents from the stairs all dressed in black with the fascist greeting were to be considered as folklore. I believe that we must reflect on this, we must never underestimate the activity and reorganization of groups that are militantly opposed to constitutional values and that carry out activities that are often, as some judges say, dotted with real acts of aggression and violence. On this we must be very clear, we must eliminate both the underestimations and the ambiguities not only on what happened on 9 October, but also on the judgment given on these formations. I would like to say that in our motion, not by chance, we also mention the other formations, such as Casa Pound or Loyalty Action. There are a number of groups which have, in fact, taken on anti-democratic and racist behaviours, initiatives and methods. I would like to recall here a very clear passage from Article 1 of the Scelba law: For the purposes of the XII transitional and final (common first) provision of the Constitution, the dissolved fascist party is reorganized when an association or movement - or at least a group of people not less than five - pursues anti-democratic purposes proper to the fascist party, exalting, threatening or using violence as a method of political struggle or advocating the suppression of the freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution or denigrating democracy, its institutions and the values of the Resistance, or carrying out racist propaganda... As you can see, we could trace with absolute certainty all these activities in these formations and not by chance in our motion, as also in the motion of the other groups of the center-left, we ask for a series of measures that can intervene for the dissolution of all the neo-fascist formations. I believe that this is a clear and precise assumption of Parliament's responsibility, which clears the field and says clearly and solemnly what was the matrix of the fascist assault, which rejects and also invites the forces present here to reject all ambiguous attitudes on the point, because this concerns respect for constitutional values. Let us say very clearly that there are all the elements. The government represented here will, of course, be able to choose, as it is in its own faculties, the methods and instruments that can reach the end, but that end is clear and precise. We must intervene, Parliament will play its part, it will assume its responsibility with the hope that there will finally be the application of the XII transitional provision for these new groups and that the break-up of the New Force will take place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u71	I call Senator Nencini to explain motion 424.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the request for the dissolution of a political movement is an extreme measure, which must always be considered very carefully. It is a political decision even before a mechanism of public order, so it cannot germinate from the emotion of a moment: it must be considered and above all based on those principles and values that inverit the Constitution, avoiding making it an instrument of political struggle and using it as if it were a clava against the political opponent. In this case, however, Mr President, the freedom of ideas is not under discussion. Do you appreciate fascism? Many of us would have and have good arguments to prove that it was a totalitarian regime that used armed squadronism to go to power. The dead were killed more than 3,000, a couple of thousands of circles and trade unions and workers destroyed, the labor leagues devastated. A Calvary that lasted at least four years. A few hundred mayors were beaten, exiled, commissioners with the complicity of the liberal state. The point, therefore, is not today and here the freedom of ideas; the point is the reconstitution of a political force which is recalled and which is of a fascist nature, which uses and applies armed struggle as a method of political initiative. [[Applause]] That is the question to which we owe an answer. The protagonists do not deny that this is the case at all. The attack on the CGIL has happened, it is a fact; the threats of retracing this path in a future are another fact and not an opinion. I also wonder why we did not take decisive action to prevent the attack on the CGIL because it was not quite unknown, but this evidence does not of course change the state of things, let alone reduce its gravity. There is more and more: the consistency never profaned by the protagonists. Forza Nuova does not deny the inspiration that moves it and many of its leaders have trials in progress for violence, not for opinions that are renowned for the 20 years: concrete acts and not symbolic gestures. This is the border point and this is the discrimination. If this is the discrimination, how best we had listened to a unanimous chorus of condemnation days ago, not only of the events that took place on Saturday, October 9, but of fascism without the need for other adjectives. One word was enough: enough with that past. Not everyone said that. Some people preferred to walk around in the pages of the Devoto-Oli. The right thing to do last Saturday was to join the demonstration unitarily convened by the unions, all the parties, without exception, maybe someone clapping their noses, perhaps putting themselves in the wake of the article published many years ago by the daily "Unity" in homage to Gobetti, despite the defects inherent in its cultural origin, was a sincere friend of the working class. There is more: the climate in which these events ripen, the sum between a strong change that is rooted in a serious socio-economic crisis. The institutions are the first to be put in the sights; not only the institutions of the elected, but those that have territorial articulations and represent a world, such as the union. Among these, of course, are also the parliamentary institutions: I remember the Senate only a few years ago, a handful of years ago, treated - it was written - as if it were the latrine of the Nation, a can of tuna to open, screaming at man only at the command, worse than if we were on a movie set. I don't even forget flirts with conspiracy no vax, according to the dangerous thesis that freedom is an individual privilege to never share with anyone. For these reasons, the Italia Viva-PSI Group, in compliance with the Constitution, cited by Senator Parrini and Senator De Petris; in compliance with the law, cited by those who preceded me, and - I add - in compliance with the judgments of the Constitutional Court, all of which are clear, asks the Senate to commit the Government to take measures of its competence to proceed with the dissolution of Forza Nuova. To this end, this Group is part of the joint motion which shares this view. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u73	I call Senator Lomuti to explain motion 425.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 October, in the centre of Rome, there was a demonstration against the extension of the green pass to the generality of workers, which unfortunately resulted in a series of episodes of unexploited violence and vandalism, which we all know. These are the reasons why we are here today and are called upon to assume responsibility. What happened at the national headquarters of the CGIL is an episode that hurts all of us parliamentarians representatives of the institutions, but above all citizens. A violent act has been taken against democracy and against the Italian Constitution. [[Applause]] We must understand well the path on which we move, which is made up of two roads: one is the constitutional one, the other is the legislation of our laws that have been in force for too long and have not even been applied. Let's think of the law 20 June 1952, n. 645, so-called Scelba law. The episodes of vandalism and devastation of the premises of the CGIL were followed by arrests, among which belong to the New Force, but also to the armed revolutionary Nuclei (NAR). The investigations must of course go ahead and the footage must be evaluated, but be careful not to finally assume responsibility today for an act that has delimited the overcoming of a limit perhaps already exceeded a long time ago, for which far too much is expected an intervention of the Italian institutions and politics. We know - as Mr Nencini said - that the dissolution of a form of associationism, in this case political, is a strong act. We respect Articles 49 and 51 of the Constitution (the latter regulates access to elected posts). However, if we look at the transitional rules and, in particular, the XII transitional implementing rule for our Constitution, we are part of that perimeter. All we do today is apply that constitutional perimeter through the request for an assessment of the application of the 1952 Scelba law. However, we must also be a warning as representatives of Italian citizens. Attention, colleagues: you take a position contrary to what has been so far, blowing on the wind of some subversive and subversive movements because they were useful to your party and to your political group. You have to be brave today. That is the courage and responsibility of the representatives of the institutions. [[Applause]] You may be of a left or right party, but right doesn't mean you're necessarily fascist. If I were a right-wing representative, I would be anti-fascist, clearly anti-fascist because, being a representative of a political group, first comes respect for our Constitutional Charter. This is what we ask: simply the application of the Constitution through the application of the Scelba law. For this reason the Movimento 5 Stars adheres to the commitment requested by the other comrades who have preceded me, asking to evaluate the elements for the dissolution of New Force and other similar, subversive and fascist forces. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u75	I call Senator Iannone to explain motion No 427.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u76	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to highlight the motion we have tabled. As you said, Mr President, with the reading of the agenda, there is also the condemnation of totalitarianism and all forms of violence. Brothers of Italy is a party that does not have to deal with history, distinct and distant from any political experience that wants to affirm the method of violence in the political struggle. We believe that the historic resolution which was voted on by the European Parliament in 2009 condemning all totalitarianism and all forms of violence perpetrated by communist regimes in Central and Eastern Europe must also find citizenship and recognition in this House, so that everyone can say, without ambiguity, that violence and totalitarianism are not good, wherever they come from. We believe that dealing with the history and the current situation of the world is a necessity for all political forces, to say all together, on this occasion, that democracy is recognized, that there are no people who issue licences and that we cannot at all exploit events that receive unanimous condemnation. We must necessarily say that the world, if it lives a danger, lives it on the part of the communist totalitarian regimes, as the reports claim in over 34 nations. And we must necessarily together condemn even those who have relations with those regimes that do not cultivate the absolute value of freedom. We want to reach this definition and we want to affirm the condemnation of all violence. I would also like to recall the 215 million Christians who are persecuted worldwide by Islamic regimes, who tend to erase this identity precisely in the lands of Christendom's origin. [[Applause]] We must not give in to the shame of our identity. With our motion, we are asking for a series of commitments to the Government in this direction. But precisely because we aspire, we yearn and we hope that there will be the same attitude on the part of all political forces, we ask that we vote on our motion on the substance on the other occasion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u77	I call Senator Mallegni to explain motion No 428.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u78	Mr President, when the President of my Group asked me to present this motion, I accepted it in a very positive spirit. And this is because - perhaps nobody cares - I live and I was mayor in a municipality decorated by the gold medal to military valor for the massacre of Sant'Anna di Stazzema, in which 560 people died, as well as being one of the first members of the anti-fascist registry of the City of Stazzema and the National Park of Peace. My Socialist tradition has therefore always led me to have my point of view and my position clear. I don't need to testify that I'm anti-fascist. I am Italian, Republican and I wanted to testify with my subscription and my accession a principle and an important value that have characterized the Republic from 1948 onward. Now, because one of the constitutional and republican principles is freedom, within precise rules, moreover previewed and sanctioned by norms that provide that any madman unleashed, even if with different plates, must be somehow stopped, sanctioned, arrested, condemned and must serve all that is fair that discounts, I seem to have returned to my first weeks as mayor of Pietrasanta, now twenty years ago, when someone wanted to remove the busts in Mussolini marble, adorned by the greatest artists of Pietrasanta of the time, and Vittorio Emanuele. I remained grounded because I have never entrenched and frightened myself in front of the images, undoubtedly going to the substance. All we can do is condemn all kinds of violence, outrage and personal and constitutional prevarication. [[Applause]] But getting an outlaw party is completely wrong to me. In addition to the reasons I have already mentioned, I would like to remind myself that, on the occasion of an act of inspection union at my signature, which I presented once elected senator and in which I pointed out that a social center was improperly occupying an ANAS cantoneering house in Montignoso, someone who was an expert in public security and intelligence told me: Look, Senator, we all agree: at least we know where they are and we keep an eye on them all. Frankly, I did not welcome this kind of setting, but, with the increase in white hair in the last three and a half years, I realized that probably that concept wasn't entirely wrong. Today taking such a "stuff" and erasing it does not mean that those who are in it suddenly disappear; they may disappear from radars, but that's not what we want. [[Applause]] We need to see where they are, keep an eye on them, and possibly prevent them from moving, because they are probably delinquents, cursed, rascals who must be taken to jail. This must be done. I say probably because then there is justice, there are the courts and, therefore, you have to see whether they come to judgment or not, since for me they are all innocent up to the third degree of judgment. I take the sentences of a well-known right-wing journalist, Paolo Mieli - but perhaps he is not right-wing and I must be confused - that some evening ago in a beautiful television show on a network that I can't say what he was, LA7, led by Enrico Mentana, notoriously left-wing, told various journalists, almost all of them of extraction - these yes - of the left who, continuing this way, is the time that those on the right not only take a lot of votes, but probably become even more important than what they are. You have to stop waving the anti-fascist scare every time something happens. Otherwise, if we wave it again, we never question what happens on the other side, where it probably, sometimes, happens worse; but if you're not on the other side you're automatically fascist. I'll close the way I started. If I, who am anti-fascist, enrolled in the anti-fascist, socialist family, tradition and culture, republican, faithful to the Constitution, don't I think like you are fascist? No: you are fascists who want to drag me into a hole that is not mine. [[Applause]] That is why Forza Italia presented the document contained in our motion. Not only do we ask our people to vote on it, but we also ask you to vote on it. It would be a democratic exercise that would make you feel better. Believe me! In my opinion, the approval of motion 428 tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Ciriani, to which I add my signature in memory of the offices, would obviously be an extremely positive fact. We are firmly seated in this Parliament. We are loyal and faithful to the Republic and the Constitution. But we are loyal and faithful to the freedom that must be organized and followed with a sense of responsibility and justice, which is administered - as we often say - not always as we would like. But it is certainly to them that we leave this kind of profession and we must not replace ourselves with justice as a Parliament. Otherwise, Parliament itself would remember very much that of the twenty-year period. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u79	The stage of illustrations has thus ended. Having received an agenda from the same motion-holders, I would ask Senators Parrini, De Petris, Nencini and Lomuti whether they intend to withdraw their motions and replace them with the G1 agenda. Senators confirm. Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u80	Mr President, Italy is starting to live again after endless months. We bear the mourning of over 132,000 of our fellow citizens who have fallen for the pandemic, which is not defeated and we are still facing in parts of Europe, as the alarming data in Russia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and in many parts of the world say, especially the poorest countries, where vaccines are missing, where there are those who would do everything to be vaccinated, where there is no free and widespread vaccination as happened with exceptional timing in the strongest countries, including Italy, to show how free and universal health and health are the main common good, the cornerstone of a democracy and a state of law. President, Italy is starting to live and work again and, in particular, our manufacturing companies, which have suffered most in recent months. When Italy tries to restart, at the cost of enormous sacrifices, there are those who, in an organized and premeditated manner, try to exploit the difficulties and anger to attack democracy at a critical time. This is what they have been trying to do for months, since the beginning of the pandemic, the fascist organizations that still operate in our country. Different acronyms, but all linked by a black thread, by the attempt to raise rebellion against the institutions, by exploiting the protest against lockdown before, and against the green pass now. On Saturday afternoon, October 9, the assault at the headquarters of the CGIL, the main Italian union, emblem of the whole world of work, was to all intents and purposes a violent and planned act; an action of squadrismo conducted and openly announced by representatives of a fascist organization, Forza Nuova. The attack against the workers' organizations is an act that deliberately and explicitly recalls the fascist squadrism that a century ago was ravaged by the labor chambers, workers and the meeting places of the workers. Woe to trivialize or underestimate what is happening. It has a great value, then - for the united reaction of the whole country that testifies - the immediate visit of President Draghi to the headquarters of the CGIL, because, in the face of an eversive attack, which is an attack on democracy, on every citizen, on each of us, we have the duty to react, to say "never more fascism," as thousands and thousands of people have marked in St. John's Square only a few days ago, reaffirming their belonging not to a political part, but to belong to the values of our Constitution, of our Republic. Because the Constitution comes from the Resistance and is anti-fascist, where fascism is discrimination, abuse, denial of the rights of freedom and dignity of the person. Article 3 of our Constitution which affirms the universal principles of equality and non-discrimination; which affirms the right of everyone to be able to carry out their own life plan, whatever the social condition of departure, represents the ransom of our country, of all of us, after the abomination, after the absolute horror of racial and racist laws wanted by fascism. As soon as elected, the first public act that President Mattarella wanted to witness was to pay homage to the martyrs of Fosse Ardeatine. It is up to each of us to work to prevent fascism from returning: said President Mattarella in January 2018. And so it is, because the poison of fascism is an ever-present danger for our democracies. Today it manifests itself in the subtle forms of discriminatory discourses and hate incitement, which have grown enormously during the pandemic, especially on the net, and very often amplified by false information, by algorithms that are not transparent at all, and the strongest antidote is memory, is the civil testimony of memory. That is why we will never be grateful enough to President Mattarella for making Liliana Segre senator for life. The insults to Liliana Segre of a few isolated haters are an ignominy to all of us; the affection that is given to her everywhere, in particular by the new generations, is the vital hope that we have. President, among the rules contained in our Constitution, there are the instruments to defend our democracy from violent and subversive acts, such as the disruptive one of 9 October, or from countless others, less striking, but just as dangerous, such as the continuous threats and intimidation to journalists who investigate the net of neo-fascistism. There are instruments that must be used, and for this reason we call for the dissolution, according to law and on the basis of constitutional dictation, of Forza Nuova and other fascist organizations. We are doing this on a motion, Mr President, which we have asked all political forces, of all colors, to support. But that was not the case, and that is a great regret, and it is also a problem for our democracy. Because Italy needs a pro-European right, capable of saying itself "anti-fascist," in the wake of the Constitution. But this is not yet the case, and this is demonstrated once again by the ambiguous words of Giorgia Meloni and Matteo Salvini. To those who still had difficulty in recognizing the matrix of the squadrista attack of October 9, let's go and see the photos, the swastikas tattooed on the arm of the assailants. Mr President, we know and have a duty to say loudly in this House that those who attacked the CGIL and held hostage for a whole night doctors and nurses in the emergency room of the Umberto Hospital I has nothing to do with the workers, the citizens, the families who, in a thousand difficulties, give the most to get Italy out of the tunnel of the pandemic. It is to them, to their needs, to their anxieties and to their expectations that we and our democracy will have to give answers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u82	Mr President, members of the Government, my fellow senators, I sincerely hope that I will not be disrespectful of anyone in saying that we are losing sight of the meaning of reality. As often happens in our complicated country, the combination of partisan political calculations, good faith ideological tics and the natural emotion of public debate is leading us to lose sight of reality. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are not at the dawn of a return to fascism. The comparison between Italy today and Italy in 1921 is ridiculous, as well as being offensive to the memory of those who have really opposed fascism, the real one. [[Applause]] The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are talking about a force more like a stadium movement, frequented by criminals more or less common, prone to trafficking and delation, than in the last elections to which it has appeared, the Europeans of two years ago, not long ago, took 0.15 percent of the votes. This, in fact, is the true sequel to New Force. [[Applause]] The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is the one perfectly represented by the Head of State when he said that the attack on CGIL is a disturbing fact, but it does not worry. [[Applause]] These were the words of the Head of State: right to be upset; right to punish with the greatest possible penalty and all possible law aggravating agents who have committed those facts; absurd to worry. And it would be appropriate for the party and the representatives of the party of which the Head of State is an expression to adhere to the meaning, as well as to the letter, of those words. The point is to avoid that, by dramatizing things, things get worse rather than better. Of course, we should all lower our tones. I found to say the least inconvenient the evocation of the strategy of tension. It is clear that there were serious underestimates on the part of those responsible for public security on 9 October. It is clear that serious mistakes have been made. It is natural that the Minister of the Interior is politically responsible for those errors and understatements. It is legitimate for the opposition to ask for its head, if it considers it appropriate to ask for its head. It is reckless to evoke the strategy of tension. It is reckless, because it does not delegitimize the person, the Minister of the Interior as such, but delegitimizes the function that the person plays. What Cossiga believed to be the most delicate, sensitive and powerful Ministry of the Republic is delegitimized: the Ministry of the Interior. There is a climate in which public opinion has a feeling of distrust and suspicion, not towards the current Minister of the Interior, but towards all the institutions. And that, whoever has a sense of reality and of the state, doesn't. Avoid doing so; simply avoid doing so, colleagues. [[Applause]] Then, of course, we are witnessing a somewhat comfortable representation, which is silent a part of the truth. Now, what is the horror of fascism with anti-fascist and democratic eyes? Violence and prevarication. I tell you three episodes, which occurred in what has recently been called the most progressive city in Italy. It is Bologna, but such episodes have occurred, take place and I fear that they will happen in all Italian cities. The protagonist of these episodes is the Autonomous University Collective, acronym CUA. Three facts: the first takes place during a meeting of the rectorate. He breaks into a handful of 30 people in the CUA, which subdues the premises and hangs a sign around the dean's neck, a sign that is obviously derogatory. The poor rector of that time, Ivano Dionigi, an illustrious Latinist, more than mild person, terrified, can only whisper: Please, your hands are not on. Second episode: to prevent the university library of Via Zamboni from continuing to be a place not only of study, but also of dealing, of sale of stolen bicycles, of grazing of young people not enrolled in the university, are implanted turnstiles at the entrance, and can only access the students, a way to guarantee the right to study. May it ever be! To the cry "Let's take back our university!" the usual handpiece of the CUA bursts, digs the turnstiles, puts the premises to rest and prevents the students from enjoying that library for a long time. Third episode: Angelo Panebianco, leader of Italian political science, a man of solid liberal culture, then an enemy of the people, holds his lesson in Political Science; the lesson is interrupted, Panebianco is attacked, threatened, reduced to silence. Now I can tell you, with knowledge of the cause, not only that there was no mobilization, no call to the defense of democracy, no editorial appeal of the great national newspapers, but it was also impossible for the newspaper of the city to find a single university professor, colleague of Angelo Panebianco, willing to give an interview not in solidarity of Panebianco, but in defense of those sacred principles that we all honor to represent. [[Applause]] Why? Because someone was ideologically conniving with the violent CUA and most were afraid: he was simply afraid, colleagues. So, there is black fascism, as there is what Amendola called "red fascism." If they had told me that I would regret the old PC, I wouldn't have believed it, but it is so: the red fascists exist and the old PC recognized them and condemned them as black fascists. Both, when they commit crimes, must be punished with the greatest possible penalty and with all possible aggravating factors, but neither one nor the other represents a threat to democracy, clearly, as the Head of State said. Colleagues, I think we should be a little more realistic, a little less ideological, a little less emotional. I think it would be appropriate to establish principles: violence and abuse always go - always! - convicted; those responsible for criminal acts of political violence must be punished, with all the instruments that the law allows. But I would be careful to dissolve a political party, least of all to dissolve it by the push of Parliament (among other things we live in a quasi-exception state). It's a very, very slippery decision. As horrible as the political party in question can be to us, let's slow down. Moreover, the rule of dissolution evidently referred to another world, when the parties were the place of mobilization, consent and propaganda. All this is no longer at the head of the parties, which no longer exist - let us be honest - but there are socialists and, therefore, to dissolve by decree a political party not only does not inhibit its capacity for propaganda and mobilization, but unquestionably increases it, and makes the dissolved a point of reference for a confused, complex, variegated world. We would put them at the head of the no vax universe, and I do not believe that it is in the interest of anyone, indeed of anyone; besides being true - as Mr Mallegni said - that they would disappear and therefore it would be more difficult to exercise the functions of control by public security bodies. So, colleagues, let's be careful, let's slow down. There's only one way to make the ghosts that most terrify us materialize: Summon them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u83	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if on 9 October there had not been the fascist squadronist assault at the national headquarters of the CGIL and, after a few hours, at the emergency room of the Umberto I Hospital, we would not be here today to discuss the request for the dissolution of the New Force. We have witnessed very serious acts of violence, characterized by a disturbing and subversive office. Yesterday we heard the words from the Minister of the Interior: "intriguing eversive charge" of evident fascist matrix. It seems to me that we've read it everywhere, we've listened to it everywhere. It's weird that you're wondering about the matrix, and I repeat strange. That of 9 October was a real attack on our democracy, but above all on our Constitution. Our Constitution is the guarantor of our democracy. It is precisely the Constitution that dictates the rules of democratic debate. We certainly and freely participate in the democratic debate if we remain in its rules, and it is always only the respect of the Constitution that dictates the rules of the debate. The 12th transitional provision of the Constitution, which sets the external limit, which is very clear, and the boundary of democratic debate, has already been mentioned in the speeches before me. The external boundary posed by our Constitution is precisely the prohibition of the reconstitution of the dissolved fascist party. When there is evidence that this can happen, we can and must act in defence of our democracy. You can act by a judgment of the judiciary or by a decree of the government. But the need is always the same: the way to pursue it changes, but the need is always that of protecting our democracy. Democracy can also be protected by other means and I think of those provided for by the law of the Scelba: the suspension or surveillance of activities. We have seen, for example, cases of seizure or closure of certain premises, but Article 3 of the Scelba law speaks of necessity and urgency. To get to this you have to investigate and really do it, not trivialize and not talk about folklore. The well-made and in-depth investigations, even with the help of the Scelba law, have already given the results on this same subject. In 1973 it was dissolved New Order, in 1976 it was dissolved Avanguardia Nazionale, in 2000 it was dissolved the National Front. The regulatory instruments are there and we ask for the protection of democratic and republican legality. I said that the facts we are discussing should not be trivialized or diminished. So it is precisely these facts that we need to analyse in the current context, a context that also sees intolerance and extremism growing in the European Union. Speaking of intolerance, I would like to remind this House that 12 members of Forza Nuova were sentenced by the Forlì court after staged a fake funeral in front of the town of Rimini, just as the mayor, the tempore, celebrated the first civil union. Intolerance against any person they consider to be different is a specific sign of the fascists. That must be made clear. I would not have to remind this House of the fascist assault of New Force against my own person in Gaeta some time ago, just behind the approval of the Civil Unions Act. And undersecretary Scalfarotto knows well, who fought with me to get that law. The current neofascism winks at precisely this: at everything that is subversive, at everything that is rebellious, it sees irrationality, suspicion, conspiracy against science, against the dominant culture. At the basis of the welding between this neofascism and rebelliousness is social anger, the result of individual frustration caused by subjective economic situations in pandemic times of emergency and not only. It is to this social anger that the sovereignist and nationalist culture is addressed, using in an instrumental way the social discomfort. It is also on this uneasiness that we Parliament must intervene to prevent the institutions in which we all sit - the institutions are also us - from being seen as enemies. Instead, we must be places of listening and processing of answers, because only by fighting inequalities and loneliness will all extremism be defeated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u85	Mr President, a few moments ago Senator Cangini reminded us of the sense of reality, but I would like the sense of reality not to obscure the meaning of history. Eleven days have passed since very serious events, not that they have threatened, but that threaten constitutional democracy and the constituted republican order; very serious events put in place by forces of declared fascist inspiration. He's not a fascist scarecrow, Senator Mallegni, but he's a declared fascist inspiration. Just consult, browse, not even read, their publicity to get an idea. Today Parliament takes on its constitutional responsibility, even before it is political, to denounce those facts and to proclaim that the Constitution is the reference that must always guide us as parliamentarians. There is no misplaced claim, as someone would like us to believe, but only our parliamentary responsibility proclaimed clearly and without infancy. I would like to recall here the thought of two eminent German political philosophers who have studied totalitarianism and in some way dedicated their lives, not only intellectual but also personal, to combat totalitarianism. I am referring to Hannah Arendt, who said that once a form of government has established itself it can always return, beyond the temporary historical defeats. The second reflection that I invite you to deepen is that of another philosopher, Norbert Elias, who wrote about Hitler's Germany that totalitarianism was not a necessary consequence, but only a possible consequence, and that the fact that the possibility has been realized must make us reflect on the fragility of the civilization process and the need to never lower the guard in defending it. Well, today our task is precisely this: do not lower your guard to defend national civilization inspired by the and the Constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u86	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u87	Mr President, we are discussing a specific matter, that is to say, people who are identified who are recognized in a political formation identified and who have attacked a trade union headquarters. Announce it. I do not see how we can say that dissolving, as the law provides, this type of formation, since perhaps it does not eliminate the phenomenon, is not a solution. There's no middle ground. What is the solution? Do they have to be tolerated? It is asked to tolerate why perhaps so much would not be achieved the elimination of a drive that is still praiseworthy of fascism, neo-fascism and neo-Neonazism? Honestly, I cannot follow this reasoning and I believe that it leads to absolutely unacceptable solutions, even from a logical point of view. I should like to make a few comments. Antifascism is not a political part. I would like to read some stories: Don Giovanni Minzoni, chaplain in the Great War, silver medal, priest in Argenta, always close to farm workers, supporter of Catholic trade unionism founded circles for the acculturation of the most humble classes, opposes the fascist violence of Italo Balbo, killed at manganellate near the canon on 23 August 1923. Tina Anselmi sided with antifascism when she saw young partisans brought to the hanging. Staff of the Partisan Brigades, Cesare Battisti entered the Christian Democracy in 1944 and became its leader. Piero Calamandrei, jurist, professor and rector of the University of Florence, collaborated with Salvemini, was founder and participated in Justice and Freedom and then in the Action Party and opposed the law fraud. Dante Livio Bianco was also a great liberal. Ernesto Rossi in the First World War discussed with the socialists about their positions on the veterans; he collaborated with the People of Italy, joined the National Union of Giovanni Amendola, was one of the founders of Justice and Freedom and was part of the Pardi Government and later became one of the founders of the Radical Party. Laura Bianchini, Brescia, during the Nazi occupation enters the Resistance with the Green Flames, coordinates the clandestine press directed to the Catholic formations and, after the liberation, is a member of the Constituent and then elected deputy in the Christian Democracy. There are many other names I could make, but the point is one. The anti-fascist discrimination founded the unity of the Resistance and the political and institutional pact on which the Constitution is founded; it founded the republican unity in the various political cultures animating the great mass parties and not only (also of the liberal and republican party); it founded post-war republican democracy and the unitary and plural connotation is indissolubly linked to the democratic, republican and anti-fascist characteristic. So when we talk about anti-fascism we are not referring to a historical moment and we cannot accept the idea that it is something that is outdated, because it is the founding and unifying figure of our Constitution and our democratic and liberal system. As Carlo Smuraglia said, today's anti-fascism is not the nostalgia for the anti-fascism of that time, but it is the connotation that makes us democratic citizens. Our Constitution is anti-fascist, with a set of rules to protect democracy, freedom, unity, social dimension and balance between the powers of the State, respect, protection and dialogue with minorities, the role of Parliament, political dialectic as a free confrontation and respect for all. For this reason, to call to fascism today and attack the seat of an important union is not a folkloristic phenomenon, but it is also a symbolic attack and it is therefore directly on which side you stand compared to what happened. Today, the whole of Parliament should recognize itself not only in condemning this act, but also in rejecting any attack and calling for the dissolution of the New Force. This is republican unity, pluralism and full recognition of the values of our Constitution. This is the high task to which we are called, and it is the republican spirit. There is no room for distinctions, well-otherwise, alternative roads or middle routes. This is being Italy and this is the pride of being Italian. For these reasons, we shall vote in favour of the motion which is intended to commit the Government to the dissolution of the New Force. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u88	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u89	Mr President, the events of 9 October have determined for Parliament not an opportunity, not a choice, but the duty to table a motion for the dissolution of Forza Nuova. It is true that the dissolution of fascist organizations is the responsibility of the Government or the judiciary, but as parliamentarians we cannot fail to give instructions to the Government to intervene in this regard. We of course give directions, then the government will find the best way to implement the XII transitional provision of the Constitution and to implement the law Scelba of 1952. Senators have recalled the various judgments that have dissolved other neo-fascist movements: in 1973 Ordine Nuovo, in 1976 Avantguardia Nazionale and in 2000 Fronte Nazionale. Can Parliament allow the attack on CGIL to take place, which is so reminiscent of the attacks on the chambers of work? No, it cannot, but not only because of the attack on the CGIL, but because there are neo-fascist claims on the part of Forza Nuova, therefore the Italian Left, which I represent, strongly calls for the dissolution by the Government, with the instruments it considers appropriate, of Forza Nuova and of all the fascist and neo-fascist organizations that present themselves and present themselves. I agree that it is not the first and will not be the last, this will not eliminate the desires for the recovery of the fascist party in our country, but we have the duty, as representatives of a Parliament that was born of an anti-fascist constitution, to keep the antennas high, to look far away and to prevent any fascist nostalgia present. There are some things that are not clear, it is true, Senator Cangini recalled it among others: how was it possible that people known to have these urges and that are not ordinary criminals - they were also MEPs, they had a Daspus and are known in Lazio, in Rome, as people who have always carried on these ideas - reach the headquarters of the CGIL after announcing it? This is not only the responsibility of the Minister, I am sorry, but in Rome we have the Prefect Plantadosis, who was Chief Cabinet of Minister Salvini, who I had the chance to see how strong he was with the weak when this summer we did a garrison at the Albano dump and gave the Daspus to an eighteen-year-old boy who can no longer pass through the territory of Albano just for having put on the road to block a truck that carried dirt not according to norm. Yet he was strong, the prefect, on that occasion, knew very well how to make strong with the weak, but he was not able to make strong with the powerful and dangerous, invoking public order. I put a question on this, because it is too easy to blame the Minister when we have a prefect. Are they folklore fascism and antifascism? I don't think we can say that lifting your stretched arm or tattooing a swastika is folklore, because here we have a life senator who has suffered such folklore and really, having heard her speeches, we should be able to understand what fascism is and what anti-fascism is. I also address those who claim the opposite extremisms: beware that there is no Left Fascism and a Right Fascism, but there is democracy and anti-fascism and only within democracy are Right and Left, who have a duty to be anti-fascist and to have antibodies against any kind of fascism present, with whatever flag it is carried forward. Many have said that we are not faced with the fascism of the 1930s, that there is no danger. They are right, because in fact we are facing a new fascism, in front of an organized fascism. We know that there is a recent survey of neo-Nazi groups who circulated the fake news on vaccine gene therapy and let's not forget that this has to do with the protection of the pure race. These are invocations that lead to an ancient legend. It is a new fascism, which for years has created undisturbed fake news, from the great invasion to NGOs as taxis of the sea, to the great plot to kill everyone with vaccines. They are dangerous, destabilizing, subversive fake news and are all part of a strong propaganda, they circulate through various channels, from the web to so-called independent televisions and are persuasive and pervasive, you find them on your smartphones. Forward, forward, forward, they don't tell us, but they want to kill us all. Forwards, they all want to invade us; forwards, because great solidarity is a weakness; the solidarity of the post-war era was a mistake, because they invaded us; solidarity with others, to be practiced by vaccinating, is a weakness, because everyone must preserve his own identity, his own selfishness. This is the new fascism we are facing. I expect this Parliament to be able to respond strongly to these regurgitations which are not innocent at all, because they have an economic force and an international force that we as Parliament cannot ignore. Therefore, on behalf of the Italian Left, but on behalf of any democratic person, even if it were Right (I am not, but I respect an anti-fascist Right), I will vote in favour of the motion for the dissolution of Forza Nuova and of all the organizations that celebrate these madnesses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u90	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u91	Mr President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the experience of white hair, which really involves a journey of years and age, can lead me to recall the foundation of my political education matured in the family in years, as you can easily imagine, very close to the post-war period, in which the slogan was very simple: neither fascists nor communists. We were very clearly determined to grasp, to know, to experience that there was really right-wing violence and left-wing violence. Even in the following years, for example, with student movements around the end of the 1960s, it was evident that there was right-wing violence and left-wing violence. Today we want to place the violence of Right outside the constitutional arc, but that is what happened until the figure of Berlusconi appeared on the political scene, who made that singular operation of political synthesis to unite the entire area of the Centre, with a strong, significant, culturally capable center to elaborate theories and concepts, but also models and projects, and which quietly included the whole area that could then be of National Alliance and today of Brothers of Italy. Until then, he was outside the constitutional arch. However, there was also the violence of the Left, which was present within the democratic arc, but it was a possible violence, we experienced it: whoever is a certain age lived it and we, who always together with so many friends represented the famous Center, were there to defend ourselves from the Right and the Left, from the experience of physical violence and from the experience of intellectual violence. Before, Mr Cangini made a very hard reference to the silence of his friends in the Panebianco case, therefore to the silence for fear of media violence, of the violence that appears easily in the press. Just take the headlines of a few days ago: there is this fear that brings you to say - and I would like to echo the words of a famous show by Gigi Proietti -: "but who does it? But let it lose! This is because sometimes there is such a powerful impact, that in fact it manages to freeze the resources of those who would like to witness a different political position. There is no doubt that our no to violence must be written in cubic characters everywhere and in any case, because it is the stigma of our political position. A center is by definition non-violent, it is by definition inclusive and dialogue, it is by definition open to welcome and listen, even if not to share, to the reasons of the other. Now I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we are at this moment in the face of this challenge: as paradoxical as it may seem, the evaluation of the last elections that took place just a few days ago showed how the winner candidates, certainly as far as the centre-right area is concerned, were all of a strong centralist character. Even the majority of candidates in the left-wing area who won could boast a predominantly civic profile, as professionals, with skills, with their own ability to govern, but still looked towards a center. We are facing this challenge today. In the face of the reconstruction of the facts we can accentuate its interpretation that stresses the dimension of the violence of the individual, making it rise to the rank of violence of a group not only of troublemakers, but even of a part of the country, or the wisdom, which assumes violence as a condemnation of a personal responsibility, precise and concrete for which there can be no excuses and which in a sense goes to seek complicity also. In fact, it is not possible that everything happened for one, just like the reconstruction of events, starting with the improper presence of that subject on that stage, had a series of connivances behind it. Going to grasp the connivances and going to recapture them from the point of view of personal, professional and political responsibility, is a concrete and positive action that says to the people who are outside "Look" - I also say according to the famous verses - "in front of you there is good and there is evil, you can choose one or the other." There is, however, a responsibility for choice. This is the point that we must highlight in a political and cultural formation action. There is freedom and it is this freedom that makes actions responsible; it is for this freedom that the consequences will have to be taken and therefore also those that can be, depending on what will be decided at the level of the judiciary, the punishments. Attention, however, to demonize a modus and even, as someone said, to make believe that any subject who is currently afraid, anxious or worried about vaccination is ipso facto one of an inverse and violent grouping is really excessive. I may have my doubts about the vaccine. I obviously haven't, I've already written, said and done everything I could do for vaccines, but I can understand. I can say I take responsibility. Yesterday, responsibility was decided for those who intentionally, even in this House, not only reject the vaccine, but also the documentation of its condition, so the buffer rather than the green pass, but I cannot make very heavy statements, as has been done, against anyone who does not want to vaccinate, anyone who somehow does not believe in science. I am deeply convinced that we need more scientific education, that we have to start from the base, we don't have to do certain cultural operations just under the wall. Only a few years ago we had the battle of embryonic stem cells with the famous Davide Vannoni. But we cannot trigger this short circuit, which is very worrying in those who did it, because then the violence of the individual becomes the ignorance of the subject and the ignorance of the subject becomes the demonization of science. Too much, gentlemen! We need peace. If we want this last phase of our parliamentary term to be constructive and truly oriented towards the management of the PNRR, as we all want, we need peace and for peace we need a different dialogue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u92	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u93	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, at the beginning of this speech I would like to express, on behalf of myself and on behalf of the entire Lega per Salvini Premier Group, my solidarity with Senator Liliana Segre, for the vile attack she has received in recent days, when such a Captain, president of the "Primum non nocere" association, has defined her as a shameful person who should disappear. For our part there is all solidarity with Senator Liliana Segre. [[Applause]] I stress that the author of this cowardly gesture has always called himself anti-fascist. At the same time I want to remember what happened in Milan a few days ago, when anarchists of red matrix tried to attack the headquarters of the "Corriere della Sera," the headquarters of the Region and finally the Milanese CGIL. Even to them goes our solidarity, pointing out that these warriors, who have not succeeded in their aim only thanks to the Forces of the Order, are anarchists declaredly of red matrix. [[Applause]] I also take this opportunity to express closeness and respect for all the Forces of Order, for the work they are doing especially in these difficult days; both to the Forces of Order in that of Trieste, where they have been forced to carry out unfortunately bad dispositions, and to the Forces of Order in that of Genoa, where, since there are not these dispositions, they have been able even to bring breakfast to democratic and peaceful demonstrators. What do I mean by that, ladies and gentlemen? Do I want to race to determine who's more violent and who's less violent? Absolutely not. I just want to reiterate in this House a trivial, objective, indisputable fact that violence and intolerance are all political in nature and that the stupid, the criminal and the scary find them everywhere. So going to make divisions that are out of our time and that do not have a social and cultural connection with the time we live in is a serious political error. [[Applause]] The fascist danger is a farce and is as realistic as a spaceship in a black hole. The historical, social and cultural conditions of that characteristic totalitarian phenomenon are not remotely reflected in the current reality of any country. This was not declared by a nostalgic grump from a few decades ago, but Massimo Cacciari, your Maximus Cacciari, declared it a few days ago, who is evidently telling you that you completely ignore the context in which we live. Let's go to the motions. I believe that the motions that call for the dissolution of the New Force and other movements that are called extremists are politically controversial and slippery - as has been said before - and technically useless, because this House has no competence and because there is no basis for the dissolution of this rather than of that other political movement. In the meantime it is right to point out that the only reason a movement can be dissolved is the attempt to reconstitute the dissolved Fascist Party. Neither the apology, nor the fascist manifestations, nor any other sentiments of which I have heard in previous speeches can cause the dissolution of a political movement, because to guarantee these movements there is the pluralism recognized and guaranteed by our Constitution. Then, coming to the premises and competences, in order to be able to dissolve a political movement for the reconstitution of the dissolved fascist party there may be two conditions: either a definitive condemnation for this crime of the perpetrators of the conduct, with the consequent intervention of the Minister of the Interior, which must have the approval of the Council of Ministers, or the necessity and urgency for which the dissolution is carried out immediately. It is clear to everyone that in this context neither the one nor the other premise is used, for which you have put here today a political flag at a time when this House could have dealt with much more urgent matters of interest to the Italians. [[Applause]] , especially at a difficult time like the present one. There is a strong and well-founded doubt that is circulating in Italian society: isn't it that with the passing of the elections the fascist danger is also disappearing? In fact, if this were the case, your behavior, the use of the fascist danger instrumentally, perhaps even for electoral purposes, would be a serious, serious disrespect for all Italians. If we were to dissolve New Force, would we solve the problem of violence and intolerance? No. It has already been said very well before: if an extremist political movement were to be dissolved, we would give one more opportunity to these stupid delinquents to operate anonymously; we would give one more opportunity to these stupid delinquents to pursue their criminal purpose, which also means disturbing sacring democratic demonstrations, beyond the sharing or not of these principles. The invitation I address is to avoid looking at ghosts from the past that will never come back, but instead to focus on what is the current state and the current risk, which can be an expression of anyone, from right to left, trying to suppress those who do not observe democratic rules and act with violence and intolerance. The current challenge with regard to this issue is to adopt a measure that is in step with the times and that averts the degeneration, both of violence, and of intolerance. The way is only one, that of unity. Last Saturday, for example, you wasted a great opportunity to embark on the path of unity because that demonstration was not wrong only for the context in which it took place, that is, during the electoral silence, in a city in which - the capital of Italy - you were going to choose the mayor; you have made part and therefore weaker a demonstration that could and should have been the manifestation of all Italians, against all violence and all intolerances. [[Applause]] What sadness, then, at the very moment when we talk about freedom and democracy, to have seen the flag of the Soviet regime planted in St. John's Square in Lateran, that regime that recalls the suffering of the gulags and the dramatic division of the Berlin Wall. We must be united to isolate the criminals, the warriors and the extremists and make them suffer the penalty that the law provides. Only in this way must we act in order to guarantee the free expression of thought in accordance with democratic rules and in all the forms that democracy envisages. The way to unity is one and perhaps for you, dear colleagues on the left, it is also painful: you have to take a great bath of humility, you have to abandon the boasted moral superiority, which you have never really had. We must overcome this habit and the example that is still current is given by the very serious affirmation of the Deputy Secretary of the Democratic Party of Provence, who spoke a few days ago. No one - not even the deputy secretary of the Democratic Party - must afford to assert that a political force can be put out of the constitutional arc. [[Applause]] This is intolerance. Italy has paid a high price on this conflict between good and bad. We must overcome the law of Scelba, as amended by the law of Mancino and above all we must overcome this conflict. Many were the victims in the years of lead and also after, to the right and left, young and very young. I want to conclude this intervention with a sentence that puts an end to a theatrical representation that describes the dramatic story of Sergio Ramelli, but that can affect any guy of any political party. And when you are happy and enjoy the freedom that the brave have given you, have a caress for them that have passed as a caress passes in the wind. No more intolerance, no more violence! We must be just, mature and responsible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u94	The debate is closed. ( [[Comments of Senator La Russa).]] Senator La Russa, you were supposed to intervene three quarters of an hour ago, and unfortunately you passed your turn. I sum up for the others. The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. 422, 423, 424 and 425 are withdrawn and transformed into agenda G1. On Amendment No 428 there is a text 2 and the remaining motion No 427 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u97	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I wanted to apologize for disturbing the order of business and for not being able to speak when I was called. ( [[Comments]] ). Excuse me? I've got the mask. You're so far away, it's hard for you to get infected.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u98	Please, we have conducted a proper and regular course of action on the whole debate, although the subject is extremely sensitive. Let's keep it going.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u99	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). I'm wearing the mask, although I think we have more serious problems right now. Excuse me, but how will it emerge from that little press that exists I was not playing, but I accompanied Giorgia Meloni to the top with Silvio Berlusconi and Matteo Salvini. ( [[Comments]] ). It's not an explanation, and I'm apologizing. Can you have the goodness to listen two minutes or are you in a terrible hurry? The president has decided.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u100	Senator La Russa, I haven't decided. I should have said: he is not present and he is meant to have given up. I didn't do it as a courtesy to her.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u101	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). President, that is exactly what I was saying. It does not appear to me that, at the time when I had to be called, it was decided to exclude the possibility of intervening before the general debate was closed. I understand that there is an order of intervention and I apologized, but this is a practice that has been so often passed at the request of the Presidency and the courtesy of colleagues. I regret that in this case, on a subject on which I am the only one of the opposition to intervene, it was considered to be impossible to intervene in such a rigid manner. President, I would have said that the Brothers of Italy Group is compact in its motives; it is not as certain left that in Europe against all totalitarianisms voted differently and many did not want to vote for the condemnation of all totalitarianisms. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u102	Senator La Russa, for Brothers of Italy Senator Iannone has already spoken and Senator Ciriani will speak in an explanation of vote. [[Comments of Senator La Russa]] I didn't say he spoke in question. (Repliche). All right, next time you get to the right time. [[Protests.]] Senator Balboni, I'm not ashamed of anything: sit down! I read a communication from the Chairman of the Movimento 5 Star Group: The request for electronic voting submitted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure is hereby requested for the remainder of today's sitting. President Ettore Licheri. Therefore, the initial request is intended to be withdrawn. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u103	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u104	Colleagues, if you ask to speak on the 'disorder of work', I do not give the floor. I urge Senator La Russa to keep the mask to ensure the peace of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u107	AIROLA (M5S). Forgive me, Mr President, but I did not take the issue of non-electronic voting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The request for electronic voting made at the beginning of the sitting was withdrawn and the subsequent votes could therefore be taken in another way. AIROLA (M5S). Has she been withdrawn from the Movement I'm a part of? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Exactly: from Senator Licheri, who is his Parent Company. AIROLA (M5S). I missed it, thank you, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You did very well to ask for a clarification, partly because this is the first time this has happened, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u110	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you for a half-hour suspension, if possible, to check certain points with the Government, also in view of the presentation you have made now. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u113	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). If my Holding Company so permits, Brothers of Italy is not against it, even to point out the difference between the five minutes denied to me and the half hour just required for who knows what reason. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u114	In the absence of opposition, I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4 p.m. and resumed at 5 p.m.) The session is resumed. I invite the representative of the Government to comment on text 3 of motion 428.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u115	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u116	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u119	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, if it were not tragic, it would be comical. Democracy and freedom scream in the streets the neo-fascists; their own, the nostalgic of a regime that deprived of freedom of speech and killed those who denounced it. What would their Mussolini do with the no masks, no vax, no pass, with those for whom the only law is the transgression to the law? It is a great luxury to shout at the dictatorship in a democracy; above all it is a real scam to evoke an ideology of the submission of individuals to talk about trampled freedoms. To say what Hitler and Mussolini were and what the dictatorship was, it would be enough to reread the writings of the suspects of homosexuality and political dissidents; it would suffice to ask the Jewish community, but even the South Tyrolean can tell it: that regime despised all the different and different, wanted to force us to become Italian in all respects, banned our language and our traditions and changed the names of our cities and even our surnames. Even after the end of the regime, South Tyrol was a battlefield for the neo-fascists, who made every effort to blow the commitment to peaceful coexistence between the two cultures, so much so that, after years, still too many Italians exchange those of fascism with the symbols of Italian culture. For this reason we are particularly sensitive to the awakening of an ideology that poisoned the wells of our civil life even after its fall. That is why, at the beginning of the legislature, we filed a proposal for the extension of the Left-Hand Act to all forms of fascist propaganda. The problem, in fact, is that Italy has never really dealt with its own history. There is too much tolerance towards those who praise the duke and the years of the regime; too much condescension towards the Roman greeting and certain ways of saying of the twenty years; too much indulgence towards the fascist symbolism, flaunted for the sale of bottles of wine, keychains and calendars. It is not, as some say, a question of folklore: it is political propaganda, aimed at legitimizing, especially in the eyes of the younger generations, the fascist twenty years. Not to mention, then, the ambiguities and linguistic aversions of some right-wing parties, until they come to define the matrix of squadrismo of 9 October. All this, of course, represents an optimal ground for organizations such as the New Force, Nazi-fascist, xenophobic, racist, violent and anti-Semitic, as has also been established by two statements of the Supreme Court, which has collected a number of convictions for episodes of violence, intimidation and threats and which, at the same time, fight for a traditionalist conception of the family, against abortion and women's emancipation. With the pandemic for squadronists a new political front has opened: To lead that magmatic area that denies science and sees in the Covid a punishment of God and a worldwide plot for the health dictatorship, all causing a climate of increasing tension until the assault on the CGIL, which too recalls the aggressions at the Chambers of work of a hundred years ago with which the regime began. The tolerance threshold has been exceeded: politics must act. In Germany the law prohibits all forms of eulogy of Nazism, from symbols to Nazi greetings. The only party that winks at neo-Nazi organizations is the Alternative für Deutschland (AFD), which in Parliament is completely isolated. No other political force cooperates with one who does not clearly distance himself from Nazism and it has often happened that a politician has had to resign for an ambiguous sentence. It is time to do the same in Italy. What happened on 9 October in Rome is clearly one of the cases provided for by the Scelba law, namely the denigration of democracy and its institutions and violence as a method of political struggle. Forza Nuova cannot be treated as an out-of-time veteran; zero tolerance is needed for violence, intimidation, xenophobic and racist messages. For this reason we must apply those laws that are there to remind us that Italy is based on anti-fascism, an idea of coexistence and tolerance that has allowed to soothe the wounds of the whole country and also of South Tyrol. For all these reasons, I announce the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomous Groups' motions for the dissolution of Forza Nuova. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u122	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to make a brief premise before entering into the substance of the content of the centre-left motion. We must keep separate the two floors on which we are moving today. I heard both yesterday, on the occasion of the information of Minister Lamorgese, and in recent days, about fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression of thought. I want to clear the field of any kind of misunderstanding: on the one hand, there are fundamental freedoms, which are protected by our Constitution; on the other hand, the behaviors and acts of 9 October, which are to be classified, for the ways in which they have been carried forward, as a clear expression of neo-fascist squadrism. I repeat: neo-fascist squadrism. The latter must not only be the subject of the attention of the judiciary, which will ensure - as it is already doing - any criminal liability, but must be condemned without hesitation, first and foremost, by us, that we are all representatives of the State here. We would therefore have expected the transversal support of all political forces, including those of the centre-right, who have instead tabled a motion to condemn, in a completely general way, every subversive movement of the democratic order. It is good that condemnation involves all parties or movements that conflict with the democratic values of our order, but we have the tools to expel from the constitutional perimeter a movement that is certainly neo-fascist inspiring. Preliminaryly, just look at who represents this movement: the leaders of Forza Nuova at national level, Fiore and Morsello, have been condemned in the past for subversive association and armed band; Giuliano Castellino himself, the Roman representative of this movement, as we know, has already been condemned for an aggression against two journalists and had already been reached by a measure of Daspo. Even if we do not want to consider individual cases, we cannot remain silent in the face of methods of violence, brutality, hatred and terror that are constantly used by this movement. These facts have reminded us of dark and dramatic moments that we have experienced during the fascist twenty years. The squadrista mode that was used then for the devastation and violence perpetrated in the Houses of the people, in the offices of the press and in the trade unions - just to give some examples - was reproposed on October 9th. The choice to strike the headquarters of the CGIL is not accidental: it is an attack on work, which is the founding value of our Republic, and therefore it is an attack on the same democracy. The intimidating and brutal sentences that have been pronounced against President Landini are only confirmation of this. As if that were not enough, from what has been learned from the newspapers, the leaders of Forza Nuova, through their social channels, have shown that they are not in any way willing to put an end to such episodes of violence, which, on the contrary, will be destined to repeat, if we do not intervene, in the coming weeks. It is clear then that it is not an isolated episode, but a stable and organized way of proceeding, just as the attack on the CGIL was premeditated in its Roman headquarters. Faced with this, it is quite legitimate to ask whether the dissolution of a political movement, although extremist, should pass from Parliament and the Government. We at Italia Viva-PSI believe that yes and in this we find no act of lightness. What we are asking today is for the Government to prepare, with the instruments it considers appropriate and provided for by law, the dissolution of a political force which clearly runs counter to what is enshrined in our Constitution. It would obviously be an invasive intervention, we are well aware of it: to dissolve a political movement, even the most undemocratic, is always a sort of trauma to democracy; it is even more so if such an act is the result of a government measure. Therefore, it becomes indispensable to recall the constitutional dictation: in this comes to our rescue in particular the XII final provision, which clearly provides for the prohibition of reorganization in any form of the dissolved National Fascist Party. The importance of such a precept can be seen from the fact that the one provided for in the 12th provision is the only ideological limit as regards the establishment of a political movement within an open democracy project. (17.13) (Following SBROLLINI). This is an exceptional rule, which arises from the need to allow neo-fascist forces, which include among their objectives specific anti-democratic purposes of that historical experience and which make use of the method of fascist violence, to be dissolved. We know that the so-called Scelba law provides two ways of winding up: one follows the judicial process, through a judgment of the judiciary, and the other follows the decision of the Government, through the adoption of a decree-law, in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. We know that the judiciary is certainly a longer path, but here we are faced with a real attack on the Constitution, which must be foiled immediately. This is also clearly a political decision. In this sense, the instrument of the decree-law does not allow uncertainty on the point. The gravity of the events of 9 October, however, draws our attention. Of course, the judiciary is taking the first steps to ascertain the criminal responsibilities of individual authors, through the adoption of specific measures, but the time to arrive at a judgment will obviously be longer. On the contrary, the black matrix of the October attacks requires rapid and punctual action. For this reason, we ask the Government, with the motion under consideration, to evaluate the instruments it has in order to proceed immediately to the dissolution of the New Force, as well as of any political movement that conflicts with the inspiring principles of a democratic state. We realize that in order to support this direction it is essential to fully embrace the values of our Constitution and, at the same time, to repudiate all those forces and political movements that wink at fascisms. This is difficult to imagine for certain political forces that are currently sitting in this House, but that until a few years ago were perhaps also sitting in restaurants, portraits in photos, with important summits of CasaPound. In any case, let us leave these disputes alone and move forward in a very precise direction, which is to defend democracy and the principles of the Constitution. Of course, it is important that there is a motion such as that of the centre-right, that takes a step forward in the direction of repudiating any form of subversive movement of the democratic order, but that is not enough. Precisely for this reason, I urge those political forces to strongly condemn the events of 9 October (because this is what we are discussing today), asking with us for the dissolution of Forza Nuova and thus following the constitutional dictation. I hope that this invitation will not remain in vain and undesired. We still believe in it and will work to ensure that in this Parliament too, unfortunately not today, we can start a different phase, with an approach to the positions which today appear to be all too ideological. The Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. therefore announces its vote in favour. to the motion of the center-left. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u125	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to express my surprise, bitterness and also dismay in observing the half-desert House. To read left-wing newspapers and listen to television broadcasts, it seemed that our democracy was about to fall under the blows of the fascist and fascist emergency; then, when we discuss these problems, on your own initiative, we are there and you are absent, I stress that. [[Applause]] The second reason for surprise and bitterness comes from the fact that this discussion on the facts of Rome, but also of Trieste and other squares of Italy, derives from a wrong management of the pandemic emergency. These problems were and could be avoided with some common sense and pragmatism, as we have suggested countless times even with official acts and motions. Acting as has been done throughout Europe and the rest of the world, where this obligation does not exist, we could have held together the rights of everyone, with safety at work, the vaccination plan and social cohesion. It would have been enough to do what is done in Germany, Greece and other countries of Europe to avoid these clashes. Around the green pass, instead, it was intended to create an ideological war, in which everyone (especially of you of the majority) has positioned himself to make the harder face of his colleague, thus creating the wall against the wall with the good and the bad, the vaccinated and the non, the north curve and the south curve. The consequence was unfortunately the protests in the streets, with the results that we have also known, because those people were simply trying to assert their own reasons, right or wrong. We have discussed and amended the motions and I believe that the government will take them or will not oppose them. What is clear and what we said from the outset is that Parliament cannot dissolve any political force. That must be clear and we repeat it once again. [[Applause]] This is a task for the Government or the judiciary. The idea that someone could erase the political opponent by parliamentary means, yes, betrays a Leninist and Jacobine conception of politics [[Applause]] : It is the idea that, with a motion voted by a simple majority, we can delete from the political scene those who do not think like us. This - I want to say it as clearly and clearly as possible - has nothing to do with the judgment that we give on what happened in Rome and on Forza Nuova and other movements similar to it. If the judiciary or government has enough evidence to shut down that association, do so now. The question is another: why didn't you do it before, since they were so dangerous? Why did you allow these people to go to the square, grab the crowd, and lead the assault at the CGIL headquarters? [[Applause]] I'd like to be even clearer if I have to. As far as I am concerned - but I know that I am also speaking on behalf of my colleagues in the Group - as part of the political right since I was in high school, I have always felt that these extremist formations, groups and groups were and still are, in many respects, our most dangerous enemy. I have and have always fought the idea of a dotted and caricatured right that exhibits fascism for absolute lack of ideas and proposals. [[Applause]] We're something else. Is that clear enough, or do we have to say it a hundred more times? Having said that, however, I would like to be equally clear in saying that we do not accept that the licenses of democracy are issued by the Italian left, because it really does not have any title, it cannot give them and it cannot take them away, because I could make a very long list of historical situations, not of the 1930s or 1940s, but after the end of the war, in which the Communist Party and the political left or the radical left have constantly stood up against national, European and Atlantic interests. [[Applause]] They have always done so, and now they would like to explain to us what protection of national interest is, after defending the tanks of Hungary, Prague and Afghanistan and having used words of great ambiguity during the years of terrorism. All this, of course, we do not forget. Today is October 20, 2021: but does the Senate of the Italian Republic really think that this is the topic we need to discuss? Do we really still have to blame our past? Has it really served nothing to do with what a great leftist representative, Mr Violante, President of the House, has said when he has once and for all invited Italians to national pacification? [[Applause]] We still have to talk about this and do you know why it happens? Fascism is an electoral emergency, not a historical one, luckily, but it is quite different. It is the attempt to turn the political opponent into an enemy that, as such, must be shot down by any means possible, because it must no longer exist. All the pages we have written together are then deleted to try to overcome the crawling civil war, the years of lead and the rivalry even armed between the factions. We in the Brothers of Italy Group, in this Parliament, are the only opposition force: by opposing, ladies and gentlemen, we are as important for democracy as you who make the majority. By opposing in this Senate, let us ensure that Parliament remains so, because a parliament without opposition is another thing: it is 1,000 people who press a button on order of someone else and that we do not want it to be Parliament. Maybe someone likes it, but we definitely don't. We reject the attempts to assimilate Forza Nuova, other movements, groups and groups that you mentioned and various extremisms to the political project that Giorgia Meloni wanted about eight years ago. We have always believed that opposition is a choice, in this case of coherence and responsibility, but not an obligation or a destiny. We were born to become and be the Right of Government and those who govern look to the future, not the past. This has always been clear to us, as it really is true that throughout Italy and not only in this House there are hundreds of directors, mayors, councillors and governors who work well, are prepared and competent and serve their communities with honor and responsibility, respecting the laws and the Constitution and being as good as those of the Left, but often even more. [[Applause]] This is what annoys me, because we want to compare on the basis of ideas and proposals, but you would like a Right closed in the stereotypes you created! This Right that we represent is perfectly contemporary, but try to delete it, replacing it in newspapers and televisions with one that does not exist and, since it does not exist, you search desperately, rummaging through the garbage and looking from the hole of the lock. [[Applause]] Mr President, we repeat once again in the Senate House that we believe all of you are not enemies, but opponents, because the hate season is finally behind us and must never come back. However, I wonder whether this applies to you too, because this is the discrimination between those who are truly democratic and those who are only in words. We want to deal with Italy, not with the problems of fascism and communism, which fortunately no longer exist; we want to deal with the future of Italy, with a parliamentary democracy to which we belong not by chance, not by your concession, but by our will, supported by millions of voters. Mr President, I do not know whether we will find a trace in the newspapers tomorrow of what I said; probably not, but in the end it does not matter. What really matters is that this is what we are and that we think and it is true for today, but especially for tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u128	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, before sitting in the benches of this Parliament, I was in class, teaching Italian and history in high school. When I happened to take a third class, so at the beginning of a three-year period, it was not uncommon for students to ask me why it was necessary to study history, often seen only as a succession of dates, perhaps difficult to memorize. Instead, I tried to tell them the importance and value of history to know who we are and where we come from; in order to really understand the present, our time, the choices that are made and the world that surrounds us; in order to be able to build a future in freedom - because then it is always a choice of freedom - maybe trying not to make the mistakes of the past, learning something; or to be able, with the backpack full of experiences that could be studied, to find the right instrument and experience to apply to a particular situation to read and understand it. Those ugly pictures of October 9 were live, but they told us a chronicle that in a short time would turn into history and evoke a historical message and a bad past. Faced with those images, I wondered how many of my students today were still able to recognize in them something that they might have studied at school and learned from textbooks. I address my colleague, Mr Ciriani, who used to invite us to make a distinction between the squares: that assault has nothing to do with those who want to manifest peacefully, because it aimed at a symbolic place, the union, which is the home of workers' freedom. It was a bad and strong signal that those who wanted to choose that as a symbolic place to go to manifest their anger, used riding the protest and fear of those who might have been in the square to manifest peacefully and found themselves then pushed by who instead, well organized, had another design in the head. A design that has an unequivocal name: it was a fascist action, which used fascist tools. In that design there is an attempt to subvert our constitutional order. In the face of all this we proceed through what history has taught us, neither more, nor less, without trying to distinguish. We should all agree on this, because we know that our Constitution, which we all defend here and which should be the polar star of all of us who have a strong and important role as elected, is clear: we cannot rebuild the fascist party. On the basis of this Parliament had only one possibility: in the face of such serious facts it had to come together and write together a text to tell the Government that the events that have taken place are profoundly violent and serious because they damage our constitutional order, because moves and actions have been made that have a strong and violent meaning and the Constitution clearly says that this cannot exist and offers the Government, through the instruments envisaged, the possibility of intervening. On this I would have expected everyone's agreement to be there, because when it is said that we simply want the constitutional dictation to be implemented, and so we simply want to defend our Constitution, let us not say that we are angry with the right-wing parties. We should get some clarity and have some intellectual honesty between us. A liberal right, for those who believe like us in democracy, is useful and healthy to make democracy itself work. [[Applause]] The motion that we have tabled, clear, simple and linear, only asks the Government to use the instruments that give it the Constitution and a law of the State to dissolve a party that is fascist and declares itself fascist, as we have heard today from the beautiful illustrations made by colleagues. With regard to this, Mr Ciriani, you should not have felt involved, but you should be involved in making this path with us because I am sure that the Constitution defends it as much as you do. Then why continue to tell a story that is not what we have written with the clear words of our motion? The fundamental rules of our common life should be clear and unambiguous; antifascism is a matrix that distinguishes us all; the fact that we want to make a distinction, as happened in today's narration, has nothing to do with our parliamentary debate. Eleven days after the events, we are here to ask for something that is sacrosanct and that should be demanded by everyone, which is not, I repeat, the dissolution by the Parliament of a party. We'd never dream of asking. We are asking, and this is a force of Parliament's own, to ensure that the Constitution is respected. So where's the news? Maybe someone doesn't want to defend the Constitution? Perhaps someone does not see in the gestures of October 9 an attack on our democratic life, an attack on those who are the symbols of our common life, an attack on the agreement that should be in the sharing of a valuable plan that should put our polar star first, which is the anti-fascist constitution born for those reasons? I'm perplexed. First, Mr Ciriani spoke of bitterness in dealing with this debate. On the other hand, I am perplexed; I have a fundamental perplexity, because I fear that there has been some sort of exploitation, rather than what should have been the right spirit of collective sharing and the defence of a common memory, precisely because we all sit among the benches of this Parliament. We have many opportunities to celebrate the memory of what we have been and to call it by the right name, by the correct name, because, when you then name things, those things exist. I regret that, in recent days, I have not seen the spontaneous speed that was to be born in all the democratic forces in this Parliament, in condemning those gestures and declaring them fascists, as if that word had difficulty getting out. On the other hand, I think that we should all agree here that we should give the government a strong push from Parliament to go in that direction, to tell the government to use the instruments in its hands. There should be no distinctions from this: we are all on the same side. We're all on the same side for another reason. While in this case the path is clear and it is, the one dictated by the Constitution, to counter all the other forms of violence that have been denounced here (denunciations that absolutely see us in agreement) there is another instrument: the penal code. We absolutely agree on the use of the penal code when it is necessary. There are crimes that are registered in it, for example in Article 270; that's fine, but it's another story. We are pleased to have found this great alliance between the forces of the center-left, who have built this motion together; a great alliance in defence of our Constitution, in defense of anti-fascist values and in defense of a freedom that is the patrimony of all, no one excluded. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u131	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the previous speaker has said a lot of things, and I would like to say a few more, proposing some reflections. The first is that we are not proposing anything ideological, but we are proposing to apply the Constitution. Colleagues and colleagues, it has already been said, but I want to reiterate that I never thought - I say this with great sincerity - that the Resistance, the Constitution and the Republic (because it is a historical process that gave birth to the Constitution) were a thing of the left. I'm not from the left, but I'm from the Italian people. Many components have collaborated on this since the beginning. It was the great masterpiece of the Fathers of the Constitution, who ideologically were on opposite positions, with very heavy clashes; however, in the name of precisely the experience of the Resistance and the need to get out of the Fascist Twenty-Years, they built the house of all, this, where you are sitting and where we are sitting. Everyone's house. So it is not a party initiative to ask for the application of the Constitution. Second point: that the squadrista attack on the CGIL has a clear fascist imprint and matrix is indisputable, as can be seen even in the films, with the leaders of the New Force who led the rebellion, the siege and the destruction of works of art and communication tools. I am not saying that we are in the 1920s, but we must be careful: everything that goes in that direction for me - and I say this as a sincere democrat - is a problem that I do not want and do not intend to underestimate. I would consider it very serious to do so. It does not count 0.4 percent; this is the reflection I want to make. It is said that it is something far from reality, but we must be careful: we are in a society in which the social crushing, the problems, the conflicts, the grudges that we are experiencing are putting a strain on the community, which is a fundamental value, and the very effectiveness of democracy. Is that true or not? Colleagues and colleagues, there are scholars who have been reflecting on this for years in Italy, Europe and throughout the Western world. Faced with this situation in which there is an attack on science, in which individual freedom is opposed to the community, in which the institution is regarded as an enemy in principle, I say to my colleague Binetti - I do not see her, so I will tell her in person - that I do not think at all that the 10,000 people present in the square were of Forza Nuova and I do not think that all those people are not even my opponents. I think we must all work without ambiguous messages, without riding the wave, helping to understand the effort that is essential to ensure the security of the community and economic recovery. A colleague of Forza Italia today correctly told Draghi that it is clear that this line of seriousness allows us to resume and build a future for our country. That's right. I wonder, then, if we can really accept and underestimate the fact that a force that is declaredly fascist, claiming to be fascist, a force that is involved in a number of criminal proceedings in relation to its acts of violence exploits the square? Isn't that your problem, too? It is a problem for all of us because, if your ideas are different from mine, I recognise it and accept it as a matter of democracy, but together we should say that these exploitations are dangerous and unacceptable. I don't understand the reluctance, I don't understand why it's hard to say that Forza Nuova is a fascist force, I don't understand why, since you are far from that force. Finally - many things have been said - I too want to share a personal memory. I've always been against violence. When I was in student assemblies, I was beating - and I also slapped - because I did not accept that in a student assembly someone could not speak just because he felt differently from me or others. From this point of view I have no doubt: there is the penal code. My solidarity goes to all the people, men and women, who are violently threatened by anyone or by any movement. Is that clear? Attention, however: I express my full solidarity with Senator Segre and I would also like to say that I was on the side where Guido Rossa, a worker communist murdered by the red brigades, was, for example. [[Applause]] I don't give anyone licenses, but mine won't drop it! Let us make an effort to summarize, colleagues, it is not useful to underestimate events of this kind; it is a signal of constitutional commitment that we ask the Government and I am convinced that it is useful for the country, not because we will solve the problem, but because we give an indication: let's say that that stuff there in this country cannot exist. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u134	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, I would like to try to be even clearer than we were during the negotiations - and I must say thank you to the Government - that we have done on our motions to make our approaches of position compatible. To take up the last words of my colleague Errani, as I did before with my colleague Gallone, it's right: we don't want this stuff here, but we don't want that stuff there either. [[Applause]] , because violence, friends - this is a fact that we all have to keep in mind - is this stuff here, that is the neo-fascist sfascist attack of October 9, and no one has ever had any doubt or reluctance to recognize it as such, as far as we are concerned. It's the attack - let us remember - even to an emergency room where people were treated; it's an absolutely eversive and violent attitude in a square in the city of Rome, it's this stuff here, friends, but it's also that stuff there: it's the squares of Milan, the squares of Trieste like the squares of Bologna. [[Applause]] That stuff. I must emphasize the discrimen, the difference with your positional approach, which needs key words: fascism, antifascism, the dissolution of the New Force, to which you have legitimately said in these days that you cannot give up. Yours is a particular approach, of synthesis, linked to 9 October; ours is a general approach, linked to every form of violence, intolerance, lack of inclusiveness, totalitarianism however configured. [[Applause]] I have listened very carefully and with deep respect, and I must say that there has also been much respect in our way of confronting us these days. Let us not point out with my finger; I have found enough mortifying some indications with your finger: "You must". But what do we have to do? We do not accept lessons of democracy from anyone, friends, nor do we allow ourselves to give them to you. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, they are more politically motivated than technically motivated. Possibly, don't even give us lessons in constitutional law, otherwise we have to give you courtesy. [[Applause]] These are political approaches. This was said by a great writer who certainly is not in the pantheon of the center-right, even if we admire him very much. He was probably the one who wouldn't want to be in our pantheon. I'm talking about Umberto Eco. Do you remember Umberto Eco's eternal fascism? Fascism with the timer, antifascism with the timer, that came out whenever there was a need to animate the square, possibly, normally, in the occasion of electoral competitions. Friends, it's legitimate, but don't give us moral lessons or even style lessons, because you're not able to do that on these premises. [[Applause]] We ask you to give meaning to our confrontation and to our debate, recognizing that a symbolic evocation like the squadrista assault on the union, as my colleague Errani rightly recalled, is a symbolically obscene thing. Isn't it less symbolically obscene when the Black Blocs, the anarcho-insurrectionalists, the no-TAVs, the social centers storm into the shop windows and steal their products? [[Applause]] Because for them too it is a very unevocative suggestion! Or maybe when car owners find their car destroyed, which they may have paid by making sacrifices on a personal and family basis; destroyed because someone is asserting a principle. What do we want to call this principle: fascist, antifascist, black fascist, red fascist, yellow fascist green? It's violence! Period! [[Applause. Comments]] Of course, even the coins in front of the Raphaël hotel were violence. You're right, Stefania. If I may afford a small personal notation, given that there was talk of Bologna, the assault on a political party is also a strongly evocative violence. The fact that the headquarters of Forza Italia in Bologna was destroyed two days before the inauguration, with the windows shattered by the stones, is equally strongly evocative. [[Applause]] I didn't see any motions, though. I don't know if they were fascists or anti-fascists, if the 12th provision, the Scelba law, the Mancino law or Article 210 of the penal code applied. I didn't see all this solidarity, friends, but I probably got distracted. [[Applause]] I don't want to give lessons, though. I want to affirm a principle of common sense and objectivity with respect to the line that has passed today from our confrontation, to the net of the desire, sometimes irrepressible, to give each other lessons, which, I repeat, is quite out of context. With regard to the previous speakers, I am honored to chair this Parliamentary Group, because their speeches have been extraordinary and all I do is to sum up the remarks made, precisely by the previous Members, for whom I thank them. What has emerged, as my colleague Mr Cangini said together with my colleague Mr Mallegni, is that Italy is certainly a mature democracy, an evolved democracy. Italy is a free country and has developed since 1943. Because here we're still talking about 1919 and 1943, when you were riding around in a horse carriage. [[Applause]] But today we have Internet, YouTube, Instagram and Tik Tok. What is the point of political parties when, as Mr Cangini rightly recalled, politics, and not always good politics, is done in those places and in those virtual squares? Friends, Italy has developed many, strong and powerful antibodies to counter all this. It's pretty sad and it tastes like a stand of the rulers. A bit like the famous questions that Marzullo asks at midnight and a half: are you anti-fascist? If I'm anti-fascist and you disagree with me, are you automatically fascist? No, friends, no. I think it's different from you, and I simply don't accept to be labeled in a certain way, because freedom means not giving and not having labels. And if you don't want to receive labels, you don't have to give them, colleagues. [[Applause]] Forgive me, but I have seen too many fingers, especially in the last interventions, directed towards us. I don't think there are any teachers and disciples of freedom in here. We are the most representative body. Within the constitutional structure we are the closest to the people, and therefore we are those who have a greater responsibility within them. It has been said, in passing: we cannot implement the dissolution of a political party, suggesting the dissolution of a political party, by the Government, without a sentence of the judiciary, as I heard yesterday. But yes, let's make a decree-law! Next time, if there is something else we don't like (because, friends, we live from precedents), we ask again for its dissolution. [[Applause]] It is the syndrome of the ten little Indians: let's see who ends first. That's not how it works, friends. The rules of common living are made of weights and counterweights. It is very true that a political party can be dissolved under the twelfth transitional and final provision of the Constitution, which, moreover - you think - worried another, which was not part of our pantheon, Palmiro Togliatti, who claimed that it could have been too authoritarian and convinced people like Nenni, Dossetti and Moro to soften it. We believe that all this can lead to paradoxical effects. We cannot talk about the dissolution of a political party without thinking that this could produce a vague effect of clandestineness, weak minds or even weaker thoughts, which may turn the bad masters into martyrs-heroes. I apologise for taking longer than expected, but it is a matter that we deeply care about and on which we would like to see the utmost clarity. I must say that the Government and the other part of the House have helped us to treat him in a very civil way. Freedom belongs to everyone. Violence has no color. The most terrible acts were, unfortunately, carried out with a stretched hand, but also with a raised fist. [[Applause]] So, colleagues, let's avoid the violence that's configured anyway. This is our mission. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u137	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, after the brilliant speeches by both Mr Ciriani and Mrs Anna Maria Bernini, I will not make political considerations on behalf of the League, because I would not be able to do it as well as my colleagues. I explain only the reason why the League will not vote in favour of the motions presented by the PD, the Movimento 5 Stars and the Mixed-LEU-Eco Group and others, which were then united in a single device, simply because, although we share and are in favour of the spirit contained in the twelfth transitional and final provision of the Constitution, which prohibits the reconstitution, in any form, of the dissolved fascist party, while sharing the spirit of the Scelba law of 1952, we do not think it fair and correct that Parliament - and in this case a parliamentary majority - promotes, moreover, by an act of direction to the Government, the dissolution of a movement or political association without a prior judicial investigation, without a judgment that would constitute the crime of reconstitution of the fascist party. [[Applause]] That is why we do not vote in favour of your motion. The Supreme Court has, in fact, specified that the crime of apology for fascism and the crime of fascist demonstrations are not sufficient, but we must configure that crime. If there is no judgment, Parliament has no right to put political pressure on the government. That must be clear. [[Applause]] Instead, we will vote in favour of our motion, tabled by the centre-right, because the Government is committed to condemning any reality that wants to subvert the constitutional order. [[Applause]] Any reality, even the anarchists who went to destroy the works of the High Speed, or prevented the works from being carried out. [[Applause]] All those groups, as my colleague, Mrs Bernini, said, who broke down the windows - I remember - in Corso Buenos Aires, burning the cars as well. [[Applause]] All those who assaulted the League's headquarters for years have been unpunished. They got unpunished! [[Applause]] They even threw bombs in our homes, and nobody did anything. [[Applause.]] [[Comments]] Just as the "fascists of antifascism" as Pasolini called them must also be condemned. [[Applause]] We shall vote in favour of our motion, because we, unlike you, ask that following the events of 9 October the Government follow up on investigations and judgments, which the judiciary will have to do, verifying the violent acts that have been committed. We do not underestimate what has happened in the streets by these warriors and these criminals; absolutely woe to underestimate him (he did well to remember Senator Errani), but also this Parliament should be careful not to underestimate the thousands of people who have civilly descended into the squares to express their legitimate opinion [[Applause]] We will always defend the right to manifest. Then everyone thinks as they please, but first of all the right to manifest. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u140	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating acts aimed at taking measures to break up the New Force and all political movements of clear neo-fascist inspiration, because we believe that this form of extremism is today a serious attack on the social cohesion of our democratic organisation. To those who point out that Forza Nuova and other political organizations of the extreme right (I think of CasaPound) are not born today, we respond that this is true, but we cannot deny that the line of tolerance, inclusion and containment adopted so far is no longer practicable, in the light of recent events. I have read the motions presented by the right-wing political forces, which call for an equalization between the neo-fascist forms of violence and the events of the G8, dating back to twenty years ago and even to Islamic radicalism. I would like to remind my colleagues that our Constitution is anti-fascist and provides for the prohibition of the reconstitution of the dissolved fascist party: that is what we are talking about. Moreover, although Islamic extremism is certainly a critical issue to be addressed, it is inherent in the religious sphere and not in the political sphere we are discussing today. Anyone who observes with a minimum of attention or intellectual honesty the socio-political reality, must recognize the continuous growth of neo-fascist propaganda and intolerance, of ostentation of language, symbols and iconographies that make unequivocal reference to the twenty years. To abstract apology, which has been observed for years, is added an incremental use of violence as a method of political struggle, and this - as we know - is a clear signal of a potential reorganization of the dissolved National Fascist Party. [[Applause]] The social malaise is increasingly exploited by these formations, which propose solutions and methods of squadrista protest incompatible with republican and democratic values, values protected by our forces of order, to which I wish to express a heartfelt thanks and all the solidarity of the Movimento 5 Stars [[Applause]] for their commitment to ridding off the most violent drifts of these criminals. Some politicians have suggested - we heard it before - to broaden the speech to ban all forms of violent extremism: LaPalissian and agreeable. However, this is a proposal that does not seem sincere; it seems rather a desperate attempt to shift the focus from the issue that we have to discuss today. No one more than the Movimento 5 Stars knows how much any form of ideological extremism is contrary to the interests of citizens, but it is wrong and harmful to mix in a single reasoning the growing neo-fascist regurgitation with possible forms of violence and intolerance attributable to extreme left formations, because objectively at the moment there is no level of alarm. There is one particular reason why we are here discussing the motions for the dissolution of Forza Nuova and the other groups: at the 9 October demonstration, the well-known representatives of this political formation promoted an unacceptable aggression at the headquarters of the CGIL, which reminds in a disturbing way the assaults on the working chambers of the two-year period of 1921-1922. Let's be clear: this vile act is a direct attack on democracy [[Applause),]] and equally unacceptable was the attack on the emergency room of the Umberto I Hospital. Here I would like to express the closeness of my Group to the medical staff who have been brutally attacked. The day after these disturbing events, with President Licheri and my colleague Santillo we were at the CGIL and we brought the solidarity of our political force to Secretary Landini. I do not know how many of you have visited that place, but I can assure you that these acts of squadrism, carried out under the pretext of the health dictatorship, have been really devastating. I would like to stress that it seems hypocritical at least to hear of dictatorship from those who often even show nostalgia for the dictatorship itself, the real dictatorship, the one that led to the death and oppression of millions of people. Given the matrix that, even if it is not clear to all, is fascist [[Applause]] , the violence of these groups must be dealt with more rigorously, because it is important to dissolve them, but it is also essential to act immediately with determination, at the exact moment when these demonstrations take place. In a nutshell, zero tolerance is needed. We live months of unprecedented complexity, with a pandemic that has upset the lives of all of us and created enormous economic and social difficulties. Important decisions have been taken to combat the health emergency that has heavily affected every citizen's freedom and everyday life. Still in these days, the government has adopted new measures of extreme delicacy. All this has generated a legitimate motion of protest that has resulted in public demonstrations. In my opinion, however, it is essential to distinguish and protect those who publicly reveal their dissent peacefully, as provided for and guaranteed by our Constitutional Charter, from those who, by infiltrating these demonstrations, exploit them with the intention of subverting democratic structures. It is very serious that this malaise is exploited by political formations which do not aim to defend constitutional freedoms but, on the contrary, to spread libertical, violent and intolerant ideologies. [[Applause]] It is precisely the gravity of their actions and the particular delicacy of the historical phase that impose on us a different posture towards the political formations that recall the methods, symbols and ideas of fascism. The condemnation of all forms of intolerance and manipulation of discomfort must unite all political forces in a single democratic front, as well as the unitary ones should be the consequent actions. Unfortunately, this is not the case. From the League and the Brothers of Italy we have seen an ambiguous attitude that does not help us to defend the Republican values that are based on anti-fascistism, because our Constitution is anti-fascist. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is such a shyness in disassociating clearly because those worlds represent an electoral basin and little crystalline funding. [[Applause]] Giorgia Meloni even left the question unanswered as to what was the matrix of the events that occurred on October 9th. It is frankly a surreal and desolating exit, just like the absurd counterattacks to Fanpage's investigation, which revealed an impressive undergrowth of nostalgic fascism and even Nazism, with customs, symbols and flaunts of comrades proudly militant and camouflaged in the ranks of Brothers of Italy. [[Applause]] But there's more. Periodically from the Regions, from the Municipalities and even from a Town Hall of Rome, other members of the party of Giorgia Meloni who betray in public an irrepressible black nostalgia that represents a bad step back compared to the path of moderation that the Italian right had accomplished a few years ago. I conclude by saying that the preservation of the memory of our country's history and the sharing of the values that founded the Constitution are the pillars on which every political force must build the messages and proposals it submits to the citizens. As we go through a dramatic historical phase, we cannot allow anyone to allow themselves to foment despair in order to strengthen the germ of hatred in society. For this reason, I preannounce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars on the agenda presented. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u141	I put to the vote the agenda G1, presented by Senators Malpezzi, De Petris, Nencini, Licheri, Pharaoh and Unterberger. It's approved. I put to the vote motion No 428 (text 3), tabled by Senator Bernini, Ciriani, Romeo and other senators. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u144	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Sardinia's health is getting worse and worse. Today I want to join in the cry of pain launched by my territory, the nuorese, about the serious situation in which the health center is placed. All the departments of the hospital in San Francesco suffer from the serious shortage of personnel, in particular of doctors. These are orthopedic and surgical wards, which are no longer accepting admissions, radiology, where two other doctors are about to be transferred, gynecology and oncology recently transferred to another plan. All these departments are at risk of paralysis. This is not an early warning for the future, because even today the patients of Nuore are forced to go to other health centres, to Sassari, to Cagliari, or worse to turn to private health, resulting in huge costs for families. Territorial medicine is almost non-existent; in the countries there are no basic doctors and pediatricians. And do not think that all this is due to the pandemic and the consequent emergency reorganization of the hospitals: they are obvious critical for a long time, that we had raised before the arrival of the Covid. We are faced with the daily compromise of the right to health of citizens and the Region of Sardinia must assume responsibility for these disservices and the burden of resolving them quickly. The promises made by the Sardinian Regional Council, which have been repeatedly called upon by all the institutions in recent years - we have had meetings, conferences and demonstrations - have not materialized and the situation has deteriorated. I will conclude, Mr President, with an appeal also to Minister Speranza and Undersecretary Sileri, to intervene so that the Region of Sardinia stops and tries to resolve the situation, because the intention seems precisely to want to dismantle the hospital of Nuoro and that of Sorgono, in favour of other health centres such as Sassari and Cagliari. If that is the case, let us say it clearly, let us say clearly what the political intentions are, because in this case the people of Europe will not allow it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u147	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to address you with regard to what happened last week in the broadcast "It's not the arena," conducted by Massimo Giletti, in the episode entitled "Tuscany and poisons." Unfortunately, we have seen how in a very precise area water is poured visibly not perfectly clean. We then saw the famous keu distributed, according to the survey, in ten areas of Tuscany. Yesterday my colleague spoke, with reference to another area of the Grosseto, Scarlino, about how those lands are polluted by red chalks. Not to mention my area, the Pistoiese, where there is an incinerator and where there is also a disquisition about what happens. These political responsibilities have a precise name: the Tuscany Region - because then on television they say that it is the fault of all politicians - has always been governed by the left and political responsibility has a surname and a single name, not of all. I would also like to say to my PD colleagues that if they submit an amendment, as happened in the Regional Council in Tuscany, which provides for a derogation from the discharge of polluting liquid, it is not that when the liquid is poured out the non-polluting landfill, it is in fact done independently of the amendment, because it is not the amendment that then cleans the environment. The assumption of responsibility, therefore, has a name and surname. I really hope that my colleagues in the PD Senate will address their colleagues in the Tuscany Region to settle this situation, because citizens are very concerned about their health. They talk a lot about the environment, but it seems to me that in Tuscany they care little about the environment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u150	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, yet another attempt has been made this morning to bring down the measures of the 5 Star Movement. The Draft Budget Document approved by the Council of Ministers provides, in fact, for the extension of the superbonus to 2023 for condominiums only: a cold shower for thousands of citizens living in independent single-family housing units and waiting to benefit from these measures to improve their home. Today I very much appreciated the fact that President Draghi, in his reply, referred to the speeches of many colleagues who had scrupulously pointed out, but unfortunately he forgot to refer to the superbonus, despite the fact that practically everyone had talked about it. I did not demoralize myself: I took paper and pen and immediately wrote him a piece of paper that I handed him to the House, begging him to review this short-sighted hypothesis. I will not quote any numbers. The potential and positive effects of these measures are now more than obvious. Therefore, to intervene only on the condominiums means to significantly weaken their effectiveness. I add that you have to extend all the other building bonuses like the one on the facades: you do not consume soil, you make the buildings efficient and the payments are all tracked. How do you leave entire chains in doubt? I am talking about a measure that has always received so many fine words in this House from several colleagues from all political forces, with a unanimous will that cannot fall into the void. We are Parliament: if we all want it, the government can only adapt, and it must do so. As I said, I don't want to tease you with any number, but I take you to the real world where the following happens. This morning Vittorio, a friend of Turin's electronic engineer, sent me a message expressing all his disappointment at the news. The message was of the following tenor: so many promises, so many proclamations three days before the elections then nothing; this morning he called the director of the works and the thermotechnic to block; instead of redoing the heating with the heat pump, the photovoltaic and everything else and to coexist the house, they will put a boiler and burn gas without involving anything; a year and a half of life wasted. And thank you. His was an ironic thank you. Still, the friend Brunella of Scandiano wrote something like this: it's absurd, Sunday in meeting in Reggio Emilia you said that this was one of the valid reasons to have entered and remain in the government: defending the superbonus that with you inside would be untouchable. What happened? I conclude by quoting Francesco Serra of Bologna: there are hundreds of thousands of companies and professionals who have worked for twelve to eighteen months to make projects and estimates, to be redone every three weeks because the prices increase continuously, with the promise to be paid when opening the yard, because first obviously you cannot or you lose the facilitation on these expenses. Now most of the projects are going to skip and what are we going to do? Many people will have to pay 5,000 or 10,000 euros to professionals for projects that they will throw away because the extension has not arrived. I have seamless messages like these. We cannot become a Parliament where effective measures are blocked or weakened. In conclusion, I hope that the government will reconsider. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u153	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, there has been a great deal of talk these days about the investigation of the emergency Commissioner Covid Domenico Arcuri and I note that the numerous questions that have been tabled on various aspects of his administration have never been answered. The judiciary must do its job, it will do it and it is doing it, but Parliament cannot be ignored. At the time it was even going on for DPCM, then for decree-laws; the role of Parliament is already quite sacrificed, and the inspection role must not be forgotten. I would remind you of all the many questions I have put and which have remained unanswered, but in particular I would like to refer to question 3-01924 of 16 September 2020, the question of the famous wheelchairs, their cost, why they were bought in a certain condition and not in others; on question 4-05913, concerning the case of a child who suffered reprisals for not having participated in a celebration of the gender ideology at school, in a prestigious public institute. Then I would like to refer to the written question 4-05708, on Italy's intervention against the so-called Orban law in Hungary, on which it would be interesting to know why Italy has been deployed in a certain way; the written question 4-05603 on the issue of transgender athletes; as well as the numerous concerning the issue Aspi, the deal of the acquisition of the shares of Benetton in Aspi at a price that will make the Italians spend 8 billion more than would be possible: a nice gift for the Benettons, responsible for the management that led to the collapse of the Morandi bridge with 43 victims. There are a number of questions on this subject. I remember - for example - the 4-05316 of 20 April and, in particular, the most important the 4-05506 of 20 May 2021. The government must report to everyone through Parliament. He cannot carry out business by giving billions to those who caused the death of 43 people without even explaining why, when and if. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u154	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-369.ana.u155	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 26 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.26 p.m.
