ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. At this point, I am obliged to inform you that this is the first item on the agenda, and the second item cannot be discussed immediately by this House because the work in the 5th Commission is still to be completed. In particular, agendas are being examined on the second item on the agenda. So the 5th Commission is asking for a postponement, not too long. My proposal is to suspend work for about half an hour, obviously after hearing those who ask me to speak on the order of business or for other reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u6	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of this vacuum in the House's work to represent the following. It has been more than twenty days since, together with three other colleagues, we have asked the Presidency for recognition... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crucioli, if you want to intervene on the order of business, you can. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, if you will allow me to speak, I will explain why I am speaking on the order of business. I was just saying that we do not have the opportunity to use those articles of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which are allowed to use not only by the Mixed Group but also by its members. Since our request is perfectly consistent with the interpretation given by the Council of the Rules of Procedure and having passed more than twenty days since then, we ask you to recognize the component of the Mixed Group "Alternative There is."
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u7	Senator Crucioli, it will be my care to report to President Alberti Casellati.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u10	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I would just like to brandish once again this way of managing the work of this House, which is truly incomprehensible, by a majority which can now be called Bulgarian, in this House as well as in the other Parliament. It is absurd to stay here and put the first measure on the agenda again, where the debate took place yesterday and only six articles were voted on. We do not understand how the work is carried out in this House. Therefore, on this point I would like to draw attention to the Presidency, so that it can be more effective, as far as its prerogatives are concerned, so that the work of the House can be planned in a serious and continuous way.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u11	If there are no other speeches and if you do not want to return and then perhaps have to delay again, I will suspend the sitting until 10.25 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.37 a.m. and resumed at 10.28 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2207. The rapporteurs, Senators Conzatti and Rivolta, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Conzatti.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u13	Mr President, this report deals with the conversion of Decree-Law No 59 of 6 May 2021 on urgent measures relating to the Fund supplementary to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and other urgent investment measures. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), presented by the Draghi Government on 30 April, is, as is well known, divided into six missions: digitisation, green revolution and ecological transition, infrastructure for sustainable mobility, education and research, inclusion and cohesion, health. In full coherence with the European regulations of the Next Generation EU programme, over 30% of resources have been earmarked for investment to combat climate change and more than 20% for investment in the digital transition. Moreover, in line with the transversal strategies for the absorption of gender gaps, generational and, in this case, territorial, over 40% of the territorializable resources are allocated to the Mezzogiorno. President, it is a total of 235 billion resources, of which 191.5 derive from the recovery and resilience mechanism, 13 billion from the React-E programme for the years 2021 to 2023 and an additional 30.6 billion from the Complementary Fund, which is the subject of this measure and financed through the multiannual budgetary deviation requested by the Council of Ministers and approved by Parliament on 22 April. The Complementary Fund provides for 30 projects, of which 20 are already planned and co-financed with the PNRR, while 10 projects are completely new and financed by the Complementary Fund. In any case, all 30 projects meet the guidelines and objectives of the PNRR. The measure in conversion consists of six articles, of which Article 1 deals precisely with the National Plan for complementary investments, aimed at integrating with national resources the interventions of the PNRR for - I repeat - 30,6 billion for the years 2021 to 2026. Paragraph 2 provides for the allocation of the fund among the competent central administrations, identifying the programmes and interventions to which the resources and their annual financial profile are allocated for each of the mentioned year. In particular, the operations financed by the Supplementary Fund are broken down as follows: 1,750 million for digital services to digital citizenship, 1,780 million for interventions in favour of earthquake-stricken areas, further enhanced by an amendment and an agenda approved in the Commission; 9,760 million is allocated to the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility for the renewal of fleets, the strengthening of regional lines, the renewal of rolling stock, the Safe Roads programme, the dynamic monitoring for remote control of bridges, viaducts and tunnels, the development and maritime accessibility of ports, the electrification of docks and inland areas. These are a great many projects and some have been reinforced both by amendments approved by the Budget Committee and by agendas that will commit the Government to taking action in the next steps, starting with the Budget Act. In addition, €1.455 million is planned for the Ministry of Culture for a strategic investment plan on cultural heritage sites, buildings and natural areas. 2.387 million are needed for the Ministry of Health for programmes of prevention, protection and territorial medicine; 6,800 million for the Ministry of Economic Development for particularly innovative programmes, one of which is the Polis programme, which will involve Posteitalian and will cover 4,800 municipalities in Italy. In addition, measures for transition 4.0 will be strengthened; resources will be provided to the Ministry of Justice for the improvement of the prison situation, with particular reference to prison facilities for both adults and minors; 1.2 billion for supply chain contracts to the Ministry of Food and Forestry Agricultural Policies (MIPAAF); 500 million for research initiatives for innovative technologies and pathways in the field of health and welfare; resources to the Ministry of the Interior for integrated urban plans and 4,500 million for the measure of superbonus. The measure of the superbonus has been further extended: with regard to the autonomous public housing institutes at 30 June 2023, while for the expenses incurred by the condominiums at 31 December 2022, regardless of the progress of the work. On this point it should be stressed that the report on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan adopted on 30 March last by the Commissions meeting 5a and 14a had directed the Government to intervene to further strengthen this measure; in the same way, many of the amendments and agendas submitted by colleagues in the Budget Committee recommended to the Government to extend and extend the subjective scope of this intervention. In this regard, the article 1, paragraph 5, which binds any expenditure savings monitored on the measure of the superbonus to the extension of the period of use of the facility is to be considered very positively. The measure contains other important measures. The article 1, paragraph 6, regulates the modalities of implementation of the investments previewed from the Plan, previewing the application of procedures of simplification, acceleration and revocation of the resources for lack of respect of the cronoprogrammes and lack feeding of the data that serve to the structures of monitoring. Soon the Ministry of Economy and Finance will adopt a decree to regulate in detail the monitoring and chronoprogram of the investments. In this regard, it is useful to specify that the time programmes have already been identified by the competent administrations in the context of the preparatory work for the PNRR, but with the next decree of the Ministry of Economy and Finance will be reviewed and simplified, in line with the spirit of Article 1, which is to increase the spending capacity of public administrations and accelerate the feasibility of the works in order to achieve the objectives closely related to the obtaining of the financial contributions of the European Union (loans and grants). Article 1 (8) provides that the implementation of State aid measures shall be subject to prior authorisation by the European Commission. In addition, an amendment approved in the Commission states that administrations are required to comply fully with the principle of the absence of significant damage to environmental objectives. Article 1 (9) provides for financial cover measures. I would like to point out that the work of the Commission has been tiring (because the measure is objectively difficult to amend), but the joint effort of the Government and the Budget Committee (thanks also to all the technicians) has enabled the Commission to approve significant rules both legal and onerous in terms of covering the programming of the Development and Cohesion Fund, which will be of great impact and strengthening the Supplementary Fund itself. With reference to Article 2 concerning the Development and Cohesion Fund, and the other measures, the co-rapporteur, Senator Rivolta, will report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u14	I call the rapporteur, Senator Rivolta.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u15	Mr President, Article 2 increases the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund (FSC) for the 2021-2027 programming cycle by a total amount of 15,5 billion for the year 2022 to 2031, according to the following breakdown: 850 million for 2022, 1,000 million for 2023, 1,250 million for 2024, 2,850 million for 2025, 3,600 million for 2026, 2,280 million for 2027, 2,200 million for 2028, 600 million for 2029, 500 million for 2030 and 370 million for 2031. This refinancing is in addition to the total 50 billion already allocated by the budget law 2021 and intended exclusively to support development interventions aimed at reducing the socio-economic and territorial gaps between the different areas of the country. It follows, as confirmed by the approval in the Commission of amendment 2.1, that it clarifies the finalisation of the increase in resources to the acceleration of their use and the realisation of the investments envisaged in the PNRR, as indicated by the Government in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, in which an advance of the programming of the Development and Cohesion Fund is announced in line with the sectoral investment and reform policies foreseen in the PNRR, in accordance with a principle of complementarity and additionality of resources. In particular, according to the PNRR, the national programming of the Development and Cohesion Fund 2021-2027 will be advanced to a value of around 15.5 billion, to accelerate the capacity to use resources and realise investments. These resources, which are always highlighted in the Plan, will be reinstated in the availability of the fund, in order to guarantee full additionality. It is also recalled that the resources of the FSC, programming cycle 2021-2027, will be programmed by the Interministerial Committee for Economic Programming and Sustainable Development (CIPESS) according to the instruments and procedures established by Article 1, paragraph 178, of Law No 178 of 2020 and destined to the territories in compliance with the 80 percent allocation key to the areas of the Mezzogiorno and the remaining 20 percent to the areas of the Centre-North, referred to in the same paragraph 178. The allocations will also be made within the limits of the annual budget appropriations and the resulting disbursements will be limited to the corresponding cash availabilities. During the Commission's work, several amending proposals were approved, adding the following additional investments for a total of €700 million: €135 million in the three-year period 2022-2024 for the creation of a single national interconnection network for education, ensuring the coordination of data system platforms between schools, regional school offices and the Ministry, the homogeneity in data processing and transmission, the proper functioning of integrated digital teaching and the implementation and management of the services related to the above activities; €70 million in the three-year period 2022-2024 for the establishment of an energy pole in the Adriatic to convert oil & gas platforms and to create a marine district integrated in the field of renewable energies off the coast of Ravenna, where wind, offshore and photovoltaic floating will produce electricity in an integrated way and will simultaneously be able to generate green hydrogen through electrolysis; €300 million in total from 2021 to the year 2024 in favour of municipalities with a population of 50,000 to 250,000 inhabitants for investments aimed at urban regeneration, with a view to green transition, regeneration and sustainable urban and social inclusion. During the three-year period 2022-2024, a total of €115 million will be allocated to investments to improve air quality, as the limit values for PM10 thin dust and limit values for nitrogen dioxide, as set out in the 2015 infringement procedure, continue to be exceeded and due to the complexity of the process of achieving the objectives set out in Directive No 50 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008. 25 million euros are previewed total in the three years 2022-2024 for priority participations of adaptation and upgrade of nodes and railway connections in the South Italy; 35 million euros total in the three years 2022-2024 for the renewal of the private fleets used for the crossing of the Strait of Messina; 20 million euros total in the biennium 2023-2024 for infrastructural participations of contrast to the overcrowding prison; 15 million for the year 2021 for investments for the transition to farming methods free housing, extensive and pastures, like to the open-air breeding grass-fed and the biological one for the transition to systems without cages. These resources are allocated by the CIPESS, after agreement with the Regions, in accordance with the modalities and in compliance with the percentage of territorial division established by the budget law 2021. Article 3 amends the provision of coverage referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1065, of the budget law 2021 referring to the facilitations aimed at promoting investments for innovation and the competitiveness of enterprises, referred to in paragraphs 1051 to 1064 of the same article 1 (Transition 4.0). It is appropriate to recall that the Budget Act 2020 (Article 1, paragraphs 184 to 197, of Law No 160 of 2019) instead of extending to 2020 the so-called super-depreciation and over-depreciation in favour of enterprises - measures which essentially allowed the costs incurred for the specific category of investments to be increased for tax purposes - replaced these instruments with a tax credit for expenditure incurred as an investment in new capital goods until 31 December 2020. The 2021 budget law then identified the beneficiaries of the tax credit in companies which, from 19 November 2020 until 31 December 2022, or by 30 June 2023 - if the relevant order has been accepted and there has been a payment of at least 20% of the price by 31 December 2022 - make investments in new capital goods intended for production facilities located in the territory of the State. The amendment referred to in this Article is necessary because the aid measure in question, since it is not considered suitable by the European Commission to contribute effectively and significantly to the objective of the country's ecological transition, cannot be found financial cover in the resources of the Next generation EU, as was provided for in budget law 2021, and must therefore be provided for with the own resources of the Italian State. In particular, it should be noted that both the coverage provided for in the budget law 2021 and that laid down in this rule from the resources provided for in Article 5 provide for the only coverage in terms of net balance to be financed, since, as reported in the technical report, the impact in terms of net borrowing and borrowing is already considered in the trend forecasts of the accounts of the public administrations of the 2021 Economy and Finance Document, taking into account the worsening impact on the net indebtedness of the tax credit for investments in new capital goods (ex super depreciation) provided for in Article 1, paragraphs 1051-1065, of the budget law for 2021. Article 4 provides for financing for the crossing of Vicenza railway and for the final design of the third batch of the high-speed-high-capacity Vicenza-Padua railway route, as well as for the financing of the operations related to the Salerno-Reggio Calabria railway line. These are complementary actions to those previewed in the PNRR, as the two lots of the completion of the Vicenza-Padova tract, previewed to paragraph 1, appear in synergy with the investment of 3,6 billion euros for the Brescia-Verona and Verona-Bivio Vicenza tract, in the within of the high-speed lines in the North that connect to Europe. On the other hand, the same investment provided for in paragraph 2 on the high speed route Salerno-Reggio Calabria, accompanies the intervention provided for in the PNRR in the context of financial connections. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. RIVOLTA, rapporteur. Mr President, I turn over the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u16	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. The minority rapporteur, Senator Calandrini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u17	Mr President, the measure we are examining has been considered by the Government, since the beginning of its journey in the Senate, not worthy of a thorough examination by the Commissions. I would like to remind you that everything has happened outside the parliamentary classrooms, because only this morning for a couple of hours have we been able to get on the subject. We are certainly not satisfied with the form that has been used to reach its possible approval. In terms of content instead, Decree-Law No. 59 is rather slender, being composed of only 6 articles of the total value of 30,6 billion euros. However, it presents itself with many shortcomings which also emerge from the dossiers drawn up by the Senate Budget Service, a body which is certainly not an expression of the minority. It is strange that even the dossier accompanying the measure points out that Parliament too has not been put in a position to operate in practice. In the comments to article 1, paragraph 5, it is noted that the Parliamentary Commissions are receiving communications on the updates of the estimates concerning the superbonus; communications that are defined by the technicians who have drawn up the documents as mere information, while instead it is suggested in the text itself, which I quote, to evaluate: "the opportunity to accompany the updating of the estimates with a technical report and to foresee in this regard the expression of a parliamentary opinion". In practice, technicians also note that Parliament has been relegated to the role of spectator with respect to the decisions of the Government. The contents of Article 3 concerning additional financial provisions on Transition 4.0 are unique. The analysis notes that although the impact in terms of net needs and debt is already considered in the trend forecasts of the Document on Economics and Finance (DEF) 2021, here - again I quote - it is necessary to give feedback on the impact of each individual provision, not being considered sufficient the generic reassurance that the measure has already been included in the trend forecasts without giving separate evidence of this. It was basically played with numbers. Similar concepts are also reported in relation to Article 4, relating to the financing of high-speed railway lines, in particular the Verona-Padova line and the Salerno-Reggio Calabria line. The figures and elements underlying the quantification of the burden are missing from these interventions; therefore, even in this case, even if they are limited investments, it is still not possible to make a comprehensive assessment in this respect. The Senate technicians also note that it is not possible to verify the development of expenditure on net borrowing and borrowing balances for the years following 2024. Here too, some assessments are missing. However, it is in Article 5 that attention must be paid because what can be seen from the documentation files is that for the charges to be financed for the year 2021 there would be no coverage of 50 million euros, as Articles 1, 3 and 4 estimate charges of 6,340 billion that become 6,290 billion in the aforementioned Article 5. Where we're gonna get these 50 million missing or where we're gonna lose them, it's not gonna happen, and this someone in the government is gonna have to... Explain it to us. We understand that out of 6 billion expenditures, 50 million are less than one percent, but in times of crisis even one percent of resources can make a difference and in any case an oversight of 50 million euros denotes the attention with which the majority cures the measures with which they say they want to raise Italy. As a minority we have tabled improved amendments, some of which could find very simple coverage by abolishing cashback, billions of euros thrown away. We have proposed, for example, to help tourism and the Horeca sector (Hotellerie-Restaurant-Café) with cashback money; again, we have asked to give more resources to Rome Capital in order to better manage its institutional functions, but probably Government and majority believe that Rome should be treated as a provincial capital. Finally, for intellectual honesty it is necessary to admit that, if there is a fair measure taken by the previous Government Count II, this measure takes the name of superbonus. However, we have repeatedly pointed out in all fora how the complexity of the bureaucratic procedure, combined with the too short deadline, make the measure unworkable and unbelievable. This time too, we have asked for an extension until 2023, but here too we see that the amendments to this effect have all been rejected by the majority, risking frustrating the effects of a measure as long-awaited as unworkable, given the strict constraints linked in particular to its duration. In conclusion, Mr President, in view of the problems I have listed, there was ample scope for improving the measure, if only the government had not closed itself: this means that this House should once again measure with a very poor measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u18	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Calandrini, who preceded me, has clearly explained the reasons that Brothers of Italy do not like and that have seen us critical, not so much and not only in the content, but above all in the method, about the PNRR theme and therefore of course also about the so-called complementary "fundone." We believe that Parliament should have had a greater role than the one to which it is entrusted: it should have been able to discuss and cooperate more with the Government, which unfortunately has not happened for a long time and much less on measures of this importance. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this measure is also worth a good amount of money in the past, a measure of more than EUR 30 billion, which has arrived in the parliamentary classrooms almost tiredly, dragging majority and opposition without knowing when we should have dealt with it: until this morning we were not even certain to examine this decree. Allow me to say that this behaviour - and I address the representative of the Government and the representatives of the majority - is not respectful of the parliamentary democracy that we want to protect in every day of our activity. Having said that - and it seemed important to me to reiterate this - I take advantage of the value and significance of a general discussion to frame the subject of the PNRR and the supplementary fund. We want to do this first because only if we are able to guarantee the best conditions for the efficiency and effectiveness of the measures, we will be able to give our country prospects of serious and stable recovery. As the Brothers of Italy we have said several times, colleagues, how important it is to be able to combine in a single project the European funds, the funds of the PNRR and those of the supplementary fund, therefore the purely Italian funds, with all the investments of the sessennio 2021-2026. We must not forget, in fact, that if on the PNRR-fondone front we talk about about 235-240 billion, just as many billions of investment are normally allocated in Italy to public interventions. We should therefore be able, over the past six years, to guarantee all public investment - and I would add to private investment - that simplification which, among other things, has long been required of us, let us remember, from Europe and from all public and private operators, because on this issue there is absolute agreement between public managers, our administrators and our entrepreneurs. The request is to simplify, to put an end to an era that has seen our country characterized only by suspicion, for justiceism, for the culture of incriminating anyone who had the desire and courage to do and above all the courage, sometimes, to shorten procedures. If we want to ensure that the country system is fully effective, we need to simplify everywhere. This is the main message I intend to give on this subject. Then when we talk about the two concepts, the two solutions that represent the heart of the measures that affect this fundone, that is the superbonus of 110% on the one hand and the Transition 4.0 on the other, I think that we should have taken into account, as Senator Calandrini said, our amendments, with which we proposed, as the entire business class of the country is proposing it (I believe that quoting ANCE should be an obvious thing), to extend to 2023 the total superbonus of 110 percent. You, on the other hand, respond with a simple reference to the budget law, which - I remember for the non-employed - will arrive at the end of the year, while a company or a condominium need to organize themselves in order to be able to make interventions of this type, so the extension had to be immediate, indeed it was already late, you should have done it already before. You have therefore disregarded a non-ideological demand, not of partisan, but of common sense, which came from businesses, from users, from those who must use, for the good of the country, the superbonus 110%. Also with regard to Transition 4.0 we open an important topic, which concerns those technological companies that must lead the country towards the sustainability of its production system. We all agree that this is an interesting and important initiative. Even on this, allow me a nail. First of all, I would like to ask the Government to better understand from the Ministry of Economic Development the reasons, truly indecipherable and incomprehensible for those who do business, that the so-called Neatech Foundation would be about to change its name to the Medical Foundation. Beyond the names, this means, lords of the majority and lords of the Government, that within this path you risk to frustrate the expectations of many Italian companies in the field of startups. What I want to say is that on these issues we need absolute clarity, to give answers to our country. I would like to conclude with another fundamental aspect, namely the transfer of tax credits. Also on this Brothers of Italy he prepared a question. We must support the transferability of tax credits: it is unacceptable, gentlemen, that Eurostat wants to influence, for Transition 4.0, the transfer of tax credits, considering them as payable credits. Tax credits (110 percent or the tax credit of the transition 4.0) are not payable; they are tax credits that simply reduce, when they are used, i.e. in the five years, the state's tax revenues, against far more important tax write-offs, which develop the economy. It is therefore not acceptable for the Government to accept this classification passively. We must give impetus to the transfer of tax credits; we must give impetus to the tax currency, because it is an instrument that is proving fundamental to the promotion of innovation, of the Transition 4.0, of the superbonus. Finally, Mr President, allow me to share the concerns and concerns of the new President of Assonime, Patrizia Greco, who made it clear what I tried to say in my speech: let us not lose sight of the success of the PNRR and the fundone, so let us really implement the tax reform, for which we worked in the Sixth Joint Commissions last night too, and recapitalise the companies. We need a unified framework and more courage, so that really the money we invest in our country can guarantee us the necessary development so that we can finally get out of this difficult crisis situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u20	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u21	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as I agree with the majority report by the Senators Rivolta and Conzatti in this House, I will quickly focus on something that has remained very much in the shadows when we talk about the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is a huge investment and it is well known that it requires speed, transparency and involvement. We have rightly worked on the simplification side, but we have forgotten to work to create a more balanced relationship between state bodies. The management of the recovery fund is destined, in fact, to rewrite the relations between Government and Parliament and is destined, in turn, to revisit relations within the Government, providing for a clear centralization around the President of the Council of Ministers. It is a sort of return to the time of the pyramids, where the verticalization of power corresponds to a much wider base and therefore less involved. The marginalisation of Parliament, Mr President and the Government, has a cause linked to the reduction in the number of Members. We already know today that the Senate will have difficulty working best in this condition, unless it becomes a different House from what it is, that is, a Chamber of Control alone or a Chamber of Autonomouss. We also know that this condition is not attainable during this parliamentary term. The question that we have to ask ourselves, alongside the economic aspect and financial management of the Plan, is how the government's steering booth is set up on the recovery plan and, at the same time, on parliamentary activity and, therefore, how we can exalt the functions of proposal and control of the Chambers regarding an investment plan that has no equal in the recent history of our Republic, except to go back with memory to the Marshall plan of several years ago. My view is that the course of action must now be drawn precisely because there is a relationship of national unity in the Government of Italy. The Plan, in fact, will insist for a little less than half on this parliamentary term and for more than half on the next parliamentary term, which, presumably, will have different characteristics from this one. We will move from national unity, most likely, to two or more sides that will confront the voters who will choose who will have to sit on the benches of the government and who will have to sit among the opposition benches. More reason to fix the rules of engagement today, today that begins a path of this nature. The proposal of Italy Viva-PSI is to dedicate a parliamentary session to the discussion of the future of Italy seen on this side, that is seen from this angle, from this observatory. Already something, around us and outside of us, moves and we evaluate it in an absolutely positive way. From the G7 there is a greater attention to the geopolitical picture. Europe tries to regain a central role in a Euro-Atlantic relationship, which had been decidedly set aside. It is played in one half of the field with the willingness, on the other hand, to strongly support the challenge of China. The thesis of the historical function of democracies is supported and, therefore, Italy is also preparing to build and give itself a strategic vision, which is destined, on the one hand, to change the profile of Italy itself and, on the other, to play a role that in recent years Italy was absolutely not used to play. A year and a half after the end of the legislature and with the election of the President of the Republic in the middle, I find it unrealistic to talk about constitutional reforms. No less, if we are not talking about constitutional reforms, we must instead imagine a balanced system that better defines the relationship between legislative and executive. We call for a parliamentary sitting, therefore, which entrusts to a resolution an address, addressed in the meantime to the Senate, so that the two Institutional Affairs Committees of the House and Senate, or a special restricted Commission, with well-defined times, read the parliamentary regulations to adapt them to the reduction of the number of parliamentarians and revisit the legislative procedure, so that Parliament, with its Commissions, is not put aside by the government of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. A material constitution, Mr President, must at least correspond to a material balance between the powers of the State, as Constantine Mortati reminded us. If, however, unlike the years of the birth of the Republic and the Constitution, 1946 and 1947, the parties, who were the subjects who defined this arrangement, are no longer able to do so today, we cannot wait for the Constitutional Court to define the path: both Parliament and then start this solution. Let us not say, like too many years ago, that Parliament is presenting itself to the government and not vice versa.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u22	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called bonfire decree is well known to everyone in its substance, so I shall not go into the substance of the individual points. I would like to thank Mr Conzatti and Mr Rivolta for the work they have done in the Commission because they have worked very well. However, I would like to draw the attention of the Government because it seems to me that, on all these measures, an issue is now central. I am referring to the presumption of arriving in the parliamentary classrooms - I believe that the situation also concerns the other branch of Parliament - with de facto measures blocked. We've had meetings at all levels, all hours. In my view, in this situation, in this economic and social context, the approach must be absolutely different. Among us, Senators of Forza Italia, there is no great satisfaction for the path - not for the content - nor for the mode; we absolutely need to revise the modus operandi, because it will succeed difficult in the continuation that we can reach shared conclusions. The measure contains many points: some relate to financing operations on high-speed and high-capacity railway lines, which mainly concern the North-East and the Salerno-Reggio Calabria route; there is the refinancing of the Development and Cohesion Fund which is equally important. Let us remember, however, that they are all maneuvers in debt. This decree-law has the scope of a pre-Covid financial maneuver; we are in debt to the country - and we have no alternative - but, like all debts, sooner or later the bill will arrive. Istat yesterday told us that in Italy there are 5.6 million Italians in absolute poverty: attention, because the social bomb eventually explodes. We have to make reforms, make them quick and well. The Government, with the authoritative presidency of President Draghi, has the political strength to do so; let us proceed quickly because patience has absolutely reached a limit of guard. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u24	Senator Faggi renounces to intervene in general discussion. She's enlisted to speak Senator Gaudiano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u25	Mr President, Senators, Decree-Law No 59 of 6 May 2021 sets out urgent measures relating to the PNRR supplementary fund and other urgent investment measures; the objective is to complement the National Recovery and Resilience Plan with additional national resources of more than EUR 30 million. The text of the rule provides for a number of actions, including funding for the development of sustainable mobility and high-speed rail transport. These are accompanied by new equipment for the MIC intended for the development of tourism and the enhancement of the artistic, cultural and naturalistic heritage. Added to these measures is an increase in the budget of the Development and Cohesion Fund for the 2021-2027 programming period, amounting to EUR 15.5 billion. This is to bridge the differences in development between the territories that slow down growth and hinder progress, especially in Southern Italy. The recovery of Italy cannot ignore the full cultural and environmental enhancement of the beauties that characterize all our territories. Ensuring a better public use of cultural heritage means ensuring ease in accessing and reaching archaeological sites, places of artistic and landscape interest. In this regard I recall that the decree-law so-called fundone intervenes authorizing an expense for beyond 9 billion euros in order to realize the high speed Salerno-Reggio Calabria, with the aim to exceed the existing infrastructural limits. The province of Salerno, for example, which I have the honour to represent, is rich in culture and overflows with archaeological treasures and landscape and artistic goods; wonderful places, which, however, serve a serious insufficiency of the networks of connection, which ends up stifling its tourist potential and opportunities for development. The high speed, while representing an indispensable work, is unfortunately not resolving the problems of connection that afflict these territories rich in history, beauty and food and wine products of excellence. The subject is very dear to me and for this reason I have tabled an amendment and an agenda, so that the Government will consider the possibility of adding to the new high speed a surface metro that can connect the archaeological sites of the municipalities of the hinterland. Think, for example, of the Vallo di Diano or the wonderful places of the Carthusian Carthusian of Padula and the caves of Pertosa, which serve the total absence of railway connections and which are served only by road transport. The municipalities of Pertosa and Padula will be crossed by the future high-speed line, but this does not include any intermediate stop at these sites. For this reason, I am convinced that it would be desirable for a new line to be set up alongside the high-speed tracks. Connecting the inland areas would solve the serious railway transport deficits that weigh on these places. Moreover, I have proposed to realize a railway station at the airport of Salerno-Costa d'Amalfi, where there are planned works of ulterior extension of the track, just in order to encourage the tourist connections not only in Campania, but also for the neighboring Regions like Calabria and Basilicata. The airport, although close to the railway line that connects, for example, the ancient city of Paestum and the archaeological site of Elea-Velia, is not equipped with a station that allows travelers access to the already existing and active railway line. I believe that it is essential to remedy this; the advantages would be incalculable at this point. The railway station near the airport of Salerno-Costa d'Amalfi, in fact, would allow tourists to easily access the Cilento coast and the Amalfi coast, as well as the internal areas and the port of Salerno, with costs and impact reduced to the minimum and with benefits that would produce positive effects well beyond the province, going to favor the connections in much of the South Italy. This measure offers us the opportunity to fill some of the negative differences that our country is serving in terms of infrastructure. Mother nature with these territories was very generous and maternal; the rest made history. We are left with the moral and political responsibility to enhance and make our wealth known to the widest possible public. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u26	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u27	Dear President, Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are about to approve the Fund complementary to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and other urgent investment measures. This measure is aimed at integrating with national resources the interventions of the PNRR itself; the additional resources are equal to 30.6 billion for the years 2021 to 2026, which are to be added to the 204.5 billion previewed from the PNRR, to which Italy has been able to access thanks to the Recovery and residence facility and React-EU programs. The total sum of the two interventions is around 235 billion. These resources are necessary for the revival of the national economy, which is among the most affected by the economic crisis linked to the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19. It is clear that we must be aware of what kind of development model we want for our country. It is appropriate to have clear what our objectives for social and economic development are, as the vision will have repercussions for the years to come. We will be the decision-makers of the future of the next generations and we cannot afford to make mistakes, not anymore. We cannot afford to have a shortsighted vision; we cannot allow ourselves to lag behind other European countries. Surely one of the things we need to do is an analysis of what has made us vulnerable during this pandemic period, which has highlighted all the criticalities of past political choices. The urgency to protect our health from new and unknown evils has reaffirmed the importance of scientific research and the use of technology - which has become fundamental in the last year for the performance of work activities, for study and to connect people - and the need and urgency to restore to nature its dignity, rethinking also the consumption of soil and pollution, and to restore equal dignity to all territories, but also to create new infrastructures to connect the centres with marginal areas. In short, the social and economic well-being of citizens must be reconstructed. This is the role of politics, which must return to educating and proposing itself as a formative tool of lifestyles and for this to happen must approach people, to the everyday life of things and must not lose sight of reality in its concreteness. This is why the financing of the Recovery and Resilience Plan must also be implemented and implemented through the protagonism of the Regions, Provinces and Municipalities. Italy, precisely because of its beauty, is one of the most envied countries in the world, because it encloses within itself everything a State can desire: with its islands it is surrounded by the sea, it has a mountain extension (the Alps and the Apennines) and the Po Valley. These are different territories, but they must find the appropriate answers precisely because of the specificities that distinguish them. Among the themes addressed both in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and in the Supplementary Fund are the following: linking the territories, investing in new infrastructures, in the creation and strengthening of services in the health and welfare field; focusing on a green economy, starting precisely from energy saving and sustainable mobility with the implementation and renewal of the fleets of buses, with more ecological means; strengthening the regional railways, connecting with ports and airports; intervening on the modernization of water distribution networks, the safety and the implementation of a dynamic monitoring system for remote control of bridges, viaducts and tunnels; improving the accessibility and safety of roads, without land consumption, increasing resilience to seismic phenomena and hydrogeological failure. When we are talking about sustainable mobility, it is clear that we are also talking about new cycling routes. It would be important to assess investments in cableway transport, linking the downstream countries with the mountain. These investments have the value of alternative transport, decongestant traffic on the road, improving both the quality of life of the inhabitants and the environment. All these investments have the task of improving beyond the supply on our country, also the employment, the productivity, the competitiveness and also a well functioning single market, with strong small and medium-sized enterprises. In order to do this, it is clear that we must keep up and help small and medium-sized enterprises, putting in place not only investments but also reforms, starting with simplification and reform of justice and taxation. The investments provided for in the two measures will also help to create jobs, but I think it is important at the moment to invest further in reducing the tax wedge and in labour to encourage recruitment and restore purchasing power to workers. We take into account the latest Istat surveys, which see two million more poor families. Another important and fundamental issue is the increase in raw materials (from wood to polymers, industrial metals, copper, nickel, steel and aluminium) as well as semiconductors. This shortcoming leads to higher prices, leading to the cancellation and renegotiation of orders, creating problems for companies on the work already put to the test by the pandemic. Mr President, in conclusion, there are many important things and issues to be addressed. The resources are there: all we need is determination and clear ideas. The League is there and works to make proposals and solutions concretely and restore lustre to our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u28	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank everyone for the work that has been done in the Commission, which has been as usual challenging, but has produced a result, namely the changes to the measure under consideration, which - let us remember - provides for the allocation of EUR 30 billion for additional works and projects to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR). Parliament has repeatedly spoken on the PNRR, but - unfortunately - it has always been through acts of direction and resolutions, so it has never been able to intervene in a specific way. The government has presented the project to us every time (first as a guideline and then as a slightly more specific project), but we have never had the opportunity to table amendments. Now, since it is EUR 30 billion that the government owes and wants to spend, fortunately it must come to Parliament to ask permission on how to spend it, so we have amended. I have to make a small criticism of the government, because it had already decided how to spend all of the nearly EUR 30 billion precisely, with the result that Parliament had not been able to intervene on any resource. Fortunately, after a heated debate and also interlocations between Parliament and Government and between Government and Regions, a solution has been found, i.e. using innovatively, but also constructively and surely usefully a part of the resources allocated to development and cohesion. This has been done with the permission of the Regions and it is established that what is planned through this amendment is discussed first in the State-Regions Conference. This is important, because we have managed to decide how to spend EUR 700 million of resources, which is no small thing, for the benefit of everyone: citizens, businesses and the environment. I would therefore like to thank the parliamentary groups (especially Forza Italia, which may have been the spin-off of this idea), the Minister for the South and territorial cohesion and all the others. Among the destinations of these EUR 700 billion is an extraordinary one, for which I should like to thank my colleague, Mrs Mantovani, who was not included in the PNRR. There is a lot of talk about innovation, technology, cohesion and inclusion, but we must remember that this last part is from school, from young people and from children. [[Applause]] And if we do not put innovative tools into the school to improve the school service, as well as the connection between schools, the regional school office and the Ministry, we will never be able to obtain a service that is up to date. Therefore, 135 million euros have been allocated for the creation of a digital IT infrastructure network to connect schools to the Ministry, so that the Ministry can have the confidence of each school, classroom and class and know what the actual problems of the schools are, thus being able to intervene in a precise, concrete and effective way. This measure was not contained in the PNRR, but fortunately Parliament thought about it with the allocation of these resources. For this I really thank the proposers, the Government and the Regions who gave the consent. Important, albeit limited, resources have also been allocated to improve animal welfare, which is an issue that little is mentioned in Parliament. We have been among the few groups that have tried and slowly we have managed to bring this issue to Parliament. A few resources are allocated, but they are useful to give a concrete signal of the desire to improve the quality and well-being of animals as well. In fact, if we talk about the environment, we talk about biodiversity and then we can't help but talk about animal welfare. Farmers will therefore have resources (which, as I said, are few), useful to improve their farms and convert them from intensive to free housing. I'm not stopping here. In addition to the burdensome measures, non-onerous changes have been made, but they improve the way in which the EUR 30 billion will be spent. I am referring to the fact that also biodiversity (which was not even mentioned and fortunately mentioned) will be allocated these EUR 2.8 billion, as well as the principle of the PNRR do no significant harm, according to which actions must not lead to problems or damage to the environment. The EUR 30 billion will be spent in this way. In conclusion, I would like to thank everyone and especially the offices for the work we have done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u31	Mr President, what we are about to adopt today is an important act, with which we are finally entering into the heart of two principles and two thrusts that have animated us in recent months: on the one hand, the PNRR and, on the other hand, the inclusion of environmental protection in the Constitution just a few days ago. Finally, with what has been called "fundone," let us consider concrete aspects. The six articles, which are slender, also identify resources for social inclusion, but what is written goes far beyond and certainly has an environmental significance. It is clear that social inclusion goes through the rethinking and planning of our cities, especially the suburbs, and this can only have an environmental value, which is crossed with a path that has begun in these three years with regard to the so-called theme of land use (we like to talk more about responsible use) and what we are carrying out precisely in these weeks in 13a. Commission on urban regeneration. Therefore, we consider it important to have finally identified the resources necessary for the extension, which we hope may be even wider, than the 110% superbonus. I do not go into detail and I just say that it is fundamental for us, because it gives concreteness to a fundamental vision. The same could be said for the setting that animates the League. In this case, if on the one hand the building development of the sixties and seventies has left indelible traces very heavy and wounds still open in our cities, it is not blocking and crystallizing everything that can be corrected to that error; it is not like in mathematics, in which less for less it does more, because two mistakes do not do a right thing. [[Applause]] Ours, therefore, is not a bitterness in finding a solution, but it wants to be the answer that allows enlightened entrepreneurs, municipal administrations and regions to imagine and have the tools to achieve something different. Unfortunately, today we tend to consider the whole world of construction as it has been described in one of the most important social films in the history of our cinema: I refer to "Le mani sulla città" by Francesco Rosi, 1963. Well, those who invest in construction today and really believe in it are not like Edward Nottola, the unscrupulous protagonist of that film, but someone who wants to invest and believes in the possibility of protecting the environment and having a development even by doing business. For this reason we think of certain actions and certain instruments and not by chance we would like the superbonus to 110 could also be extended to accommodation facilities, hotels, but also - why not - agritourisms, which, however, in the case of accommodation facilities, are among the buildings with the greatest thermal dispersion and with the need for energy efficiency, to solve also the problem of heat dispersion. This is a theme. Starting with the conclusion, the other great theme is that of seismic events. Having identified 1,780 billion for seismic events in Abruzzo in 2009 and in Central Italy in 2016 is certainly worthwhile. We in the League believe (and for this reason we have tabled an agenda) that it is important to include also the seismic events of Emilia in 2012, but the fundamental thing, on which we ask for an effort, is to change the approach. It's okay to talk about resources (there are); it's okay to set goals (we did it together for the first time); it's okay to identify concrete actions, but we also need a verification: as I have already mentioned, what happened with the earthquake of 1908 in Messina, so today we had to identify 100 million, could happen again. Therefore, the appeal I make to the Government in conclusion is also to give for once implementation to some agenda, in particular to that at my first signature of the League, which calls for the establishment of the permanent observatory on reconstruction (OPR), so that we can go and see, of all the resources employed and invested by the earthquake of the 1980 Irpinia, what has actually been done and what is still missing, because it is useless to stop to good intentions and also to put resources, if we are not able to implement what we propose. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u32	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, the rule that we are about to vote has the approval of the National Investment Plan, aimed at integrating, with national resources for a total of about 30 billion, for the years 2021 to 2026, the interventions of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Paragraph 2 distributes national resources, identifying programmes and interventions and establishing the allocation of resources among them, for a single year. The competent administration shall be identified for each measure. In the analysis of the text, I noted what Mr Briziarelli had already said, namely in Article 1, the allocation of 1.78 billion to the territories affected by the earthquake. The article considers the earthquakes of 2009 and 2016. In the bicameral commission on regional issues an opinion was voted inserting the 2012 earthquake; but at the request of the insertion of the earthquake 2018, the so-called earthquake of Santo Stefano, which hit nine municipalities of the Province of Catania, there was a denial. Well, today I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Ferrero, who accepted the proposal for the rewording of an agenda, and the addition of the signature, in which the 2018 earthquake was inserted, in addition to that of 2012. Thank you because this agenda, which in parliamentary jargon seems to be something of little significance, actually takes on an important significance at this very moment in history, because we are preparing for the White Semester. Is the White Semester the Semester of oblivion? Will this agenda be followed up by concrete action? Clearly, I hope it will be so. What's the point? In the decree-law unblocking yards was made an intervention for the earthquake of 2018, after which I personally attended, also at the working table then chaired by Curcio, a work that was to be joint, including the intervention for earthquakes throughout the Italian territory, but punctually so it was not. Punctually Sicily is always forgotten and the justifications are always the usual, as if the Sicilian governors, or whoever is in charge, were inadequate or did not have a satisfactory money management or at least turned to a sense of guarantee in the investment of the Government. I read you a message received from an earthquake in L'Aquila two days ago: did it matter only to the earthquake in L'Aquila? I've been witnessing rivers of money for 12 years. In my case my house has been multi-funded; you think that the architect who drew up the project with about 300,000 euros, 50,000 to the building manager; paid progress work (SAL) for over 1 million euros, without the building ever having seen a wheelbarrow. Then came a mayor who in 2017 operated the demolition, but to rebuild is not discussed. I am denied access to documents twice; they do not even match me for equivalent accommodation. What kind of town am I? "A" or "B"? Definitely H series, which is silent letter. This, ladies and gentlemen, proves that this distorted narration of a South incapable of managing must end. The Government has now undertaken to distribute the funds also for the earthquake in the province of Catania, which was, yes, financed until 2023, but the target of the reference fund is up to 2026 and the funds already allocated will certainly not be sufficient. Another topic that I would like to highlight is the famous theme of the Bridge on the Strait. As you know, an intergroup was created on it. It has been given visibility to Italy alive and Forza Italia. I must say, with great regret, that the conditional opinion of the Vice President of the Sicilian Region was not taken into account during the State-Regions Conference of 3 June, in which he absolutely hopes that the report of the Bridge on the Strait will be included in the PNRR. Not only has not been given visibility, but even in the measure that we are about to vote have been voted favorably two amendments, introduced respective from the Italian Groups Viva and from Forza Italia, that they concern the implementation of the naval fleet, therefore the crossing of the Strait, and the sustainable urban regeneration - it happens - of Reggio Calabria and Messina. I conclude by saying that we are all useless servants and that in the next parliamentary term it is not certain that the people who reside in these schools will be present again. We are called to work for Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u34	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u35	Mr President, it has been said in this House that we will come out of the pandemic different from the way we entered it: certainly tried, but different. They have already changed and will change many more costumes and ways of operating and also of working. I am thinking of the spread of the use of video conferencing platforms, to which we have become accustomed. We must take on important reforms, and it is our duty to work to correct the distortions that have stopped the growth of this country. The time has come to rebuild, to change, to roll up the sleeves, to facilitate and not to hinder those who work, our small and medium-sized enterprises, first of all, but also the big ones, for spending and for truly constructive investments. The Fund complements the PNRR was created to finance all those projects which, by their very nature, could not be included in the recovery plan and provides for investments that will be used to finance projects from now on and for the next five years. I would like to summarise some of the measures that have already been mentioned, which will be taken with the funding of the Fund. The first investments concern digitisation; digital services and digital citizenship, skills, satellite technologies, ecosystems for innovation in the South in marginalised urban contexts; there are further interventions aimed at earthquakes in 2009 and 2016. With regard to transport, action will be taken in the renewal of fleets, buses, trains, green ships, the strengthening of regional lines, the renewal of rolling stock, safe roads and the implementation of a dynamic monitoring system for remote control of bridges, viaducts and tunnels. I make an inscription: for some decades, we have neglected a type of work that covers all our heritage of historical works and even the most recent infrastructures; it is the category of works included in what is defined, with a noun accompanied by an adjective, as ordinary maintenance. I would like to focus on this concept, because I think it is very useful. Many times a timely intervention, even small in terms of costs, is enough in the initial phase of any phenomenon of degradation of any work and infrastructure, so that this does not go quickly in ruins, and of infrastructures to be restored we have so many, on some of which we also need to intervene urgently. Investments are planned for our immeasurable architectural, historical and cultural heritage (buildings and also natural areas). I repeat that on our peninsula and on our islands there exists and insists one of the greatest cultural and historical heritages of Europe and the whole world, which has deep and millennial roots, unique and unreplicable vestiges. There are also other investments in supply chain and district contracts for sectors such as agri-food, fisheries, aquaculture, forestry, floricultural and nursery. Here too we enter a context, that of agri-food production, which is unique for variety, quality and culture. Refinancing of the Development and Cohesion Fund and a supplementary fund for the superbonus are also planned. It is clear that this new deal, this new course, is historic and will represent a unique opportunity in this early 21st century. It is also clear that the structures and apparatus of the State, local authorities and any body and office required to authorise and manage projects and investments, capable of dealing with the process in a highly constructive spirit, will be needed. It is a change of pace that we will have to face with simple pragmatism in order to relaunch sustainable development aimed at respecting the environment and, therefore, ourselves and future generations. In a word, we need responsibility. We will have to work, believe in it and simplify it. We have no other way, women and men of this country, than to roll up our sleeves, as our ancestors did in even more difficult times, when Luigi Einaudi said: Migliaia, millions of individuals work, produce and save despite all that we can invent to harass, jam, discourage them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u36	She's registered to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u37	Mr President, today this House has the opportunity to intervene in the measure under discussion to protect animal welfare, an absolutely urgent and appropriate issue with the ecological transition plan, but unfortunately not in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The public's sensitivity to the conditions in which animals are reared on farms is increasing. Multiple surveys have demonstrated this over the years, including that of the Eurobarometer in 2016. More recently, in 2019, the European citizens' initiative "End the cage age," launched by Compassion in world farming together with 170 other European organisations, including 21 Italians, received my support and that of other Senators and Members of the intergroup on animal rights. In the European Union, more than 300 million animals (gallines, sows, quails and rabbits) suffer from imprisonment in cramped cages, which severely limit their movement. In Italy there are 45 million animals bred under these conditions. The initiative has been a huge success, collecting 1.4 million signatures from European citizens, of which more than 90,000 are Italians. The petition was also supported by 140 scientists, including the world-renowned ethologist and environmentalist Jane Goodall; also important companies have publicly given their support. Following this great mobilization, just last week, the European Parliament voted with an overwhelming majority a resolution calling on the European Commission to ban the use of cages in farms by 2027, committing itself to supporting farmers and producers with subsidies that favour and support the transition to systems without cages. Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides took part in the debate and commented that the Commission's commitment to improving animal welfare remains a moral, health and economic imperative. I would add that this is not only a matter of sensitivity to animals, but also of protecting public health, if it is true that these methods are the cause of the antibiotic-resistance in humans, the excessive production of carbon dioxide and methane and also, as has been proven, the spread of epidemics. The transition to systems that are more respectful of animal welfare, which has been strongly and democratically demanded by Italian and European citizens, is therefore a major demand today. The European Parliament has listened to the request and also in our country, at the local level, the Regions Abruzzo and Emilia-Romagna have voted important resolutions in this regard. There is therefore a desire not to lag behind. For this reason, it is essential today to approve financial support for farmers for the transition to systems without cages, with the first-signed amendment by Senator Pesco, who asks in point 3 to add Article 1-a on incentives for farmers to switch to free, extensive and pasture farming methods such as open-air farming. The transition to cageless systems is the highest standard for animal welfare, which is now inevitable. The priority now is to ensure that our country does not lag behind and with the necessary tools to ensure that Italian animal husbandry does not suffer competition from other European countries. In this regard, I would like to thank, in addition to Senator Daniele Pesco, the first signatory, our leader in the Budget Committee Gianmauro Dell'Olio and our Minister Stefano Patuanelli, who is supporting this important passage of civilization, ethical, economic and health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u38	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u39	Mr President, both Senator Calandrini and Senator Drago, who preceded me, have explained how in fact, once again, the method used gives little space both to the Commission, as in this case, and to the House. The Commissions, in fact, are the target of mere information for a large part of the PNRR, while a disguised maneuver - or, better, a measure that costs and unduly the nation as a financial maneuver - would impose much more debate, at least out of respect for the public money that we go to use. This is yet another maneuver in debt: I remind everyone that we are talking about PNRR and recovery plans as if they were the panacea and the solution of all the evils, when this Parliament in a year and a half has already resolved the use of debt resources for the same amount, more than 200 billion. To tell the truth, out there few people noticed it, also because the method used, that of rain contributions, often marked very little concreteness (with many slogans, many marchettes, let's face it, and little concreteness). After all, since March 2018 we have been witnessing such manoeuvres, we have learned it. This PNRR is a maneuver in debt, after Europe had forced us to austerity for years. The leaders of the parties that have governed up to now have always explained to us that Europe asked us to do so, that is to say, it required us to curb investment, social and welfare in the name of austerity. The data, be careful, are rather pitiful: I refer to those elaborated by our study center, which has existed for several years, even if today someone boasts for electoral purposes of having a study center, but at the most he can boast of having copied from Brothers of Italy, which an efficient and valid one has it for years now. Well, I take that as a starting point for saying that GDP in Italy rose by 7.9% from 1999 to 2019, while Germany, for example, has grown by 32%, France by 32.4% and Spain by as much as 43.6 percent. Not to mention the people on the poverty line, who certainly did not fall here: in 2005 they were 3.3 of the population, in 2020 9,4 (and yesterday's Istat figure is even worse). In recent years the State has fallen behind, in the name of that austerity that you have filled your mouth with, which has led to a low productivity of our companies and the inability - unfortunately, given the production system of this nation - to seize the opportunities, for an infrastructural lack. It is a reality linked to our small and medium-sized enterprises, which for years someone - as Mr De Bertoldi always says - has seen almost as an obstacle to the great globalist system, which would want everything concentrated in the hands of a few and that we were merely consumers, aseptics, at the mercy of these large groups. In fact, our small and medium-sized enterprises have always been the strength of this nation, the true economic biodiversity, another term you fill your mouth with, in most cases without even knowing what it means (but we have understood that the modus operandi is this, so we are not more surprised). In fact, I said that not only did the state brake, but it really pulled the oars in the boat compared to many themes, as the numbers still show, that they are merciless, when they are read and do not hide under the carpet, inside a tome of the PNRR given at the last minute, to make sure that no one reads them or that only the titles or figures are read (if there are any). Investments in Italy have increased by 66% in the same reference years, while in Europe by 118. Well, that would be enough to make us understand that perhaps those policies imposed were bankrupt. The public share of investment, however, has fallen from 14.6 to 12.7 per cent, demonstrating what I was saying, namely that not only did it slow down, but it even went back. The cause is blamed for the lack of reforms, and that is true; but be careful because the reforms that this PNRR is asking for are difficult and the Nation has been waiting for them for years. Together with them, Europe also writes us precise and timely recommendations, such as the use of extraordinary revenue to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio. Extraordinary revenue: I believe that none of us can not read them as an increase in taxation, like the asset, dear to you, so much so that the leader of the Democratic Party, as the first exit, after the ius soli, has thought well to drop it, otherwise it can no longer keep you all united, except in the demand for higher taxes (it happens then the Italians penalize you, whenever you go to vote). But it's not just this one. There is also a reduction in tax concessions; again, we do not need to explain what this means. It's all in the PNRR and its recommendations, as well as the reform of cadastral values, another hidden asset, even more subtle, but always present in your programs. Then you can't implement it, because the Italians jump on your back, but in the meantime you always put it on and you always give it as a recommendation. Why? Europe is asking us to do that. Long live Europe! Your Europe is asking for this; our Europe, that of peoples, nations and peoples, has never asked to crush the economy of individual nations. [[Applause]] He has always asked to be a Europe of the peoples, not of the great multinationals and bureaucrats, as you like. Gentlemen, all the great missions of this PNRR have a cost, in economic and social terms. Because of deformation, but also because of the scope of competence, I will focus briefly on agriculture, because digitalisation and innovation (which are even more important in agriculture) are also important in this PNRR. We avoid, however, making everyone believe things out of here, not only those who once in their lives made the home vegetable garden, but also those many farmers who today make our Nation a flagship in the world of agri-food production. We do not believe that environmental protection is contrary to agriculture, because that is not the case. You have to finish telling us that it is farmers who pollute the fields. You have to stop making people believe that you can replace the meat with the synthetic one or with the larvae or with products built in the laboratory. [[Applause]] Those products have nothing to do with yours and our biodiversity. We cannot expect biodiversity when, in fact, we open up to the possibility of producing meat in the laboratory and we also have the assumption that we want to make them believe it and call it meat. It's not meat! Call it whatever you want. Eat your shoe soles too: it's not a problem for me. Fry them and eat them, but don't call it meat. [[Applause]] We all hope that these resources will be well spent, because - as I have always said - you will not find people here who are against you regardless. Of course, you do not find us at your side when you decide to replace our model of development and civilization with a model of development and civilization that has nothing to do with our culture and our identity, but that is very useful to those who want to transform us into mere consumers and empty people of any kind of identity, because more easily addressable and, therefore, more easily enslavable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u40	Good job! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u41	Mr President, with the Fund complementary to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, important resources are allocated, which lay the foundations for a reorganisation of the National Health Service which will have, as cornerstones, the safety of hospital buildings; transnational networks of excellence, in order to pool both public and private expertise and to offer a high-quality care service; the one-health approach, i.e. a new framework for collective prevention of public health, which, with regard to climate and environmental change, wants to allow a better promotion of health and well-being; the anti-pandemic hubs, with more research and specialisation of the study to combat health emergencies. In fact, the so-called fund under consideration allocates €2 billion and €387.41 million to the Ministry of Health, which are added to the PNRR's 8.6 million. In this debate, the need to return to support territorial health deserves to be highlighted. For the Democratic Party, proximity is the key word for addressing the new challenges facing us. It is also true in relation to a health care that is capable of being closer and closer to its citizens. In the last 20 years, according to Eurostat and OECD data, the total beds available in hospitals have been reduced by around 30%, because over the years we have created a kind of reorganisation focused on what has been called de-hospitalisation. What the pandemic has highlighted is that, in the face of a robust hospital reorganization, a careful reorganization of the healthcare supply has been lacking in an integrated, complementary and unitary vision of care: from the family doctor to the high-tech hospital. The point must be to strengthen the territorial network of health companies. There are two directions: community homes and home care. Community homes, however, cannot be just a renaming of health homes, which in turn are nothing but the re-edition of INAM's clinics of several decades ago. It was intended to use the expression "community" because it is an idea of public service, albeit with a new form of social management. Community homes can and must be - as Caritas and other agencies in the third sector ask - tools for a re-foundation of the welfare system. Home care will, on the other hand, be aimed in particular at patients over the age of sixty-five years, with one or more chronic and/or non-self-sufficient diseases, with the aim of increasing the volume of home care benefits, up to take charge, by the middle of 2026, of 10 percent of the population over the age of sixty-five years. These ambitious projects, President, must be accompanied by a reorganization of the hospital system, designed in synergy with what is necessary for the territory, and above all able to redesign overall the Italian nosocomial network in its characteristics and purposes and, of course, precisely in virtue of what the pandemic has taught us, by a reorganization of competences, roles and functions between the State and the Regions; and this in order to make our National Health Service not already more efficient from an economic point of view, but more able to respond adequately to the new health and emerging challenges that - we understand this - the future can still reserve us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u42	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u43	Mr President, using resources to fill inequality, including territorial inequality: these are the conditions in Brussels that have allowed Italy to access the largest part of the recovery fund compared to all European countries. The European Commission document of 28 May 2020 on page 8 explains the criteria for Italy to have had this substantial fund: direct proportionality to the population; reverse proportionality to the level of income per capita; direct proportionality to the average unemployment rate over the last five years. Unfortunately, according to these criteria, 65% would be the case in the Mezzogiorno. Why this percentage? It is enough to recalculate redistribution by using the same Brussels criteria and, therefore, the same three variables. Italy has therefore achieved about 210 billion just because we need to fill inequality, the gap between the North and the South, otherwise it would not have received them. Yet, the Count 2 government exulted for a 50 percent in the South and Draghi opens the PNRR emphasising 40%. Those who do not even want to meet this percentage do not want to meet the Brussels criteria, but not only that. We must remember that this was also the specific will of Parliament, which represents the sovereign people. In fact, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate have already expressed their views on the subject, asking precisely for the adoption of the three Brussels criteria in the report on the proposal for guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan of the United Commissions 5th and 14th of the Senate, approved in October. That report states that the reference in the PNRR guidelines to the 34 per cent clause, that is to say to the distribution of funds by reason of the resident population, does not appear sufficient to operate the expected rebalancing, being only one of the three measures aimed at establishing a criterion for the planning of investments in proportion to the resident population; therefore not enough to promote the reduction of the territorial gaps still existing today between the different areas of our country, in which a differentiation in relation to GDP per capita and the unemployment rate persists. And again, Parliament, in the report of the Fifth Commission of the Chamber of Deputies of 13 October, in identifying priorities in the use of the recovery fund, says that it seems necessary to apply, with possible adjustments, the criterion of allotment between countries for the subsidies from the Recovery and Resilience Facility (population, GDP per capita and unemployment rate) to apply. This criterion must therefore also be used for the distribution between regions and macro areas, in order to support economically disadvantaged areas. Well, although Brussels has given us access to these funds for this reason and despite the fact that the House and the Senate have clearly expressed themselves, not even 40% so magnificent by Draghi will likely be able to bring home, because there is yet another risk: the risk of this 40% being reduced. What's the risk? It is the node of non-territorialised projects, and it is a risk of diverting further 8.7 billion to the South to the North. We've been through the narrative for a long time now that the South has taken more money than the North. And we know that well, since these classrooms, even by the Movimento 5 Stars, reiterated, in the old legislature, the necessity of the law of 34 percent, never implemented. And it turns out that real state investment has always and still gone to the North. We cannot allow this to happen again and there is more than one amendment in this respect. In particular, there is a cross-cutting amendment, signed by 35 senators, which calls for verification that the resources of the recovery fund are used for territorial rebalancing, so that there is no risk that the non-territorialised projects will move the appropriations still to the North, for almost 10 billion. There is a need for clarity in the allocation of funds, and it is therefore necessary, at Parliament's suggestion, to monitor the territorial fallout extended to the whole framework of the PNRR, also in order to verify the law on the share of ordinary investments to be placed in the Mezzogiorno, in proportion to what has remained the number of the population, because 40% only respond to this criterion and it is necessary that at least this criterion is maintained. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u44	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission for the work they have done and for the results they have brought home. Secondly, I would very briefly like to refer this measure back to the framework within which it should be, in the sense that, when it was presented by the President of the Council of Draghi, the latter was very clear in explaining the recovery, the measure under consideration (i.e. the 30 billion supplementary fund) and its effects. Therefore, the reading of individual projects, interventions and funding - in my opinion - must inevitably be done in a mirror, because otherwise you risk getting lost in a flight that does not allow a general vision. Having said that, I would also like to point out that with this measure the Government and the President-in-Office of the Council fulfilled a commitment which had been made with reference to ecobonus and earthquakebonus. I remember very hot days, with agencies of all kinds and colors. And a commitment was made, which with this Fund has been respected. I have looked at the effects of the Supplementary Fund in an area which is certainly a bit in difficulty as can be the Umbria, from which I come, which is an internal region. Firstly, at least the two provinces and certainly the city of Foligno will participate in the allocation of EUR 300 million for investments in urban regeneration and urban and sustainable regeneration. These are important measures, based on more than one year. There will be a strengthening and strengthening of regional railway lines, including in terms of connection with high speed. In addition, there will be interventions in favour of inland roads, which we are particularly interested in because three internal areas will benefit from them. Obviously we will also be interested in the economic and social reactivation of the areas that will receive funding for the part related to the earthquake and Central Italy. Considering also the interventions contained in the recovery, we can certainly say that we are talking about interventions and projects that are very important for a territorial reality. Equally very important is the Polis intervention, which will allow all municipalities under 15.000 inhabitants to have at least a kind of smart digital post office. This is fundamental for regions like mine and not only, and I also think of many internal areas. Today we are about to adopt an important measure, to which Parliament, thanks also to Forza Italia, has made a significant contribution and which must be considered in the broadest objective before us, namely to put Italy in a completely different position than the current one within a few years, by 2026. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing that we must tell ourselves frankly, and I say this to those who want to understand it: on this project and especially on the use of the resources of recovery and the supplementary fund we must believe ourselves first, because these are objectives that must be pursued with clear determination. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u46	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u47	Mr President, members of the Government, the approval of the National Investment Plan complementary to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is worth - as has already been said - 30 billion euros. As regards the agricultural, agri-food and the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, it is worth 1.2 billion euros for the years 2022 to 2026, with reference to supply chain and district contracts for the agro-food, fisheries, aquaculture, forestry, floricultural and nursery sectors, already starting from a very important first amount for 2021 of 200 million euros. These resources - be careful - are additional to the €8 billion already foreseen in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Therefore, in total we are talking about 9.2 billion sure, which create a value of more than 25 billion in the whole agro-food industry, from earth to table. These are extraordinary and important measures. Within the framework of this strategy, namely sustainable agriculture and the circular economy, we have also carried out in the 9th Commission some important indications that the Government must bear in mind in the definition of implementing decrees: it is necessary to increase the competitiveness of the sector, investing in training aimed at the diffusion of agriculture 4.0, of precision agriculture, the use of many innovative technologies also related to sudden and abnormal climate change. You know that this year our country has suffered a damage of one billion euros for the frosts. We must prevent, and not fight, events with resources and this becomes fundamental and strategic for all our farmers. Furthermore, we must promote an important process by promoting the dismantling of the oldest, most polluting and obsolete agricultural means, by giving safety, tranquillity and protection to the work of our farmers. We must also promote the growth of important, self-sufficient energy communities, and increase - as we have said several times - the competitiveness of the food supply chains of meat and milk, and stabilise the profitability of our farmers and farmers. We must also reduce production costs and I would refer you to the motion tabled last week regarding the costs of raw materials. We must intervene in order to unravel procedures, simplify, support the excellence of Italian agri-food: I am thinking of protected designations of origin (PDO), controlled and guaranteed designations of origin (DOCG) and typical geographical indications (IGT). We must intervene in favour of entrepreneurship: support for generational replacement was already done last year with our own measure contained in the simplification decree, and now we must help female entrepreneurship with certain resources, grants and interests so that they can invest in agricultural activities. We must implement an important strategy in support of Made in Italy, on the channels on which the ancient culinary tradition of our country is based: the Mediterranean diet, an extraordinary element of propaganda in the world of what is that made in Italy, with certainty of health of the product. Luigi Einaudi said that the legislator had to know in order to deliberate. Then we must think that today the brand made in Italy in the world has a value of 1,700 billion dollars; it has decreased compared to the past years, but it is always important. That is why we must act according to the direction we give, because among the most important problems, beyond that of bureaucracy and public affairs, there is also that of justice. The League will therefore be at the side of all those who work in this sector with great determination, to overcome the critical issues I have just mentioned and above all to move towards a constructive and positive path for our agro-food sector, a true pillar of GDP. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Gallicchio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u49	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before clarifying some technical aspects contained in the Decree-Law on the Complementary Plan under consideration today, it is necessary to quickly open a focus on the main aspects of the context that made the adoption of this economic measure necessary, alongside the whole National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Already before the pandemic, Italy in Europe, or even better, the whole European Union, was part of a perimeter of very strict economic and financial rules, not in step with the great challenges that climate change and then the pandemic had faced us. The pandemic was an accelerator of the processes of change now more urgent, initiated by the clear European victory of the previous Government led by Giuseppe Conte, which led Europe to put in place for the first time a massive issue of common debt to finance the recovery fund, as well as to suspend the Stability and Growth Pact and many rigidities in the rules on state aid. The European Central Bank has radically changed its toolbox, buying massive government bonds and showing that it is certainly not an increase in public debt that affects the famous spread, but it is precisely the monetary policies of the ECB itself. Today we are debating and I would say reaping the fruits of all this, although generated by a human and social drama such as the pandemic was unfortunately. Looking at the decree-law of the Supplementary Fund and, through it, at the entire National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the Movimento 5 Stars managed to oversee and ensure the development of some fundamental measures for the revival of the Country. Within the decree, which - as we know - allocates 30 billion euros from here to 2026 to support projects next to the National Plan, I want to focus on two measures marked Movimento 5 Stars, the most financed. One concerns the superbonus 110 percent, to which the decree-law assigns 4.5 billion, which go up to almost 19 billion with the resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan real and proper; and the other concerns the facilitations in investments for the enterprises (transition 4.0), to which the decree-law assigns 5 billion, that go up to beyond 18 billion, always like total resources. The pandemic imposed the need to start an unstoppable race towards the future by putting in place revolutionary tools and processes completely rethought. And we did so starting from the decree-law I raise with the superbonus 110% for the building, developing the mechanism of the yieldability of the tax credits. On this issue it cannot be Eurostat's ambiguous opinion to condition the Government and to prevent this mechanism from being extended to tax credits for business investments in transition 4.0. All economic observers identify credit availability as a key tool to ensure the provision of liquidity to the whole world of companies that need it to overcome the many difficulties and create the jobs they need. The extension of credit transferability has also been signed by all political forces in the PNRR's final report on 5 Star Movement input, and it cannot be prevented from being adopted right now, while a profound and inevitable revision of many European economic and financial rules is under way. This obstacle must also be overcome in order to restart. 12:34 a.m. (Following GALLICK). We want to create a better world than before and this, with regard to me and the Movimento 5 Stars, I am convinced that with courage and determination we are doing so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u50	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Conzatti.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u51	Mr President, I have listened with great interest to the speeches made by my fellow Members and I am pleased to make two comments: the first is on the substance of the measure and the second is on the way. I think this is a good measure. The decree-law of the Government, having the same aims and guidelines as the PNRR is a good provision and structured well, with a fixed look towards the future. And the measures adopted in Parliament also go in the same direction and are interesting. I also assure my colleagues that they are concerned about the resources in the South: the Budget Commission has also worked to enhance accessibility and safety of roads with particular reference to the South, the internal areas, the "last mile" connections with ports and airports, the medium-sized municipalities and also the links with archaeological sites. Not only that: a very interesting amendment was adopted which provides for an annual report to Parliament to monitor the territorialisation of resources, so that each Member can monitor this path. The agendas presented are also very interesting and important, because the Government has agreed to commit itself so that in the next steps, starting from the budget law, they can be implemented. I am talking - for example - about the strengthening of measures on earthquakes, those that have been excluded in this measure, and about the very required and important measure of 110% that allows the green transition of all our buildings, which we know to be particularly dated. A subjective extension of the 110% measure is also important in terms of enterprise activity, precisely in order to marry the vision of union between the ability to do business and to undertake in a sustainable way. The issue of debt is important, but the one that we examine is precisely a measure that is good debt, that debt that allows the country to transform and reform itself, to grow, to make that growth necessary to make sustainable the debt that actually in its relationship with GDP has reached almost 160 percent. It is therefore a good debt that goes in the right direction. Finally, after 240 billion debt a little passive, let's go in the right direction. Members are right on the way: there has been a problem of the relationship between legislative power and executive power in the last year of the pandemic. However, I have to say that this is the least emblematic of the measures, because it is closely connected and interwoven with the PNRR and was difficult to amend. The fact that we have succeeded both at the legal level and at the level of onerous amendments shows a great deal of work and cooperation between the Government and Parliament. On the rest and on the other measures we must remember that Italy is a parliamentary Republic and must also be a parliamentary Republic in fact. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Rivolta.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to thank the Government, Minister D'Incà, Under-Secretarys Bini and Sartore and, in particular, Minister Carfagna for their willingness to find room for amendment on the Development and Cohesion Fund for 700 million. I also thank the offices of the 5th Commission and the Ministry of Economics and Finance (MEF), in the people of Doctors Storto and Aulicino, for their valuable support work. I would like to thank President Pesco and all the members of the 5th Commission who have made it possible to arrive at an uneasy and orderly summary both in the amending phase and through the transformation into the agenda of significant issues that are now at the attention of the Government for the next amendments. We are experiencing a historical moment which, due to the difficulties, the debt that young people have borne, for the not simple relationship, even balanced, between Government and Parliament, for the challenge that this extraordinary endowment of resources imposes on us, we hope can allow a phase of expansionary growth and progress for our businesses, for our families and for the poorest and most suffering part of the country, so that there can be a real and responsible possibility of redemption. We hope for this and really expect a great opportunity from a disaster. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u53	The minority rapporteur, Senator Calandrini, and the representative of the Government, renounce to intervene. I suspend the sitting for ten minutes in order to allow the opinion of the Budget Committee which has just finished its work to be written. Mr Pesco, I would ask you whether ten minutes is a reasonable time. PESCO (M5S). Mr President, it would be better to have 20 minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I remind everyone, like myself, that, if you want to avoid the suspension for sanitization and, therefore, allow the vote before the question time takes place, you need the maximum collaboration in the successive phases because, otherwise, the vote will take place at the end of the question time. A few words to good connoisseur. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.) I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u54	I am in favour of amendments 1.8 (text 2), identical to amendments 1.9 (text 2), 1.18 (text 2), 1.24 (text 2), 2.2 (text 2), 2.3 (text 2), 2.4 (text 2), 2.7 (text 2), 3.0.5 (text 2), 3.0.6 (text 2), 3.0.7 (text 2), 4.2 (text 2). I also support Amendments 1.28 (text 2), 1.29 (text 2), identical to Amendments 1.31 (text 2), 1.32 (text 2), 1.35 (text 3), 1.64 (text 2); Amendments 1.38 (text 2), 1.44, identical to Amendment 1.45; Amendments 1.56 (text 2), 1.57, 1.67 (text 2), 1.109, 1.112 (text 2), identical to Amendment 1.107 (text 2). As far as agenda G1.6 is concerned, I call on you to withdraw. On Amendment 1.0.9 (text 2) the opinion was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u55	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u56	Amendments 1.1 and 1.2 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators Calandrini and De Carlo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.4 to 1.7 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.8 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senators Calandrini and De Carlo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.12 to 1.16 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 1,17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senators Calandrini and De Carlo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.19 to 1.27 (text 2) have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.28 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.29 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.29 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.30 tabled by Senator Abate. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,34 to 1,37 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.38 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.39 to 1.43 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,44, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,46 to 1.10 (text 2) have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.55, tabled by Senators Calandrini and De Carlo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.56 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,57, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.58 to 1.62 have been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 1.63, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.63, tabled by Senators Calandrini and De Carlo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.66 (text 2) and 1.65 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.67 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.68 to 1.72 have been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 1.73, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.73, tabled by Senator Calandrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.74, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.74, tabled by Senator Calandrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that amendments 1.75 to 1.77 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.78, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.78 tabled by Senator Calandrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.79 to 1.94 have been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment No 1.95, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.95 tabled by Senator Calandrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.96 to 1.101 have been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment No 1,102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator Calandrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,103 and 1,104 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.105, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,106 and 1,108 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,109, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1,112 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,113 to 1,118 have been withdrawn. Agendas from G1.1 to G1.5 have been withdrawn. As the presenter insists on the vote, I call for the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on the agenda G1.6 tabled by Senator Abbot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agendas from G1.7 to G1.30 have been withdrawn. Amendments 1.0.1 to 1.0.8 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.0.9 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.10 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u57	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u58	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u59	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.1 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.5 to 2.0.1 have been withdrawn. Amendments and agendas relating to Article 3 of the Decree-Law have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u60	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendments 4.4 and 4.6. On the G4.2 agenda, there is an invitation to withdraw, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u61	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u62	Amendments 4.1 and 4. 3 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 4.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 4.4 tabled by Senator Abate. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.5 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senators Grenato and Angrisani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.7 has been withdrawn. The G4.1 agenda has been withdrawn. As the rapporteur insists on the vote, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on the agenda G4.2 tabled by Senator Abbot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agenda G4.3 has been withdrawn. Amendments 4.0.1 to 4.0.10 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u65	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I will try to be extremely brief, since we are giving ourselves very limited time for explanations of vote. We are about to vote on a measure that is of strategic importance because, with the complementary fund of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we are going to complement the actions already planned on the PNRR. These are obviously very important actions, on which there has been a close confrontation in the Commission, as is well known. There has been an improvement due to the work done by the Commissions, which must certainly be thanked in a very heartfelt way because achieving a shared solution on such important issues is not easy. The sheet is always too short, as is known in these circumstances; however, one cannot fail to recognize the goodness of the work carried out on many themes. I would like to remind you of the improvement achieved thanks to the amendments adopted in the Commission, particularly with regard to the South. In this regard, however, I cannot fail to say that, unfortunately, sometimes - I am Sardinian and I must say - we forget that Sardinia is also part of the South, which is also part of the Mezzogiorno; it is an island and therefore is affected by all the criticalities and adverse effects of the island condition. Unfortunately, the interventions are objectively very small, although Sardinia, I repeat, is part of the Mezzogiorno. However, with this measure we do not simply work for a short-term result; we are working - I am sure, the address is that - to give a serious future to the generations who will come after us. It is enough to think that the actions envisaged will certainly commit a large part of the next parliamentary term to be implemented. This is an absolutely fundamental fact. We are about to approve an extremely important measure, so Italy Viva-Party Socialist Italian cannot help but express a convincingly favourable vote on the whole measure. Allow me, Mr President, to conclude by also hoping that the Government - it is a prayer that I make and we are going to make a motion in this regard - will be able to work as quickly as it has done on this occasion also to find an effective solution on other fronts. In particular, I am referring to a crucial issue for the entire country, that is the crisis of the company Air Italy, that is disrupting the national transports and once again the transports between the Peninsula and Sardinia. I hope that within a very short time the Government will take care of this problem. I know that today there has been a meeting - or perhaps it is still in progress - between the representatives of the company and the government itself. I hope that very decisive action will be taken soon and I address the Subsecretaries present to make themselves bearers of these needs because they are really experiencing a time of difficulty: 1600 workers run the risk of dismissal for a number of reasons that are not yet completely clear; the Cassa Integrazione will end on 30 June. Given that we are doing such important operations, such as those provided for in this measure which, as I said, complements all the measures contained in the PNRR, I hope that we can also resolve these contingent and very urgent problems with the same effectiveness as we are dealing with the situation that has arisen in the post-pandemic; therefore, that we can also contribute to the revival of the economic activity of all regions without distinction, with incisiveness and determination. I repeat Italy Viva-PSI's vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u68	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, we have decided to use three minutes for the explanation of vote. We, as the Mixed-Leu-Echo Group, will vote in favour of this measure. Some important choices have been made: energy redevelopment in the Adriatic area for the production of renewable energy, digitalization of the school system, railway connections in the South, urban redevelopment. I have to say with sincerity that these are measures which the whole of the Commission has approved. I am thinking, for example, of the pollution of the Po Valley area. However, an instrument (the FSC) with a complicated procedural element is used under objective conditions. We could not do otherwise to recognize a footprint that all the Groups, including the same opposition, rightly claimed. I want to make it clear that I hope that this will not be a precedent for the FSC, because the FSC must and can no longer be - on this we all agree - an ATM that is used as needed. However, these important and shared investments must correspond to an essential criterion, that of 80-20, i.e. 80% in the South and 20% in the North. Now, all this is part of an extraordinary effort to change the country; we will have the opportunity to discuss it again. We have made our contribution in the discussion on the PNRR and we think that we should have the utmost attention in the management in relation not only to the time of the projects, but also to their quality, starting from the correspondence with regard to the major objectives: ecological transition, women, young people, the Mezzogiorno, work. These are priorities that must be governed; we will have the opportunity to discuss them with simplification and with the choices that the government will have to make. Given that time is coming to an end, I would like to address a more comprehensive problem with sincerity. We have repeatedly claimed the role of the Senate and Parliament in this House. Let's face it, ladies and gentlemen: it is very difficult to achieve this commitment, but it is essential. We cannot - and I say this to the Government - proceed in a dynamic which essentially does not allow Parliament to make a real contribution in this case of the Senate. Let us be clear, the reasons why we are here are known: the pandemic and the emergency, all of which are more than well-founded. At this point, we ask the Government to take on this problem not in words, but in finding a method that, while in the dynamics of the emergency, allows the Groups and Parliament to play a role, first of all by establishing a preventive relationship with Parliament with respect to the definition of the final path. It is right and essential - and we need it - that all the parliamentary groups should contribute both to opposition and to the majority. But we must be careful: when the system of representation does not represent because it does not play its role, there is an objective problem for everyone, both for the country and for democracy. I expect the Government to present us with a proposal for a method to respond to this issue. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u71	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote after having played the role of minority rapporteur on this measure. I repeat what I said a few hours ago, namely that the examination of the measure certainly did not begin with the best wishes, because during the initial hearings of almost a month ago the vice minister Castelli began by saying - immediately - that the decree was blocked and that there were no conditions for amending it. It seemed that things were going in that direction, but then, in the last seventy-two hours, there was an acceleration by the majority, who asked the government to intervene and go beyond the initial amount of €30.6 billion referred to this decree. What I think should be noted is the total confusion of the majority. We were easy prophets when, in unsuspecting times, we said that such a different government group would cause more problems and compromises downwards, than benefits our fellow citizens. And we were not wrong, because today we are in this House, after almost a month of uncertainty, to examine a measure (which, among other things, is very slender because it is made up of only six articles), on which the parties of government have done nothing but debate and clash, while the members of the Commission, who I see in part present today, have been in showy embarrassment and have been able to fail many requests, in particular ours, for lack of financial cover. For weeks Brothers of Italy has denounced the absence of a real debate on the Plan complementary to the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience, especially in the method. I would like to remind you that even on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, Parliament has actually spent months discussing the draft prepared by the Government Count II, except then to be in the Chamber with communications from President Draghi and a provision embedded. The Plan, prepared by the Government, was seen by the European Commission even before the National Parliament. The Chambers could not move a single comma and they have also read the complete documents in a hurry, given the tight times dictated by Brussels. The consequence is that only today we are aware of many projects hidden between the lines of this Plan, such as - it has emerged in these days in the national press - a spending chapter of 25 million euros to prevent crimes of a fiscal and economic nature through an algorithm that, connected to different databases, will have the task of identifying suspicious behaviors of potential evaders, with good peace of privacy. Meanwhile, we are waiting for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan to become operational. We know that this will not happen unless the famous reforms are launched; full-bodied reforms such as justice, competition and the tax system, just to name a few. Mr President, the government says that everything will be done by the end of 2021 and we hope so because there are six months to go. It would seem a lot of time, but in fact it will be very little. Without these reforms, as you all know, it will also be difficult to pursue such an ambitious plan, which must be confirmed by 2026. Mr President, since we are in an emergency, perhaps someone believes that democracy can be suspended, as has been the case in the past fifteen months, first in the form of lockdown, then in the form of measures which are still severely restrictive of personal freedom, while in the meantime the political debate is also suspended, allowing the government to act as the only person, even if it does not express a popular will. The truth is that in these days perhaps you have been too busy clashing with such a varied majority, without being able to listen to the only minority force in Parliament that has insisted and urged you, which is the Brothers of Italy. In these days we have also heard the former Prime Minister Conte praise once again the income of citizenship as a measure of social inclusion to be proudly claimed; a measure - we must note with regret - that has also been confirmed and financed by the Government Dragons, from which we sincerely expected much more. Perhaps only Brothers of Italy, because others are deaf and dumb, get information about mobsters, drug dealers, immigrants who receive unduly the income of citizenship; millions of euros wasted that could be allocated to businesses to create jobs and that instead went to support people sitting on their own couch at home. Similarly, it has been interesting to hear Mr Bersani praise Minister Hope these days, calling him a captain who has taken our country out of the Covid storm. Yes, we understood well, he was referring to Minister Hope, the Minister of Curfew, the Minister of Hidden Minutes that were taken out only thanks to sentences of the regional administrative court (TAR); finally, the Minister who first established that the vaccine of AstraZeneca was only for young people, then that it was better to do it to the over 60s, then it was not recommended under thirty years and last it was said that it was better not to do it to women. A little more seriousness at this moment would not hurt, out of respect for those many Italians who are putting - yes, in this case - hope in the vaccination campaign that seems to be working in the best way. Our feeling, which we always feel also on the occasion of this measure, is that you are too far from the reality to accept a serious confrontation. Perhaps you are too busy trying to find a way to put your hands, as my colleague De Carlo said, in the pockets of Italians to the sound of assets or to open the borders to illegal immigration, thinking that at this moment the Italians are interested in it alone rather than stability and economic recovery. You are committed to livening up the amount that will suffice to spend the immense resources that will come from Europe, assuming that we succeed, and that much that will be enough to reach the 3 August, the white semester, which will guarantee you another six months of legislature. In these months you have governed to the sound of referrals: remember the decree-law care Italy, then you referred to the decree-law relaunch, then to the decree-law August, then arrived the decree-law supports and finally arrived the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. Everything that has not entered the PNRR has been decided by Europe, not by the national Parliament. Yet we have not asked for the moon: we have only tabled fifteen amendments, very few, to demonstrate, as always, that we are a party and a responsible group that wants the good of our fellow citizens. We are not available, we are not happy and we will continue to denounce it in this way and in this debate which is in the majority and which is not in Parliament's classrooms. But, as we have said from the outset, our standing in opposition to this Government will be in the name of responsibility and not of opposition regardless. For this reason, in the name of the responsibility we have towards the Italians and aware of the expectations contained in this supplementary measure to the PNRR, with all the limitations that we have noted, the vote of Brothers of Italy will be abstaining. [[Applause.]] (at 13.35 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u74	MANCA (PD). Mr President, in thanking the rapporteurs Conzatti and Rivolta, the Government, the Undersecretary Sartore, and in declaring the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the measure, I just want to confine myself to two considerations, the first of which is the following. The full support of the Draghi Government, of which we are part together with the whole majority, in my opinion is not contrary to the need to restore centrality to Parliament; on the contrary, the contrary: the Government is stronger if it safeguards the centrality of Parliament in full respect of the Constitution. I consider the work carried out in this conversion to be an important first sign, because we have succeeded, thanks to collaboration both within the majority but above all in relation to the Government, to give an identity to the path of conversion. We are talking about a measure that completes the perimeter of European programming, therefore a fundamental perimeter (with over 30 billion euros) for the economic growth and the restart of our country. I say this with affection to my colleague Calandrini: I always have full respect for the prerogatives of the opposition, but you can oppose - I say it above all to the Brothers of Italy - without insulting the Government and the Italians. The Government at this stage is committed to a very important action for Italians, that is to return growth and hope, reduce inequalities, therefore give future to our country. You can oppose without insulting the Italians. Therefore, I believe that this important conversion measure complements first and foremost the scope of the implementation of the European strategy and the new face of Europe, which we believe must not be emerging, but must even become structural in order to overcome the Europe of constraints and of the Stability Pact, in order to build a Europe of growth and conversion into an ecological key, of the economy and of digitalization of the country. But above all we are faced with measures on investment of particular importance, so the work we have done, for example to commit part of the Development and Cohesion Fund, I consider valuable, an important first impact in the exercise of Parliament's central function. Thanks also to the willingness of Minister Carfagna, whom I want to stress, we have managed to indicate some priorities and some projects (700 million euros) that certainly, while respecting the prerogatives and partnership agreements and the role of the Regions (which nobody wants to fail), indicate some major central issues. Some of my colleagues have already referred to them, so I quote only a few briefly: for example, the important project that concerns the Po Valley, to combat pollution that brings us European sanctions with enormous costs for the country among which there are improper costs for health and public finance. Sanctions are resources that are taken away from investment in education and health. It is therefore necessary to counter and address the issues of this area so important for the country, to generate less emissions into the atmosphere and to start this area towards green processes, of environmental regeneration and energy. There is a second important project that we have all supported together and which concerns intervention in the Adriatic basin, especially on the wind, energy from renewable sources, the transformation of platforms towards ecological conversion of the economy. I believe that this is a very important signal given by a country that embraces the future and rejects the idea of resistance and that is the environment as a constraint to renewable sources. I believe that all this is a signal of great attention to the priorities of the PNRR, which qualifies Parliament and has arrived in this House - I think for the first time - on such a broad economic measure without the vote of confidence, I attribute it to a good page in the relations between politics and the Government, between Parliament and the Government. The Democratic Party wanted to make an important contribution especially on these issues. Finally, I ask the Government to respect the commitments made on the agendas approved by the Commissions because there are important indications from Parliament that, in line with the return of centrality to Parliament, they must be adopted. [[Applause]] There are important issues concerning young women, energy bonuses, superbonus and more, industrial areas to be retrained; on them there is the commitment of the government, that we hope it will be fully respected in the next steps and we also hope that the issues of earthquake and other urban areas will be fully implemented. The Democratic Party Group will therefore vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u77	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to declare the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group on the measure. I give my speech to the Presidency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the President of the Budget Commission who spoke in this House, thanking all the members of the Commission for their work. A work that has sometimes also been hard in political confrontation, but which today brings to the House a measure that has in its characteristics the quality of the political proposal. It was, in my opinion, an important element on which we too, as a Parliamentary Group of Forza Italia, fought. The quality of the political proposal, which we are all presenting in this House, is shown by the 700 million euro amendment for which, thanks to the cooperation within the Government of the Minister for the South and territorial cohesion, Mr Mara Carfagna, resources have finally been found to be pre-allocated. On what seemed like an armored and immovable measure, devoid of resources, thanks to the action of Minister Carfagna we managed to unlock important resources [[Applause]] to obtain measures concerning the national interconnection network of education, the transformation of offshore energy poles in the Adriatic, the question that concerns one of the proposals of Forza Italia, that is to say the investments aimed at the urban recovery of the so-called medium-large cities, the provincial capital cities or the cities that range from 50,000 to 250,000 inhabitants. They are therefore important resources for our territories. We still think about improving the air quality of the Po Valley, strengthening the nodes and railway connections in South Italy, the issues of judicial construction and the overcrowding of prisons, which is also an important problem. It is therefore 700 million euros of investments for our country. This is an absolutely important result which we strongly reiterate in this House. It is clear that what we are experiencing at this particular moment is a challenge for our country: the exit from the current serious economic crisis with important measures, such as the one under discussion, which totals over 30 billion euros, which can be immediately spent and which do not have the conditionality of the PNRR. Also in that case Italy's challenge today is on reforms, which are important: it is a challenge that we must seize as the leading class of the country and we, as Parliamentary Group of Forza Italia, have been doing so for many weeks, because we are committed to what must be the battle of battles: the tax reform that the country has been waiting for years and for some time. [[Applause]] It is a battle that I call on the whole of Parliament to do as soon as possible, because the citizens need it. We will come out of this crisis today only by allowing our families and our companies to recover purchasing power and therefore, above all, to restart our economy. This is the challenge of the future, this is the challenge of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u80	Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in these few minutes let me begin by thanking the entire Budget Commission for the work it has done, my colleagues, officials and all the offices. A special thanks goes to the Government for the work done all together, as well as to Donatella Conzatti and Erica Rivolta, the two rapporteurs. These moments in the 5th Commission are always hard, but then you can finally find the square. We all have many expectations related to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. These resources will come from Europe, provided that Italy is able to implement important reforms. Subject to compliance with the timetable proposed by the Government to Europe, the supplementary fund refers to new debt issues, financed with the last deviation (it is 30 billion more than the 191.5 billion expected by Europe). Of course, we will have to know how to be fast and efficient. Parliament's work, as I said, has, however, been tiring, sometimes linked to complicated Group logic, but in reality what Italy needs is speed, simplification and seriousness on the part of all of us. That is what we have tried to do in the Budget Committee these days. The amendments and suggestions for improvement were shared by the Groups and accepted and worked with the strong commitment of the Government. I would like to remind you here of some interventions on which we have been able to contribute, with important topics such as road safety, maintenance of bridges, resources for tourism, wind power plants, renewable energies off the Adriatic Sea, for air quality in the Po Valley. There are so many proposals that were then accepted as agendas, which must not remain a dead letter. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of the proposals on ecobonus of 11%. This is a measure, an important opportunity to renew the real estate of Italy, aimed at energy efficiency in the perspective of the ecological transition. It is important, therefore, that the Government grasps the ideas proposed by our Group to extend the measure to 2023, a measure already announced for the next budget law, but here strengthened and required in our amendments transformed on the agenda, because it is absolutely important to give security to the operators in the sector and to those who intend to use this measure. [[Applause.]] With regard to the question of the implementation of the measures, we have also drawn up proposals to address the problem of raw material costs. This is an issue that I personally have been keeping under observation since the beginning of the year, of which the Government must be congenial. We therefore need to carry out the projects, but due to the shortage of raw materials and the consequent increase in prices, there is a risk that work will be stopped and that some important measures already planned will not even start. That is why we call on the Government, with amendments on the agenda, to put in place solutions to remedy this particular problem. Colleagues, this complementary fund must serve, as the name says, to complement the funds provided for the recovery plan, to be able to finance the overall design of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but I still want to remember that in the face of this fund, which is an immediate public debt, the 191.5 billion expected by Europe is conditioned, so we will have to be fast and efficient and that is the commitment that we all have to bear in mind. It is with these considerations that I end my speech and announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Party of Sardinian Action Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u83	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, we are dealing with the supplementary fund, which is a very important measure, which has a budget of 30 billion, resources that will be used in the real economy for investment and to build a fairer and more sustainable future. As its own title says, it is a complementary fund to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan that to date for Italy amounts to a total of 235 billion until 2026. I would like to stress and reiterate that without the commitment made in Europe by the Government of Count II and its President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte, whom we have supported firmly and loyally throughout his term of office, this result would never have been achieved and therefore we are particularly proud of it. The measure contains many very important interventions, the superbonus is further financed by 4.5 billion and an extension of its validity until 30 June 2023 for the Autonomous Public Housing Institutes (IACP), for public housing and 31 December 2022 for common-part condominiums. As representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars, of course, we have said on all occasions that we want this measure to be extended further, because it has demonstrated its effects on the real economy and therefore, from our point of view, we should approve this extension as soon as possible, perhaps not waiting for the budget law. Further funding was allocated to the Transition 4.0 plan, which was further funded by 5 billion. Infrastructure measures are also planned, for example on high speed, on Salerno-Reggio Calabria; the Fund for Development and Cohesion has been refinanced for 15.5 billion and new funds are allocated for the earthquake of Abruzzo and Central Italy. There are other equally important interventions, such as electrification of the docks of our ports. It is not expected - and it is something that as Movimento 5 Stars we regret and respect to which we hope to arrive at a turning point - the cedibility of tax credits with regard to Transition 4.0. It is a rule that we believe is very fundamental to give companies breath and liquidity and to get to what we have called superbonus companies. This is what the entire parliamentary arc asks, which has been attached - and we are delighted - to the battle and demand of the 5 Star Movimento, but above all all all the main business associations such as Confindustria, Confagricoltura, the CIA, Confapi, Copatri, ABI and Coldiretti ask us to name just a few. We, as convinced proposers of this measure, will fight until it becomes a rule of the state and it will certainly not be for Eurostat or for the opinion of a European bureaucrat, whose, however, respectable doubts come, perhaps, from those who have not yet understood that the post-pandemic world has changed forever and will no longer return the same. It will certainly not be this opinion that will stop us or stop an entire country, that just wants to work, to regain confidence, to recover, to return big and to plan a better, fairer and more inclusive future. We must continue on the path of courage and innovation, both in the economic and financial fields and in the political fields. We owe it to the citizens, we owe it to an entire society that has suffered in an incredible way in these last long months of pandemics. For all these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the conversion into law of this decree-law by the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u85	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u86	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I have to say that there have been great words of re-launch and hope. I am pleased, but the problem is that, in the context of all these measures, sometimes someone's diabolical hand gets stuck, which erases the dreams of filming. In the PNRR, on page 58, there are two lines that alone constitute an announced social bomb. In fact, on page 58 it is written that: "the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure are repealed" and the laws referring to the executive formula. Among other things, this is a step change compared to the previous project, in which it was written: it is proposed to repeal it, instead, on page 58 of the PNRR, it is already licensed to repeal it. This seems to me so much a writing inspired by the banking system, which risks not only putting under threat the families subject to real estate auction, but also, once again, to make us return to a situation that, with the first government, we had somehow fixed with the famous Bramini law. I therefore do not understand the spirit of this reform of the code of civil procedure, in the name of speed. It seems to me that everything is inspired by a banking system. I see that now someone has realized that those who will maintain the suspension of the installments risk a reclassification to scandals which, in fact, is a first step before the alert to the central risks to be included in the problematic credit category. I also report today's article, published by "Il Fatto Quotidiano", which resumes "Il Sole 24 Ore" yesterday: "MPS," a billion from the state in Axa, which is French. All the words of trust and hope are good, but let us be careful, because we are building a building in which the real economy and families risk being threatened by the banking and financial system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u87	We now come to the examination of the coordination proposal C1, which I would ask the rapporteurs to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u88	Mr President, we propose that the proposal for coordination C1 be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u89	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the coordination proposal C1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 59 of 6 May 2021 concerning urgent measures relating to the Fund supplementary to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and other urgent measures for investments" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I therefore suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u90	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Public Administration and the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Sbrollini has the right to explain the question 3-02620 on the removal of architectural barriers from places of culture and cultural promotion initiatives through the PNRR, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u91	Minister Franceschini, in the question that we have presented as the Italian Group Viva-PSI we want to focus on one of the sectors that has been hit hardest by the emergency Covid, in particular culture and tourism. We do not need to mention here the strategic importance of these two areas. Just think - to get an idea - that tourism has a value of about 12 of the national GDP. We know that culture and tourism are one of the key areas of the PNRR. And we also know that investments of almost EUR 7 billion are planned, also aimed at increasing the level of attractiveness of these sectors through the modernisation of tangible and intangible infrastructure, as well as an allocation of EUR 300 million for actions to remove physical and cognitive barriers. Such an intervention certainly goes in the right direction, but we think that it is not yet entirely sufficient, looking only at the numbers - for example - of people with disabilities in Italy, which are more than three million. We therefore believe - and this is the point of the question we have proposed - that we need to intervene even more incisively, widely and widely in favour of the removal of architectural barriers in places where culture and tourism are used. At the same time, we believe that it is necessary to provide support and promotion for the workers of the show, in order to restore and protect this sector which has not yet found adequate recognition in the PNRR. We hope that - also from the answer that the Minister will give us today - we can be even more proactive towards a sector really important for the recovery of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u92	The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u93	The question presented by Senator Sbrollini raises a very important issue. As he recalled, in the preparation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, precisely in order to allow wider access of citizens in the places of culture, the Ministry has foreseen an appropriation of 300,000 million euros aimed at overcoming the architectural barriers sense-perceptive, cultural and cognitive, and strengthening the skills of the operators. The presence of architectural barriers is in fact still a very strong criticality in the places of Italian culture, as was highlighted by the Istat annual report on museums of December 2019. Only 53 percent of museums, monuments, archaeological areas and state and non-state parks have improved their structures, removing physical barriers; only 12 percent have overcome the criticalities related to perceptive, cultural and cognitive barriers. The investment of the PNRR is therefore directed primarily to the state cultural sites located throughout the national territory, while a quota, which can be discussed - we are discussing this own with the Regions - that in the indications of the card is equal to 10%, but may increase, is destined to regional, provincial and civic museums, managed by public bodies or non-profit organizations. Even through this intervention it is expected to be possible to overcome architectural barriers in 80% of museums, archaeological areas and parks and sensory-perceptive barriers in 50% of the same structures. This obviously contributes to overcoming inequalities and gaps that prevent all citizens from fully participating in the cultural life of their territory. In this sense, I very much welcome the invitation of the senator to support, through new measures, the removal of barriers in other places of culture other than museums. We will work with both the resources provided by PNRR and the ordinary resources, because of course the need for this type of intervention does not end with the use of the resources of the PNRR. In addition, with regard to support for music bands and music, I recall that the ministerial decrees of 2020-2021 recognized refreshments in their favour, considering eligible, among others, also the costs incurred for the purchase of musical materials and instruments, as well as sheet music, legged and divided. So it is a novelty that we will continue to work on, because it is an area that absolutely deserves the widest recognition.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u94	I have the power to respond to Senator Sbrollini for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u95	Minister, on behalf of the Group I represent (Italy Viva-PSI), thank you for your reply. I know how much you're working in that direction. We hope that, also through this further solicitation, we can improve the level of accessibility to the places of culture and tourism - as you have rightly just highlighted - including also investments in musical instruments and measures of support and promotion for the workers of the live show, in order to protect this sector, which - as I said at the beginning - has not yet found an adequate recognition in the PNRR. Without any claim of exhaustiveness, I would like to dedicate a few minutes to this important sector, because we are really inaugurating a different page with the reopenings; finally we can have some relief for the people who have really suffered very much. These days theaters, museums and cinemas are reopening. We hope, therefore, that even more precise indications can be given in the near future as regards capacity. I end by saying, through a book that has just come out ('Lucean the stars' by Stefania Sandrelli and Alberto Veronesi), that there is a manifesto of the workers of the show that goes precisely in the direction of greater protection and greater support for such an important sector. Thank you, Minister, and I am pleased with the answer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u96	Senator Ruspandini has the right to explain the question 3-02615 on the new digital platform of Itsart culture, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u97	Minister, on 31 May we recorded the debut of the digital platform Itsart, which you strongly wanted: an ambitious project, widely shared, which aims to spread and represent Italian culture in Italy and especially in the world; a project that a nation like Italy must have and that honestly found in us also some convergences (absolutely yes). Of course, we would have expected a more evocative name, a name that took into account the millenarian tradition of Italy and not the usual copy-paste, the usual tribute to be paid to the politically correct and the provincialism esterophile of which unfortunately all too often our nation tends to dress in some way. But that is not only the problem; that is the last of the problems. The biggest problem is the one that is certified as a real failure of his project. And I don't say it, but the newspapers friends of his party say it; all those who expected something more at both communicative and substantial level say it. My question is as follows: couldn't the approximately 20 million euros of public money that the Ministry of Culture and Cassa deposits and loans invested in the project be used to upgrade Raiplay or be used to performers who haven't received a euro for almost two years? Minister, on this I would like an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u98	The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u99	Mr President, as Senator Ruspandini knows, the platform called Itsart stems from a rule of law which Parliament has approved and which is contained in Article 183 of Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020. It starts from an idea that - as the senator himself recognized - has its validity. During the pandemic period we verified that many of the activities that could not be done live have spontaneously gone to the sites of the various cultural institutions and theaters, having a very strong audience enlargement that temporarily replaced the presence in the hall. On this they have grafted themselves also in the last months of the experiences abroad of events that have moved directly live, but online. The choice was born from the idea of temporarily and transiently filling the phase of both the closure and partial reopenings with the numerical limitations that still characterize the opening of the theatres and cinemas; and this also to have a place that can offer Italy, Italians and the whole world the performances and live events that take place in Italy of various types (music, theatre, dance and cinema), integrating the live offer, which nobody thinks to replace. If it's called a live show, there's a reason; but it's obvious that we can get to a time when we go to see the first in La Scala on December 7th and, at the same time, on the other side of the world, buying tickets at a lower price, participating in that event, which La Scala has already anticipated with events in live cinemas in the past years. It is a technologically possible tool. From then on, as required by the rule, the management was entrusted to Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which chose the private partner and the name. It has done everything autonomously and it is right that politics does not interfere in the choice of content, nor in the tools available. Why talk about failure? I understand that there is a political debate and a certain rush in the press, but talking about failure and flop - as I have read - a week after the departure is really a bit strange. Clearly, it is a mechanism that will grow. The numbers that the company has given me at the moment are as follows: 400,000 accesses to the platform, 35,000 registered users, 120 streaming on the contents in the catalog that are more than 700. Of course it is a platform that must grow, because the invitation to all cultural institutions is to offer and put on the platform for sale to have revenue for their budgets, helping at the same time the institutions and offering a place where in Italy and abroad there will be the possibility to access the contents of the Italian cultural offer. I would invite - I don't worry about it any more, because I was also in the opposition - to wait before talking about flop. It is a mechanism that is growing week after week; the numbers of inserted content and users are growing. We'll see where he goes. I believe it is an experiment that has been right to do and that will give a great opportunity to promote Italian culture in the world. I don't want to be obmissive. From the beginning, they tried to involve RAI. We have also considered this in the Supervisory Committee. In these hours there are contacts between RAI and the company that manages the Itsart platform in order to create forms of collaboration that RAI itself has considered autonomously not manageable in that form, because it sells only its own content and not produced by others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Ruspandini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u100	Mr Minister, there must have been some small short circuit, if they are true - as they really are - the words - which I quote and read - of illustrious analysts of the issue who in all the newspapers, especially those on the left, paint this intuition as truly disastrous. I repeat that probably this short circuit has somehow widened the protest of those who are not in a position to work today. In the end, Minister, these are problems which you know very well. I am referring to the sector that we are talking about and that today, especially in its weakest elements, records empty theatres and piazza shows that cannot be performed. Perhaps it would have been expected, since we are also talking about public money, a different intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u101	Senator De Bonis has the power to illustrate the question 3-02618 on the museum dedicated to Cesare Lombroso in Turin, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u102	Mr President, Minister, the Lombroso is called the father of criminal psychology, despite the fact that science (not only posthumous, but also contemporary) has declared all its theories unfounded, calling them pseudoscientific. Andrea Verga miserably defeated him on the famous occipital dimple on which Lombroso founded his theories. He never answered him, so much so that he was kicked out of the Society of Anthropology in 1882. Lombroso's conviction was based in particular on the thesis of the delinquent man, born atavico; in short, the delinquent by nature, an individual who would bring in the physical structure the degenerative characters that differentiate him from the normal man. I quote only two passages from Lombroso to show what his ideas were about the southern: The southern doesn't like liquor: he feels drunk from birth: the sun, the wind, distil a terrible natural alcohol, of which all those born down there feel the effects. Regarding the southern regions of Italy, he said: The weakness of Italy is in the knees, it is at the legs, at the feet; evil, the true deep evil is here. I call on you to consider the following. The European Union rejects the theories that attempt to demonstrate the existence of distinct human races. In Turin the museum of criminal anthropology dedicated to Lombroso, which theorized - precisely - the presence of two races; on the site of the museum we read that the new setup wants to provide the visitor with conceptual tools to understand how and why this controversial character formulated the theory of criminal atavism. The museum was conceived with an educational function intended to show how the construction of scientific knowledge is a process that advances thanks to the demonstration not so much of truth, but of the falsifiability of data and theories that do not resist a criticism. To date, the museum does not seem to fulfill its function and conveys a wrong message about what science is. Those of Lombroso were not scientific errors, but real pseudoscientific manipulations made in bad faith for interests unrelated to science and his theories were functional to a propaganda of power. The museum doesn't know about this. I have visited you, together with a delegation, and I therefore ask the Minister to intervene and take steps to put an end to this matter and also to satisfy the desire to protect pietas against human remains which have been returned throughout Europe in connection with similar events. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u103	Mr President - as Senator De Bonis recalled - the museum, which is owned by the University of Turin and not by the State, exhibits collections mainly collected for studies by the physician, criminologist and anthropologist Cesare Lombroso from the second half of the nineteenth century to the beginning of the twentieth century. They are heterogeneous collections composed of skulls, skeletons, drawings, crime bodies, handicraft productions, etc. After several locations, in 2001 it was hosted in the Palazzo degli Istituto anatomici in the context of the pole dedicated to Turin's scientific positivism. Lombroso is known for his theories in the context of positivist science and his work, although rightly rejected by scholars today, constitutes a part of the development of physical anthropology. The museum intends to explain the process that led Lombroso to the development of his theories in the area of criminal atavism, highlighting the unfoundedness of his scientific methods. Today's set-up has as its objective not what it had at its origin, but far from it, that is, to make known the thought of Lombroso dropped in the period in which he lived, explaining the historical and cultural reasons and demonstrating the absolute unfoundedness of physiological prejudice - on the one hand - and - on the other hand - how science proceeds precisely through errors and corrections. The role that the museum proposes is therefore to explain to the public a controversial part of scientific thought, which inevitably collides with the current social sensitivity, preserving the memory in a critical way. Finally, I would like to remind you that the ethics committee of the International Organization of Museums (ICOM), requested by the Committee no Lombroso, has already reviewed in the past all the documents concerning the museum of criminal anthropology, sharing the portion of ICOM Italy that has emphasized how the museum respects the scientific and educational standards in order to remain open. Therefore, the closing reply is negative. Even if I wanted to, I can't close the museum. But if I could, I wouldn't do it because my job is to open museums and not close them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Bonis to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u104	Minister, of course, your answer does not satisfy us because there can be no nation in which the process of memory is not subject to the canons of scientific and even historical truth. All the inaccuracies made by this pseudoscientist are not easily derived from a visit to the museum, which in the collective imagination still conveys the idea of racial inferiority to the southern peoples who do not deserve such treatment. Above all, with regard to the scientific method, of which there is also mention in some panel, it must be said that it consists not only in error and correction, but in error and correction while having applied the canons of experimental logic. We are therefore faced with a person whom scientists had already defined not to be a scientist, and therefore the whole community had rejected him. In the alternative, it could be assumed that the museum would be converted. In Turin there is a museum of anthropology that is closed and could be valued, rather than continuing to keep alive a museum that is the equivalent of Mengele and note that in Auschwitz there is no museum on Mengele.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u105	Senator Cangini has the right to explain the question 3-02619 on the reconstitution and valorization of the dance bodies of the lyric-symphonic foundations, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u106	Minister of Culture, like opera music, classical ballet is one of the main reasons for Italy's popularity in the world. We have invented both forms of artistic expression and have honored them over time, offering to the stages of the planet the best international talents, both in the melodrama and in the classical ballet. And this is good for us, because it has helped to feed and improve Italy's international reputation at a historic stage in which reputation is almost everything - I sincerely believe - also contributing to the use of tourism and exports. However, Minister, we have a problem: of the 14 lyrical-symphonic foundations of the country, only four have kept their dancing bodies; the other ten have had to release them, and certainly not for artistic reasons, but for obvious budgetary issues to reduce costs. However, there are intangible costs that have risen accordingly and that are paid daily by the best artists, by the best talents of Italian dance, forced to accept engagements abroad because they are unable to do the same in Homeland. They are costs that the country system pays, which consequently risks losing its primacy. All this is even more paradoxical taking into account that as never before dance, dancing is popular. I believe that much of the credit should be attributed to the talent TV shows, and then they too are well-suited. We have about 30,000 dance schools in Italy involving from the two three million boys. This is an activity that must be supported concretely and fiscally; it must be promoted because it encourages in the younger ones those virtues that the spirit of times inevitably discourages and, therefore, physical activity, regulates the sense of duty, the ethics of sacrifice, grace. Therefore, Minister, Forza Italia asks you really strongly to put the restoration of the dancing bodies in the lyrical-symphonic foundations at the heart of the reformative action in the entertainment sector and consequently to restore or at least encourage those that we once called lyric bodies to take back their institutional functions from the name, calling accordingly the foundations in lyrics, symphonics and ballet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u107	Mr President, I share the spirit of the interrogators, because I really believe in the strength of Italian dance and the thousands and thousands of girls and boys who practice it daily, given the quantity of dance schools and the great international tradition that emerged with the recent disappearance of Carla Fracci. This is an area on which we absolutely must invest. As you know, we have intervened on the workers of the show both with emergency measures in the decree-law support, and with measures - which we had announced - of transposing the indication of a related bill on entertainment, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers and which will now come to Parliament for approval. That is the home where parliamentarians will be able to make these reflections together with the Government, and the Government will support them. In particular, with specific reference to the bodies of dance, I remember that the legislation in this matter, attributing to the lyrical-symphonic foundations the production of show and also of ballet, does not require that they make mandatory use of their own body of dance. This is therefore put back to the evaluation of the directors who, with the economic and financial crisis that has led in recent years to the commissioning of ten theatres and to the comparison with the trade unions, have to consider individually the opportunity to establish new bodies of dance. In this sense, in February last, following the adoption of the interministerial decree that provides for the type of organic endowment of the lyric-symphonic foundations, each foundation was invited to formulate a proposal of organic endowment to be transmitted to the vigilant ministries, after resolution of the Governing Board (obviously heard the unions and organizations). This proposal must be accompanied by appropriate documentation demonstrating economic and financial sustainability, adequate levels of ownership production and the number of fixed-term employment contracts covering a two-year period. It is clear that, in this context which must respect financial compatibility, there is a space that I believe we should use in the debate on the related draft law - including the theme of the name in the foundations - which, moreover, will come to the Senate at first reading. This will allow us to establish criteria that, even without reaching the obligation - it is a bit difficult to establish the obligatoryness of the dance body - provide incentives or support for lyrical-symphonic foundations, and the latter will make the choice to keep a dance body within their activities. We are therefore very ready to work on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u108	I give the floor to Senator Cangini to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u109	Mr President, I must honestly say that I am very satisfied, because it is clear that no one wants to force anyone, but we know very well that the public administration can encourage, for example by sharing properly and integrating the funds of the FUS, that all or almost the lyrical-symphonic foundations should be encouraged to equip themselves with the dancing bodies that they once had and that they no longer have. I consider that a political-legislative process is underway today in order to achieve this objective which I believe can be defined as common. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u110	Senator Biti has the right to explain the question 3-02617 on the criteria for the pre-election of public competitions, starting from the current South competition, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u111	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his willingness to respond to the question that our Group has put in order to enable the Government to explain itself and to say the good things it is doing with regard to the competition for new recruitments in the public administration, and to enable us Members of Parliament to understand and clarify a strategic issue for us, such as the issue of recruitments in the public administration. A period of structural reforms is inaugurated, especially with the PNRR and for the PNRR, which we hope will make a qualitative leap, which has been expected for years, to the state machine. This is a strategic opportunity for us that we believe the Government has immediately taken on board in this regard too. Having a renewed and efficient public administration is essential to overcome also the challenge of the PNRR in the management of those important resources that will then have to be deployed in the territories. We, in fact, welcome the Government that has immediately chosen to spend itself in this sense also with the competition, which is the theme of today's question time. A competition called the South because it was mainly interested in the Southern regions for the first time fast recruitment - and this is also appreciable, because fast track is a new thing - to try to hire staff as quickly as possible and in the best possible way. These are 2,800 profiles to strengthen the administrative capacity of different local and territorial authorities of the South Regions, also in order to better manage European projects. They've been involved in a lot of people. More than 81,000 people submitted the application, having the requisites; 8,000 and more were admitted, although unfortunately only one third of them then came to the test, less than the number they had thought to hire. This has in fact determined the immediate reopening of the competition, overcoming and effectively eliminating the limits for admission. This could perhaps create an unfair situation compared to those who did not even ask the question: we ask you, Minister, because primarily you and all of us want to ensure that the 2,800 technical profiles are made available to the local authorities, with the necessary response also to the selective and qualified criteria. We therefore ask you how you intend to do this, whether you think that corrective measures should be taken in some way and what they should be, in order to ensure that such incidents do not happen again, also because we are all working together with you - and that is why we are counting on us too - to increase confidence in public administration, because that must be the case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u112	The Minister for Public Administration, Mr Brunetta, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u113	Thank you, Senator Biti, for your tone, attitude and constructive spirit. With the same constructive spirit I allow myself to correct it: not a third of those who submitted the application participated, but two thirds, a relatively low number - for some profiles even lower, that is half - but not too uneven compared to other competitions, such as those that are taking place at this time for the Municipality of Rome. This is a first point. Second point. The South competition for 2,800 profiles was wanted by the previous Government, carried out by the previous Minister with guidelines, provided by the budget law for 2021. As a Dragon Government, we resumed it without any change to speed up the introduction of these specialised professional profiles, because these were the indications of the budget law for 2021, in order to give specialists, especially in Community funds, to the Southern administrations. All this led to a ban respectful of the standard system and to the numbers you said, Senator, with a result to be assessed relatively low. What we have done, precisely to honour the 2,800 profiles envisaged, that is to allow the administration to have 2,800 specialists, has been to expand the audience, without any change in mode, selectivity and quality, also to have a surplus of winners on which to rely for the expansions always for the public administrations. I would add that in the last recruitment decree, which this House will see in the coming weeks, there is a rule, aimed specifically at the PNRR, which also provides for the sliding of rankings precisely to strengthen local administrations in relation to the PNRR profiles. I remember, first of all to myself, that this is a special competition, for special profiles, for a special area like the South, which is usually not provided for by public competitions, dedicated to the South for obviously understandable reasons. As far as young people are concerned, it has absolutely nothing to do with it, because in the norm that this Assembly itself amended, in Article 10 of Decree-Law No 44 of 2021, it is expected that standard profiles should not be used for titles, but for special profiles because if you require a specialist professionalism, it is clear that a new graduate cannot have it, with its experience. For my part, I offer the maximum guarantee - but the law already provides it - to protect young people, compared to competitions with standard profiles without special needs, but at the same time also professionalism. We will have to make a qualitative leap that is expected in Europe, so even time contracts can be attractive to qualified professionals, just to have an adequate experience in the public administration. However, I remain at your disposal to explain this revolution that is underway, with digitization and with the reduction of the timing, because even with this change everything will end in a hundred days compared to the four years of average of the past. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u114	I give the floor to Senator Biti to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u115	Minister, that is precisely what the question time is for, to clarify: in this case, the question we have asked you has clarified to me personally and to the whole of our Group a question that you have now explained to us. Thank you, therefore, for your further explanation of this competition and also for your availability, of which we will not fail to take advantage if there is the need. I hope that we can all agree, however, that public authorities, especially local authorities, and in our view even the smallest municipalities, really need a great injection of strength, especially young people. The Democratic Party has also tabled amendments, which for now have never been successful, but in which it believes a lot, in order to ensure that there are recruitments in small municipalities, especially in the design offices, which are fundamental in order not to lose resources. On the one hand, we are all rightly grateful for the resources that come, but on the other we know that the priority is not to lose them; so that this does not happen, we need strong local authorities, who have structures that can work especially on European projects. We trust that we are fully in line with this and that we can also work together to enable our municipalities and local authorities to get the most out of it, without any dispersal of resources. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u116	Senator Mantovani has the right to explain the question 3-02616 on how to conduct the competition for the recruitment of technicians for the public administrations of the Mezzogiorno, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u117	Egregio Minister for Public Administration, has recently carried out the written test of the public competition for the recruitment of 2,800 technicians for the public administrations of the regions of the South, banned pursuant to Decree-Law No 44 of 2021. The competition procedure provided for in the notice is divided into two phases: the pre-selection for titles and professional experience, distinct for the different profiles of the competition and aimed at admission to the written test, and the second phase, which provides for a single selective written test, even if distinct for the different profiles. This new type of competition procedure, which provides for the entry pre-selection through evaluation of the titles and professional experiences possessed by the candidate, has been strongly criticized above all by the Movimento 5 Stars during the parliamentary examination of the measure and consequently modified in the text of the decree converted into law, regarding the upcoming competitive procedures to be carried out. However, it was not possible to implement this amendment to competitions already launched, such as the one in question. This method of recruitment has therefore certainly penalized young graduates with less economic opportunities than those who have more qualifications and professional qualifications. The competition saw a high lack of participation in the written test and this led the department of the civil service, in the absolute need to guarantee the public interest to see all the 2,800 positions sought, to cancel the barrier threshold for participation in the written test and to admit the other 70,000 candidates, that is 90% of those who had submitted the application, that had already been discarded in the pre-elective phase. In conclusion, the line of the elimination of the pre-elective phase for securities was chosen, the same supported by our Group and which was adopted when the decree-law was converted. However, those who had not submitted the application were excluded from the competition, discouraged exclusively by the new rules, because they were aware that they could not count on specialized training and previous professional experience. I would therefore ask you, Minister, what is the assessment of these facts; what is the number of requests received and the number of persons actually submitted to support the written evidence; whether you do not consider that the pre-selection requirements in the notice have not been properly proportionate to the bandit profiles; whether you do not believe that the bandit profiles have not been placed at a level of remuneration appropriate to those functions and that this has led to the high rate of renunciation of participation in the written test.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u118	The Minister for Public Administration, Mr Brunetta, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u119	Mr President, as with the previous question, I have also prepared a written text, which I shall leave to the documents, which will be more precise than my reply, but I would prefer to respond in person. Senator Mantovani, the competition for the recruitment of technicians for the public administrations of the Mezzogiorno is special, born from your Government, the so-called yellow-red (among other things with the very good minister Provenzano and with a department that is the current one, because the continuity of the administration is a positive fact), that we have taken as it was. It was a special competition, for special profiles, to equip the local authorities of the South with special professionalism. It therefore required special profiles, not for new graduates even with three-year degrees (as required by the law), but for people with experience and skills specialties. That was the nature of that contest. Article 10 of Decree-Law No 44 of 2021, of which we have discussed, which innovates, digitizes and speeds up competitions, expressly provides for a double route that - as I said before to the senator - distinguishes between standard profiles, in which of course the specializations do not count (because, if the place put to competition is standard, does not require specializations), and profiles (and it was an amendment proper of the Senate to foresee it) with characteristics of technical specialties, for which instead, of course, an evaluation of the titles is necessary, as in the case of the South competition. Therefore, what has been done, because of the relatively low participation and the need for coverage of the 2,800 positions, has been to expand the audience of the admitted (it will be extended next week, because we are still in competition, so let's see), that they had the titles, in order to be able not only to cover the needs, but - as I told the previous speaker - given the recruitment decree that will arrive in this House next week, also to slide further the ranking, starting from this competition, in order to equip the administrations of the South of these particular profiles. The nodal point, on which we have so much discussed and which I would like to discuss even more, is the following: to contemplate the need of young people to have a social path and elevator from public competitions with that of those who, not being younger or new graduates, has however acquired legal titles, legally recognized, of professionalism, which should apply to special notices for special places. We should take this into account and Article 10 of Decree-Law No 44 of 2021 does so. For example, in Rome there is a competition for managers, but also for standard profiles, which applies the two characteristics. Therefore, I liked to reflect together, first of all, on the fact that a revolution is taking place: the competitions are all digital and this is an innovation that moves from the nineteenth century to modernity, because the competitions no longer take place with paper and pen, but they are all digital, with the written proof that simplifies and, when we are in a position, out of the pandemic, with an oral test; with the double evaluation, of the legally recognized titles, which serve as pre-selection, or with no evaluation, if the type of place put to competition is standard or general. This allows the two needs to be taken into account: those of those who have invested in training and those of those who have not yet been able to do so, because they are young. So, let's settle the two instances, giving the right signals: don't waste time with mnemonic training on memorized preselection quizzes, but invest in yourself, given the strictness of the competitive tests. This South competition is the last of a series, perhaps the first of another, and it will be good to reflect all on why, for example, in the South (but perhaps not only there), there is a lack of appeal of the public administration (it is a problem that I pose as an old professor). This is an example, but think about what will happen in the coming months, depending on the PNRR, when we look for tens of thousands of specific professionalism, which I fear we will not find. We will have to consider together how to recruit and evaluate, together with quality, but also the need for human capital for our local authorities. This is a problem that concerns everyone. We are in a transition from an old system to a new one, and we need the collective intelligence of all of us, namely Parliament, which is the only place where these issues can and must be discussed, precisely in order to meet the extraordinary and strategic needs of our country. So, thank you very much for this little reflection session. We will have a chance to discuss this next week, when the recruitment decree arrives in this House, since we will have this problem there multiplied by 100%. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u120	Senator Mantovani has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u121	Minister, thank you for your reply. I agree with you that the public administration has taken a step in renewing competitions. Therefore, I also agree with the way in which digitisation and procedural simplifications have been undertaken, which allow recruitment and response to recruitment needs in a much shorter time. This is one of the instances that the young people we have met and who have asked us have also posed. One of the questions is to ask the contest and receive the answer quickly. The question of the low attractiveness of public administration is a question that we must ask ourselves. That is precisely the question in the question, precisely because, precisely, if we ask for special profiles, we must also give special wages, and this did not occur with the competition, because probably the candidates, at the time of submission of the application, were not aware of the level of remuneration. If a candidate has professional experience and qualifications to assert, he also expects that perhaps the level of classification may be higher. We hope that there will be this reflection that will allow us to meet two needs: on the one hand, the entry of young people, because we also need young people who can enter as new graduates, receive a fast vocational training course and see themselves offered a career progression within the public administration; on the other hand, a path to effectively recruit the most advanced profiles. If we can get the two components together, I think we'll do a great job. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u122	Senator De Vecchis has the right to explain the question 3-02614 on the initiatives to reform the status of autonomy of Roma Capitale, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u123	Minister, the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, carried out, as you know, by Constitutional Law No 3 of 18 October 2021, introduced, in Article 114, the reference to the city of Rome as the capital of the Republic. In view of the local elections next October too, I think it is appropriate to reflect on the special powers of Rome Capital. That is why we are asking you today, Minister. Rome must become a capital worthy of this Europe equal to Berlin, Madrid, Vienna or Brussels, on the contrary, Washington - we broaden with examples - because it is the capital of culture not only European, but also world-wide. We are talking about 6,000 kilometers of archaeological sites that need to be managed constructively, independently, also to follow up three thousand years of history. That is why we ask you, Minister, what is the government's direction in order to reach the law that will make Rome more and more autonomous, with each independent town hall. That is our question: what is the Government doing to make Rome, once and for all, the most important capital in Europe? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u124	The Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Mr Gelmini, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u125	Mr President, the interrogating senators raise issues which are widely shared with respect to the need - but I would also say the urgency - to equip Rome with resources, powers and functions adapted to the role that this city plays, but also to the complexity of the problems and the vastness of the heritage of the city, recalling the configuration of this city as the cradle of Western civilization and also of Catholicism. These are aspects that make Rome an unicum not only from a national point of view. Article 114 of the Constitution, paragraph 3, speaks clearly: it entrusts to the law of the State the discipline of the legal order of the Capital. We must then note that, twenty years after the adoption of the reform of Title V, the implementation of this discipline has been somewhat incomplete, tormented and certainly not fully suitable for establishing an appropriate statute for Rome. Many issues remain unresolved: the availability of suitable funding, the modernisation of infrastructure, the theme of the suburbs, the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage, but also the reorganization of services of wide area. And then today, on the 150th anniversary of the proclamation of Rome as the capital of Italy, there are reasons that make the need to resume this journey even more stringent and not postponeable. I address two issues: on the one hand, the approval of the National Plan that Europe has made available, whose measures can and must be declined in implementation in order to intercept the needs and demands of the Capital; on the other hand, a much awaited appointment, such as that of the Jubilee of 2025. The Government is fully aware of these issues and needs; the regulatory intervention we have in mind can only be multidimensional and therefore concern institutional architecture, powers and resources. This intervention will certainly have to align Rome with other capitals, all invariably endowed with special statutes and powers. In this perspective, we have set up a commission at the Ministry over the weeks, chaired by Professor Marini, with the task of analyzing the scenarios of reform of the Rome Capital order, starting from the work carried out by the Chambers on proposals for parliamentary initiative. On this subject I hope and trust that there will be an important convergence with the work that Parliament is doing, in particular the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the House, where work is at a rather advanced stage (I have also had a speech with President Brescia). The point of this committee - I would like to point out - is certainly not to replace or bypass parliamentary activity; indeed it aspires to support and support it, with the aim of facilitating the necessary synthesis between the different positions, in order to arrive quickly at the solution technically more appropriate to meet the needs of Rome and the question that is being posed. The committee is working hard, bringing together multiple initiatives for constitutional reform, but also for ordinary reform in Parliament, and the valuable investigation already carried out through multiple hearings by the First Chamber Commission. There is a substantial sharing of the central points of a reformist intervention, which cannot but concern, even in implementation of Article 114 of the Constitution, the powers and material areas of the functions of Rome Capital, the mechanisms and institutions of institutional collaboration between the different levels of government, the role of municipalities, the forms and modalities of allocation of resources. The committee has given itself a deadline; by the end of the month I hope to be able to explain the conclusions and therefore the proposal to reform capital governance. The climate of concord and the determination of the First Chamber Commission justify a reasonable optimism on the following. The Government, while respecting the prerogatives of the Chambers, will monitor the developments of the works, hoping for a definition as quickly as possible and of course reserve the right to evaluate any further initiative that can accelerate the process of reform and broaden its horizons. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Vecchis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u126	Mr President, Minister, I must apologise, I made a mistake: the constitutional law I mentioned earlier is of 18 October 2001, not 2021, as I wrongly said. It will be the rush to arrive in October, to free Rome from the ill-management of recent years. [[Applause]] Excuse me, but Rome must be freed, so I went ahead with the times; forgive me, but Rome really deserves another administrative management. Returning to the question, I am very satisfied, because our dream is to bring the European Culture Agency to Rome. Rome must become, even if it is morally, the capital of European culture. The Jubilee of 2025 is also the right opportunity to relaunch it not only from the economic point of view, but also from the point of view of tourism, also religious, since Rome is also the capital of Christianity and Catholicism. We will be at your side to carry this project forward, because Rome deserves much more; Rome is much more. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u127	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u130	MAGORNO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators and government, the images of the accident of the Stresa-Mottarone cable car are breathtaking and really hurt, especially to the families of the 14 victims, who are no longer there. The tragedy of May 23 has shocked everyone and now those same victims are further the subject of a journalistic jackal that tramples on their memory and offends the deep suffering of their loved ones. The right to report cannot enter into the pain of people. What we are witnessing is a type of macabre and unscrupulous journalism, which goes beyond all boundaries and logic. Real journalism is far from being the case. The real journalists are those who inform the citizens, without strong tones, speculations and exploitations. The sensationalism and gossip of the news at all costs are not journalism, but only an alternative way of making a show, a real media circus, cynical and cruel, which totally lacks respect, common sense and sensitivity. On what happened, I tabled a parliamentary question with the chairman of my group, Senator Pharaoh. However, a serious and radical reform of the public service is needed at once. This is the only way to guarantee citizens information worthy of this name. Meanwhile, those who have transmitted the images of those dramatic moments are ashamed and apologize.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u133	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the National Association Victims of Moroccans is a non-profit partnership composed of free journalists, researchers, historians and writers who for years have been studying specific events in Sicily, Campania, Lazio and Tuscany, where men and women suffered inexhaustible violence by French colonial troops, the so-called goumiers. The national tragedy has passed into history with the Moroccan term, which someone still does not know or want to recognize. The intention of the association is precisely to promote the memory of history, so that all errors and horrors are condemned and never repeated again. Unfortunately, it is clear that the free work of historians is regarded as an annoying and inappropriate commitment, because it has political connotations. The Moroccan term is not understood as racist: it was already in use in 1946, so the only word must not disturb the hypocritical and ignorant sensibility. Thus, Friday, June 11, 2021, in Milan, in the municipal council hall, the association had organized one of the many conferences entitled "Marocchinate": the hidden history, led to the presence not of politicians, but of Emiliano Ciotti, president of the Association victims of Moroccans, of Alessandra Colla, writer and historian, and of the moderator Lorenzo Cafarchio, of the Edizioni Altaforte. Mayor Sala, with a post on social media, defined the public meeting as unnecessarily provocative. The story is a serious thing: to use it for provocations with the taste of racism... It is something that Milan and the Milanese cannot accept. Of course, the post was amplified by various political leaders, such as the PD leader in the Municipality, who said: The League, short of arguments for the election campaign, finds no better than to promote and support an event of clear racist significance. Another MP of the PD held the same event as racist propagandist scenery. In the end, the authorization already granted was withdrawn and the conference was cancelled. I would like to point out that Moroccans are not a political flag. I would like to point out that it is neither on the right nor on the left in front of a commemoration of victims, especially if blameless. I would also like to point out that it is the duty of every citizen and above all of the politician to honour innocent victims: 60,000 men, women, elderly, priests and children have been victims of derogatory and mortal sexual violence perpetrated by goumiers, killed even for trying to defend the lives of sisters, brides and mothers. This is history, which must be remembered without the bitter hypocrisy of wrong politics; anything else, because there is no better civilization than to commemorate together - right and left - the suffering of a people. In Sala I would say first of all to watch the 1957 film "La Ciociara" directed by De Sica, with Sophia Loren, taken from Moravia's novel of the same name. In Sala I say to change - if it succeeds - the term "marocchinate" if it offends its sensitivity. In Sala I say above all to apologize to Milan, to the Milanese and, for its ignorance, to all the innocent victims of a tragic historical past. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u136	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, on 14 August 2018 the Morandi bridge collapsed in Genoa, causing 43 victims, hundreds of displaced people and serious inconveniences for the city of Genoa, the whole of Liguria and the entire North-West of our country, as well as a damage to the image of Italy abroad. In these days, it is dangerously close to the conclusion of a transaction, with the aim of putting out the famous Benetton from the company Autostrade for Italy, through the purchase, by Cassa deposits and loans (which guides a cordata of investors who trust in the money that will come to them from tolls paid by the Italians), of the shares in possession of the company Atlantia (whose major shareholders are the famous Benetton brothers), equal to 88 percent of the total. The expenditure for this operation is EUR 21.9 billion. As I and other colleagues have pointed out in a number of questions (for which I would like to ask for an answer), this could be resolved much better and much less. In fact, instead of changing the shareholders of a company that is not the State (although the State, through Cassa depositi e prestiti parte), the latter could return fully to the possession, as well as the property, which has always been its own, also of the 2,850 kilometers of highways given in concession, making use of the right of revocation provided for in Article 9- bis of the convention stipulated between the State and Autostrade for Italy. Using the withdrawal instrument, only EUR 13 billion could be spent instead of EUR 21.9 billion. Spend 8.9 billion more (perhaps a little less according to other calculations), still giving a mountain of money to the Benettons, would be illogical however, because the gifts the State has to do to those who need it and not to billionaires. Moreover, after what has happened, it is absolutely unacceptable. I would add that the State (I will add the list of questions for which I request the reply) is spending about EUR 21.9 billion on taking a piece, albeit important, of Atlantia, when the company as a whole is listed on the stock exchange for EUR 13 billion. This operation is a double mistake, absolutely unacceptable, and the government must report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-338.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.10 a.m.
