ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 14 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u6	[[Brusio]] Colleagues, please, I hear too much buzz. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would just like to say to the House that a few moments ago we learned that Mr Emanuele Macaluso, a senator for four legislatures, left us. I therefore ask you to observe immediately a minute's silence and then to be able to commemorate it during the day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Marcucci. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]] In offering condolences to Senator Macaluso's family, I assure you that we will set a day to commemorate him in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u7	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the current political situation. I'm sensing that the broadcast is being broadcast with RAI. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u8	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, first of all I join, on behalf of the Government, the memory of Senator Emanuele Macaluso, who has been here for many years and has been active since these years and then for many years as an esteemed journalist. I believe that even those who have not shared the political ideas can agree that he has been a great protagonist of Italian political and cultural life. [[Applause]] At the beginning of this experience of Government - on September 9, 2019 - I foreshadowed, precisely in this Chamber, a clear political project for the country. I immediately pointed out that the programme on which I was going to ask Parliament for confidence was not resolved and could not be resolved in a mere list of heterogeneous proposals or, let alone, in a sterile summary of the positions taken by each of the political forces that would support the majority. Already then I was aware that an alliance between political formations coming from different stories, traditions, experiences and cultures, which - in addition - had also opposed, at times in a very harsh way, in the most recent past, could be born only on the basis of two fundamental discriminations: the first, not an extrinsic accession, but a strong anchoring to the constitutional values - including the primacy of the person, the work, equality, in the dual formal and substantial form, the protection of the environment - and the second, the solid Europeanist vocation of our country, in order to realize even more fully the national interest, to allow Italy to return protagonist in the European scenario and contribute to make the whole European Union recover its leadership position in the current international geopolitical context. Since the preparation of the programme, to which I too, together with the delegations of the political forces of the majority, we all made it possible, together, to outline the prospect of a broad and courageous reform plan. I then stated that that political project would mark the beginning of a new - which we have all hoped for and hope to be decisive - reform season, oriented towards the building of a more equitable and more inclusive society, capable of combining the primary objective of economic growth, recovery and modernisation with the indispensable requirements of sustainability, social and territorial cohesion, in the horizon of the full development of the human person. And even today, after more than a year, to cover those twenty-nine programmatic points, I think that in the country project that we shared and outlined together, although in complex circumstances and conditions, there was vision, there was a strong ideal push and there was a clear investment of trust. At the beginning of 2020, the conditions for the implementation of that project were, unfortunately, measured by the hurricane of the pandemic; it was and is a hurricane that has upset and is deeply disrupting our society, our habits of life, our collective destiny. The pandemic forced us to redefine our priorities, to rethink our model of development, the very dynamics of our relationships. We are facing a challenge of epochal scope, we are measuring ourselves with the need to define the reconstructive lines of a society that is marked again (it seems like a re-precipitation to the past) by primordial fears, often known precisely for generations of the past, fears linked to the risk of losing essential well, such as life and health, to return to feel ourselves all deeply fragile. Some of our deep-rooted certainties have suddenly been called into question. Politics itself has been forced to measure itself, almost daily, as perhaps never before, with science and technology, in the difficulty of offering effective and rapid responses to an overwhelming health emergency and a severe economic recession. Even our most established legal knowledge has been severely questioned. By virtue of the state of emergency we were forced to introduce, first in the West, with all doubts, doubts and difficulties, obviously shortly after followed by all the other countries, restrictive measures of the rights of the person, working very delicate and tiring balances of constitutional principles and rights. In these dramatic months, despite an unprecedented complexity, this majority has managed to demonstrate great responsibility, reaching, with difficulty, convergences of views and decisiveness of action, as was required above all in the most critical passages. We have cultivated a constant and close dialogue with all the institutional levels of our system, starting from the regional authorities up to the municipal ones, in the awareness that only by practicing, I would say indefessed, the principle of loyal collaboration, it would have been possible to pursue effective intervention strategies, considered (to be silent) that the competences in the matter of health management are returned in our system primarily to the regions. Not only that; the experience of the pandemic has strengthened in the political forces, which have loyally supported the Government, the awareness of the value of dialogue and dialectical confrontation between distant positions, which is an inescapable prerequisite to making the right choices, to operate those superior synthesis in the higher collective interest, to take the fundamental decisions to which, due to the gravity of the hour, we could not escape. Have we always made better choices? Have we always made the right decisions? Everyone on the point will express their own assessments; we are in the field of questionable. For my part, I can say that the Government has worked out the delicate balances and constitutional interests from time to time involved with the utmost care and attention, in the awareness of the consequences of immense magnitude that would have occurred in the lives of individuals and for the future of our community. If today, to you who are in this House and to the citizens who follow us from home, I can speak loudly, it is not because of the arrogance of those who think they have never made a mistake, but because of the awareness of those who, together with the entire government team, have committed all their physical and intellectual energies to offer the best possible protection to the national community. [[Applause]] In all these months there has been a political debate, even of some depth, on the role of politics, on which we have all questioned. I have already noted that, clearly, the dialogue between politics and science has become particularly intense and dense, almost daily. In reality, never as in this period, politics has been called to carry out its noblest mission, that of making choices for the common good, some of which are tragic in scope. It was a political choice to protect health as a priority - and this was an intuition and conviction that was immediately rooted in the Government - not only as the fundamental right of the person and the primary interest of the community, but also in the awareness that, only by protecting that primary good, one could - and can - preserve the productive fabric of the country. All politically, then, it was the choice to allocate large resources - more than EUR 100 billion in terms of net debt - to support workers, businesses, families and fragile groups, with some of the consequences associated with the losses suffered, even if, as I said yesterday, I did not want to say and I do not mean that these responses are sufficient to fully offset the losses suffered. These are the interventions that allowed us to erect a social and economic protection belt, which was also appreciated by illustrious economists, such as Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman. Strongly political, again, was the determination with which the Government, the first among European governments, promoted an initiative and asked the European Union to respond to the crisis in a radically different way than in the past and to be a promoter of expansionary policies, financed by common debt instruments, oriented towards the achievement of shared strategies. The historic agreement on the Next Generation EU programme, in order to achieve which Italy has played a driving and decisive role, spending at every level and in every formal and informal forum, not only allows us to have 209 billion euros, but has given European policy an irreversible turning point - perhaps even more important, in the future - by inaugurating a new course, capable of profoundly changing the paradigms of economic policies and the very face of the European Union. [[Applause]] We will be discussing this at the Conference on the Future of Europe in the near future. Is this not the outcome, also eminently political, of the Europeanist choice, which represented one of the fundamental reasons for this alliance of government? It was still a political choice to accompany the emerging measures with structural measures, which could, in the medium and long term, generate virtuous effects. Even in the most complex moments of the health and economic emergency, in fact, we have never given up laying the foundations for the relaunch of the country. I would remind you, for example, that already with the Budget Act for 2020, the Government introduced the cut-off of the tax wedge for the benefit of workers, which then made it structural. Think also about cutting the health superticket, bonuses for kindergartens, building bonuses, various interventions for environmental sustainability and urban regeneration, and I keep silent the other measures. So we immediately took up the challenge of turning difficulties into opportunities. Aware of the structural deficiencies of our country, we have laid the foundations for a decisive revival of growth, creating an environment more favorable to private investments, more prone to research and innovation, more attentive to the construction and strengthening of skills. If we go with mind to all the decree-laws issued during the early stages of the emergency until the last budget law, we will find structural measures, which can be interpreted in this perspective. Think of the 21 billion since 2020-2026: resources available to strengthen the hospital and territorial care network, enhance medical and nursing staff, hire health workers, invest in the training of doctors and nurses. Think of the measures for school and university: we have further strengthened interventions on staff, on digitisation, investments in school and university construction, in research. We have expanded the no-tax area for university students and school staff, and we already have the first results with regard to inversion. [[Applause]] in the number of students enrolled in the southern universities; it is an important sign: that number was always negative, and now it has grown by 6.7 percent. From next July a great reform will start: the monthly single allowance for each dependent child up to twenty-one years of age, which will involve 12.5 million children and young people. This measure is part of a wider framework of interventions aimed at reducing the economic pressure on families and reducing the burden of care on women in particular, and also stimulating women's employment. We have introduced robust incentives for private investment, focusing in particular on green transition, digital, female employment and youth. [[Applause]] The strengthening of the Transitional 4.0 package, with particular attention to investment in new digital technologies, is also to be seen in this context as the 110% super bonus for energy efficiency and the seismic adaptation of buildings. We have zeroed for three years the contributions for the recruitment of young people under the age of thirty-five throughout Italy; we have introduced a total decontribution for the employment of women workers. We have introduced and brought to a regime - until 2029 - the tax advantage for all companies operating in the Mezzogiorno - we are not southerners by intellectual vocation [[Applause]] - to fill the gap that does not make Italy run, because, as we have always clarified, if the Mezzogiorno does not run, Italy cannot run. We have, therefore, introduced a 30% cut in social security contributions for the first five years. Again, I would like to mention two measures to give the sense of interventions that express a vision for the country, aimed at improving the competitiveness of our productive fabric, made above all of small and medium-sized enterprises; but of course also large companies are struggling in this context of crisis. I am referring to the SME Heritage Fund, managed by Invitalia, which favours the capitalization of small and medium-sized enterprises investing in their recovery, and to the Destined Heritage, managed by Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which can contribute not only to support, but also to the growth of companies with turnover of more than 50 million euros. Then, also in view of the great challenge of recovery plan, we wanted to clearly redefine the regulatory framework to support investments, especially infrastructure ones. The Decree-Law simplifications aims precisely to prepare the most suitable legal environment to give the possibility to these new measures, to these new investments to be implemented effectively. We have defined, in fact, an accelerated path for the realization of public works; we have intervened to redefine in a very careful way the regime of responsibility of the public administration, with particular regard to the redefinition of the erarial responsibility, the definition of the crime of office abuse. In other words, we have created the conditions for officials and public service officers to operate in a framework of greater legal certainty, which is why it is logical that they should be more efficient. In this regard, I often hear the objection raised (and I have to say the truth happened yesterday in the Chamber) that, after a few months, the works, although considered priority under the simplification decree, would still be blocked, because there would be no designation of their commissioners. Except now the list of commissioners is there, but it isn't. These works have never been blocked, because Article 2 of the simplification decree has been applied, which assigns special powers of Commissioners to the ORs (the sole project managers). This is evidenced by the fact that, in 2020, even in this difficult economic environment, procurement, especially those of ANAS and RFI, has grown. We have reached a total of 43.3 billion compared to 39.4 billion in 2019. We could not have achieved all this (which, of course, is a small flourish of the measures introduced) if there had been no sharing, collaboration and responsibility in each political force: each political force. [[Applause]] When you suffer, when the country suffers so much, the country is more united. The sense of community has awakened and the unity of the Government has also been strengthened. The tenor of our alliance has been raised, the reasons for our being together have also been strengthened. In this perspective, the sense of responsibility demonstrated also by the political opposition forces that, even in the differentiation of roles and political positions, have - you have - helped to deal with some very critical passages with responsibility. I am thinking, for example, of the various occasions when you voted on the budgetary deviation, you have put forward concrete and qualifying proposals, some of which have been firmly accepted and shared by the majority. Thanks to this dialogue with the oppositions, we were able, all together, to strengthen, during the last budget law, for example, support measures for the self-employed, VAT consignments. It is precisely in the most critical moments in the history of a country that we must find again the high reasons of politics, those that inspire the most authentic choices, the reasons that move the commitment of those who believe that politics is essentially service to the national community. Politics not as the exercise of power or politics as the management of the contingent, but politics as thought and action oriented to man, his needs and his expectations. [[Applause]] After crossing this hairpin of human history that has happened to our generation to live, nothing will be the same as before. The government must live up to this high task. Unfortunately, however, at the height of a few weeks of very harsh media attacks, sometimes even broken down, some members of Italia Viva anticipated and then confirmed that they wanted to unravel from the common path. This was followed - it is recent news - by an abstention by the Ministers of Italy Viva at the time of the approval in the Council of Ministers of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, with the substantial motivation, or at least the main one, that does not include the resources of the ESM (which, however, as you all know, is a financing instrument that has nothing to do with the resources of the recovery fund). Finally, a press conference was held on 13 January at which ministers were announced and then confirmed in writing. A crisis has therefore opened which must now find its own clarification in this institutional framework, in accordance with the principles of transparency of the confrontation and linearity of action that have so far characterized my mandate and which are essential canons of a parliamentary democracy. It is a crisis that takes place in a crucial phase for our country, with pandemics still underway, with many families still suffering the loss of their loved ones. I confessed yesterday to feeling some discomfort. [[Comments. Applause]] , because I am here today not to explain and discuss with you the support measures for citizens and businesses, or the updated version of the recovery plan, but to try to explain a crisis that I imagine citizens - and myself - do not see any plausible basis. Our energies, which should always be focused on the urgent responses to the crisis that gripes the country, appear thus, in the eyes of the citizens, dissipated in controversial counterpoints, even sterile, totally incomprehensible to the eyes of the same citizens who every day are measured by the fear of illness, the spectre of impoverishment, the social and psychological discomfort and the anguish of the future. I also said yesterday that with this crisis the whole political class is in danger of losing touch with reality. Was there really a need to open a political crisis at this stage? I don't think so. Indeed, the ministers and allies of government who have been able to follow closely the events of the last few weeks are witnesses of the fact that we have made every effort with the greatest willingness to prevent this crisis from exploding, despite the continuous claims, the increasingly pressing criticism and the continuous re-launches often concentrated - and certainly not casually - on issues clearly divisive compared to the various sensibilities of the majority forces. [[Applause]] From here, then, the accusations directed at the whole Government - but also, in particular, at my role - at a time of immobility and of running too fast, of centralizing powers and not having the capacity to decide. I assure you that it is very complicated to govern under these conditions, with those who continuously spread mines on the common path and aims to wear down a political balance patiently achieved by the forces of majority. [[Applause]] This is a crisis that has opened a deep wound within the government team and among the majority forces, but it has also caused dismay in the country; it is a crisis that also risks causing damage to our image and that has attracted the attention of international media and foreign chancellories. So when we get to this point, we can't erase what happened or think we can recover that climate of trust. [[Applause]] and that sense of trust that are fundamental and indispensable in order to be able to work together in the interest of the country. So now we have to move on. This country deserves a cohesive government, dedicated full-time to working exclusively for the well-being of its citizens. [[Applause]] , to promote a prompt restart of our social life and an incisive recovery of our economy. The tasks that await the government are many, all urgent. First of all, we must continue to work together to secure the country and take it out of this pandemic; the plan of vaccines - it does not escape you - is proceeding quickly: we are the first in Europe, but we must continue to work with the utmost determination, waiting for new vaccines to become available and then to be able to experiment - hopefully as soon as possible - the new therapies of monoclonal antibodies. Among other things, in the coming months it will be important to strengthen the testing policy, also following the last resolution approved by the Senate. Secondly, we must then absolutely complete the recovery plan as a matter of urgency. We have sent Parliament the updated document by virtue of the contribution of all the majority forces, whom I thank for this improvement, and now we are waiting to receive the valuable indications that will be contained in Parliament's resolutions. I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity to address a thought of thanks on behalf of the Government to all the associations representing the productive categories, to the Italian union. During this pandemic, all these associations are making an indispensable contribution to making our interventions even more effective and I have also noted that they are contributing to a very important function of these times: the social estate of the country. Moreover, with the safety protocols together with the CTS, finally with the willingness to cooperate to speed up the administration of vaccines, all the associations have laid the foundations for the protection of health, safety in the workplace and economic recovery can march in unison. They too will be involved in this process, I imagine from you at the hearing and also from the Government, because we will also explain to them this new updated version of the recovery plan; we also expect a contribution from them. I would also like to stress that once we have received Parliament's valuable recommendations in the resolutions, we will be working on the final version of the recovery plan and we will bring it back to Parliament for final approval, so there will be ample opportunity to speak and to collect all your suggestions. [[Applause]] Attention, however: so that this collective effort can produce its effects - and we must not lower the threshold of attention, because for our country it is an effort not least - we will also have to accompany the plan with a legislative provision containing procedural paths that can overcome bureaucratic obstacles and ensure fast and reliable times for the realization of investments and of the reform plan. In short, we will have to strengthen those principals that allow us to respect the times and to monitor closely the execution of the works. We must work urgently in the coming days, starting tomorrow, to launch the new decree-laws. Parliament will be called upon to comment on the new request for deviation which, as you know, has also been necessary because of the current evolution of the epidemiological curve, which provides for new restrictions for economic activities. The sum that you will find indicated in our report is very substantial: EUR 32 billion in net debt. They are the resources of everyone, of the citizens. We must plan the measures with the utmost care, in order to offer a further belt of social protection, economic and recovery for the country and of course, among these sums - I say it in advance - we must put aside reserves necessary to activate the social shock absorbers throughout 2021. Italy needs a series of economic and social interventions and reforms that provide for a renewed commitment of the Government from now until the end of the legislature. I do not want to go into detail so as not to dread you, but we will have to intervene for the job; we must complete the rationalization of the system of social shock absorbers, a great and demanding overall reform; we must offer solid proposals for active labour policies. March is already tomorrow and you know that the integration fund and the blockage of redundancies are valid until the end of that month. We still need to strengthen health and action in this area, which I do not dwell on; we still need to work for education, research, the green revolution, environmental sustainability and protection of the territory; we need to accelerate the decarbonisation of electricity production; we need to promote the renewal of public rolling stock and private and commercial means of transport, and we need to strengthen the water network, the security of the territory, urban regeneration and many other chapters. Industrial policy deserves a digression, but it is a simple one: we must continue, in this period of recession, to protect and guard the most strategic investments in the country; we must promote an industrial strategy aimed at relaunching the competitiveness of the production system, aimed at generating structural change towards economic activities with high added value; we must avoid concentrating interventions according to an easy and accessible logic of incentives, which however risk being distributed indiscriminately, without providing adequate added value. We must strengthen intervention policies on the basis of production chains, which are our strength. I am thinking, for example, of tourism, automotive, agro-industrial and others. We need to promote public and private partnership; we need to strengthen, from a social economy perspective, the activities of the third sector and the intervention of non-profit bodies, in order to better measure them against the social needs that are still not fully satisfied. I am thinking of housing services for children and families and care services for the benefit of vulnerabilities and the elderly. Great and constant attention will continue to place people with disabilities, the most fragile sections of the population and their families. [[Applause]] We must strengthen policies for self-sufficient living, work and finally recognize - there are already initiatives in Parliament - the figure of caregivers. [[Applause]] They are all tools and initiatives to strengthen social inclusion. Then there are gender policies and women's empowerment. [[Applause]] We need to tackle gender gaps by promoting actions to increase women's employment, equalise pay gaps, free women from imbalances in the care burden, strengthen the support of women who are victims of violence, make a breakthrough in cultural and educational paradigms in the gender issue and promote more cross-cutting and integrated participation of women within society. A big chapter will be tax reform. There has already been a debate on this: there is a concrete reform project and we must achieve this in order to rationalise the existing framework, which is also essential to fully rebuild trust between citizens, businesses and institutions, as well as to direct our tax system towards competitiveness and sustainable growth. We must continue on the path of the country's digitisation; we have made great progress. In September 2019 SPID (the public digital identity system) was known and had only been activated by 4 million citizens; now we are at 16 million. [[Applause]] The IO app, which allows you to have the services digitized with the public administration (so staying comfortably at home), did not exist in September 2019; we are now at 9,365,000 citizens. [[Applause]] Our goal is to reduce these various inequalities, also in order to aim for equality of starting points: among them, in addition to those of gender (already mentioned), territorial and generational, there is a great factor of inequality, the digital divides between those who have the possibility or not to access the info-telematic tools. We have to work in this direction. On culture and tourism there is so much to do: they are among the most suffering sectors and most affected by this pandemic. We must exploit the country's main cultural assets and work to train the staff and strengthen the tourist offer, also through the attraction of new investments. Yesterday in the Chamber we all applauded the news of Procida, "The island of Arturo": it is the new Italian capital of culture of 2022. [[Applause]] On all these issues, on which I have clearly made a summary, there is the possibility for the parliamentary forces to come to a convergence of concrete reform proposals on which to direct the future action of Government for the revival of the country. We will work in the coming months to carry out these reforms and interventions and to allow Italy to take a path of growth, with the aim of reducing existing inequalities and increasing competition, also countering the rents of position. We will work on this and in this direction. It is also necessary to devote a special commitment to continue firmly the path of institutional reforms, an essential precondition for modernising the country and having a greater functionality of its institutions, all the more as a result of the historic constitutional reform that has led to a substantial reduction in the number of parliamentarians, approved by the decided majority of citizens in the course of a confirmation referendum. Yesterday I announced to the House, in the matter of electoral law, the commitment of the Government, obviously respecting the autonomous determinations of the parliamentary forces, to promote and contribute to achieving an electoral reform, as far as competence, proportional system, as much as possible (because it is a system law), that can effectively combine the reasons of pluralism and representation with the need, although inescapable, to ensure a total stability to the political system. I would like to clarify this point, because I read mischievous interpretations, so to speak. In the past years we have experienced a crushing of representation. The framework of political forces has been differentiated and new processes have emerged, which have been affirmed in a completely new and even bursting way. If we want to put this picture back together, it is not possible to do so by means of an electoral law that forces sensitivity into the same context, even though it is so different. This artifice would lead to instability and political insecurity and would not stabilize the picture. Rather, it seems urgent for me to offer and help to pursue, as far as I am right, an instrument that can fully deploy its capacity to promote the democratic representation of all the differences that are on the ground, so that the various political forces can express all their potentials, also recover from abstentionism the citizens distrusted and define their sure and credible profile. Obviously, these political forces, to govern, will be called upon to define high-profile and strong-content policy agreements, so as to generate governments based on clear programmes and able to offer a solid and fruitful perspective to all citizens. A number of innovations in the institutional system, all the more necessary in the light of the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, can also be effectively supported by the changes in the electoral system, in line with the guidelines already agreed by the majority parliamentary groups in the agreement reached in October 2019. It is also necessary to introduce a number of adjustments to the form of government, inspired by the model of rationalised parliamentaryism which ensures a more secure stability for the Commission and, at the same time, gives Parliament a central role in defining the national political direction. As regards the legislative procedure in particular, some forecasts may be introduced to rationalise the procedure for the adoption of laws, also with a view to reducing the use of urgent decrees, which, moreover, in the last year, because of the pandemic, has even more significantly increased or conditioned parliamentary activity. The experience of the pandemic requires a calm, careful and thoughtful reflection on the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution. [[Applause]] Let us all work and meditate together on the current division of state and regional legislative competences, as well as on the identification of mechanisms and institutions that enable the relationship between different levels of government to be more effectively coordinated. In this context, special autonomy and linguistic minorities must also be guaranteed and protected with the greatest intensity. [[Applause]] The national interest - I stress this - is more connected than ever, in the wake of our best historical and constitutional tradition, to a system that values, within the framework of the unity of the Republic, the specific economic and social needs of the different territorial realities, some of which, for geographical reasons and linguistic and cultural specificities, undoubtedly deserve all our attention and all our care. At international level, Italy has moved in full coherence with the traditional pillars of its foreign policy, starting with membership of the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance, together with which we have carried out an action of impetus and mediation to the extent of our role... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u9	Please, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council is speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u10	Conte, President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies. I said that we, together with them, have done an act of impetus and mediation to the extent of our role as a founding country, as an authoritative member of the European Union, which has been fully recovered, if you will allow me, in this part of the legislature. We also have the opportunity to make an important contribution to a useful link between the main international players, obviously starting from the United States, who are our main ally, a key strategic partner. Let us look very carefully at the Biden Presidency, with which we will begin to work immediately in view of our G20 Presidency. We have a tight agenda in common, ranging from multilateralism that we both want to see effective climate change, green and digital transition and social inclusion. We will also work with the United States and other partners of the European Union in order to have relations with China, a global player, that are consistently anchored in our system of values and principles. The Italian Presidency of the G20 has just begun (I have already mentioned it); in that place we will have the opportunity to direct the global agenda on the priorities that we have already anticipated and that revolve around the triad person-planet-prosperity. As I have already mentioned on several occasions, we place at the center of the attention of world leaders, among other topics, also those women's empowerment, Africa and digital divides. This year we will also have a responsibility to share with the United Kingdom the organisation of COP26. In Milan there will be two very important events in this direction: one is the pre-COP and the other is the Youth4Climate. For the first time hundreds and hundreds of young people will participate, who will be directly involved in the most important event on climate change and environmental protection. [[Applause]] Equally strong and coherent has been and will be our action at regional level, also in line with our consolidated interest in the stabilisation and development of the Mediterranean, with particular regard to a political solution to the crisis in Libya, in full respect of its sovereignty, and to the process of integration of the Western Balkans, in the conviction of a destiny linked to their belonging to the European family. Finally, we have devoted particular importance to an intense action to support the internationalization of companies and our general economic system, through a collective commitment of the Government, but in particular of the Farnesina. We also have the privilege of hosting another significant event, the Global Health Summit, next May 21st in Rome. This is an event that will allow us to solemnly highlight, in front of all the leaders, the importance of a global coordination of efforts to address diseases and pandemics, to ensure the most effective protection of health. Of course, we are going to make a strong, clear, planning and strategic contribution to the forthcoming Conference on the future of Europe. It will give us an opportunity to give a new impetus to the evolution of our common European home. As you can see, it is a busy calendar of commitments, of high density and also of high political importance: we cannot be found unprepared or distracted. We are all called to make, each for his own role, a collective effort to live up to all these challenges. That is why the government needs the greatest possible cohesion and the broadest consensus in Parliament. To do all this, we need a willing and conscious government and parliamentary forces aware of the difficulties we are going through and the delicacy of tasks; we need people who are willing to recognize the importance of politics. In the initial part of my speech I claimed the political character of the choices made and the decisions taken. Politics is the noblest among the arts and knowledge, because, if it is declined in the right spirit and always addressed to the well-being of citizens and to the improvement of the quality of life, it becomes a very effective tool also to compose the conflicts of society, to recognize and live together the differences and to interpret the demands, even the most diverse and distant ones. When politics eclipses, these instances end up remaining on the margins, with the risk that they will remain aphonous and therefore unheard or, worse, that they translate into anger and vent into violent confrontation. We have the urgency to make politics, all the more so in this context of widespread deprivation and deep suffering, because only politics offers us the opportunity to interpret the malaise of society, preventing it from exploding into destructive oppositions. Policy can help to make this malaise an even productive and positive factor, a factor of the nation's progress. It is therefore up to us to promote and contribute to putting into political form contradictions, aspirations, needs and willingness on the part of all to express their potential. I am thinking first of all of the workers and all the productive forces, which are the decisive components to be encouraged and promoted for the future of the Republic. This government intends to pursue a clear and precise political project, which aims to modernise the country, improving its tangible and intangible infrastructure, achieving the energy and digital transition and enhancing social inclusion, all in the sign of sustainable development: it will be our polar star. [[Applause]] Those who have ideas, projects, willingness to become builders, together with us, of this alliance devoted to pursuing sustainable development know that this is the right time to contribute to this prospect. This alliance will be called upon to express an unbreakable Europeanist vocation; only the political forces willing to make such a clear choice of field against nationalist drifts and sovereignist aspirations will be able to participate in it. [[Applause]] This alliance already exists, because there is already a solid basis for dialogue, fueled by the 5 Star Movement, the Democratic Party, Free and Equal, which is demonstrating the firmness of its anchor and the breadth of its breath precisely on the occasion of the storm generated by the current crisis. It would be an enrichment for this alliance - and I want to say it very clearly - to be able to acquire the political contribution of formations that historically stand in the wake of the best European traditions, and I am thinking of the liberal, popular and socialist one. [[Applause. Comments]] Attention, however: we call for clear and transparent support, based on a strong adherence to a political project. Of course, numbers are important, even more so today. This is a fundamental step in the institutional life of our country. [[Applause. Comments]] The numbers are important, I repeat, today in a particular way, but even more so is the quality of the political project. [[Applause. Comments]] and we ask all the political forces and also the parliamentarians who care about Italy's destiny to help us to restart as quickly as possible and to heal as soon as possible the wound that the crisis has caused in the pact of trust established with the citizens. [[Applause]] Why am I talking about a pact of trust with citizens? Trust between institutions and citizens must be mutual, a perpetual movement, and must develop into a biunivocal relationship. We have asked and are still asking citizens for so many sacrifices, big and small, because - we have said so and we are all convinced of it - they are necessary to overcome the pandemic and the citizens have offered a great response, of great responsibility, which has demonstrated the greatness and resilience of our nation, respecting the rules and accepting to make the sacrifices required, and they have also shown to place great trust in the institutions. With today's vote, I trust that the institutions will also be able to repay the confidence of the citizens, so that the serious gesture of irresponsibility can be put behind us as quickly as possible. [[Applause]] that has plunged us into this condition of objective uncertainty. To the majority forces that support this Government I want to announce, moreover, that in the next few days I will ask them to complete the confrontation that we had already begun to define a pact at the end of the legislature and agree together, in a climate of full loyalty and full confidence, the conditions and the most useful forms to strengthen also the government team. For my part, yesterday I have already announced that, given the new challenges that await me and also the international commitments, which this year are very thick and pressing, I do not intend to maintain, if not strictly necessary, the delegation to agriculture and I will also avail myself of the faculty, which the law grants me, to designate a delegated authority of my confidence that can follow the daily work of women and men in the intelligence sector. On this point, I would like to appeal to everyone, whom I asked Members of the House yesterday, to avoid any instrumental controversy involving, even indirectly, women and men in the intelligence sector. [[Applause]] You are all parliamentarians: if you have doubts and concerns - legitimate, in democracy - I invite you, on the contrary, to take the initiative, but you have two possibilities: the first, if the current regulation does not satisfy you, is the regulatory path, with an iter for possible changes; the second, if you have doubts about the management profiles, is the Copasir (so contact your colleagues in that office, who have the obligation to monitor and control). [[Applause]] For my part, I assure the utmost willingness and commitment to guide, with the contribution of all, this phase so decisive for the renewal of the country. The President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella, in his end-of-year message to the country, said: The trust we need is built in this way, keeping the responsibilities of the institutions connected with the feelings of the people. If Parliament wants to give confidence to the Government, I guarantee all of you and all the citizens that we will not only continue to use all our physical and intellectual energies to fulfil our task, but we will also add, as always, our heart, because politics, without that feeling of real sharing that the Greeks called sympátheia, remains a discipline without soul. We must build a new political bond, addressed to the parliamentary forces that have loyally supported the Government, open to all those who care about the fate of Italy. I'm willing to do my part. Long live Italy! [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u11	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u12	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Senators and Senators, first of all, in announcing my vote in favour of the Government, I would like to express my respect for you, Mr President, for the Ministers and for all the members of the Commission for your efforts, which I call honest and loyal, which you have set out to tackle the pandemic. I think you've done a good job, especially in the first phase. And I still believe that his words were truthful, admitting that some things could probably be done differently and better, but that was what you could do. I believe that no one - as other governments in the world have shown - can have the value of infallibility before a dramatic affair like this. Mr President, after my first words and following the announcement of my vote of confidence, these will remain for you the most pleasant considerations of my speech, because I am very concerned and I have a duty to express my concern here in the Senate of the Republic. I am concerned because I do not share in any way the triumphalism of those who are content with bullets and forget the reasons for politics. This crisis has been opened by Italia Viva: let's bring things back to the right dimension. I don't like hearing about some exponents of Italia Viva; for me Italy Viva has a secretary and is a party. [[Applause]] This party must be respected. My assessment is that this crisis has been opened in a wrong and hasty way, but - I must add - not unexpected, if it is true - as you mentioned in this House - that the reasons for dissent within the Government were obvious for months. He has been busy, he has been delayed, we have been prolonged on a crisis that had to be dealt with decisively and today everything is covered by the basic satisfaction of an anti-renzism, which becomes a kind of ordalia, of self-complacency. I believe that the problem, for us who support the Government, is different and it is to understand if, from this political crisis, the Government comes out stronger or weaker, because already the difficulties in the relationship with the country are immense. I do not know if we will take 161 votes, 158 or 150, but I mean that - beyond the majority, which must be taken - I do not care whether we have two more votes or two fewer votes, because the problem is the feelings of the country. There is a need, which I have recalled for months, for the government to extend the sharing base and not restrict it. We have even put this problem in the relationship with the opposition. The government is in danger of getting out of this affair with the weakened numbers and a frantic search by some responsible person. I open and close parenthesis: politics has elements of tragedy, as we have seen in the Covid story, but also of humor. I remember talking about turncoats, transformers and delinquents or almost, when Berlusconi picked up those responsible, but today they all became saints. [[Applause. Comments]] Excuse me, colleagues. On this point I will spare you the quotes I have with me from some of my colleagues who are sitting on the benches of the government. I think it's best if you let me talk without me going to pick up the quotes. I believe in the seriousness of the Members and also in their constructive intentions, but what I am denouncing is duplicity: if things used to be worth one way, today they must be worth the same and vice versa. I believe that all of you, who are responsible people - especially those who support this government with the vote, which is the act that counts - understand perfectly that an account is to have a political formation constituting a pact, on which the Government has formed; another account is to have a very respectable set of parliamentarians who, for their reasons, even of deep conviction, come to support the Government. The theme is that problems have been raised in an instrumental way? Colleagues, I have statements here, which - yes - I would like to read. There are statements by the secretary of the PD: "We move forward if the government does things. If you stop the bike falls down and for months (...) we urge a restart of our coalition, which (...) must be able to face (...) with greater solidity the reconstruction of Italy. It was January 6th. As for the social and economic forces, I quote Landini: The trade unions did not have the opportunity to discuss the strategy and the first draft of the recovery plan, says it was very bad and inadequate. I also mention Bonomi, President of Confindustria, for which: "Nobody speaks more about reality, but reality knocks on the door and presents the account." The Government is very closed on itself and has no vision. As for the main members of the financial community, I invite colleagues to read yesterday's interview with Bini Smaghi, because I do not want to continue with the quotations. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I greet Senator Segre as soon as she arrives. [[Live, prolonged applause. The Assembly and the members of the Government stand]] I begin with the conclusion, because the speech is very short. I would like to tell you, Mr President, that you have demonstrated, in all events, your solidity. I have to say that he has also demonstrated his ability: today he mentioned Biden, but he worked well with Trump; the first Conte Government began with Salvini, and no one would ever have said that there would be a Conte bis Government with PD. Good. Don't talk, then, about uncanny things. As your experience shows, there is nothing uncancellable. So, I invite you to make an effort. And that is what I say when I give you my vote in favour. After that, of course, you may reject my assessments to the sender, but I feel obliged to do so. We take a common path with those who have made divisive reasons prevail, because today we may also be satisfied with the bullet box, but tomorrow will remain the rubble of a relationship with the country that will be even more difficult to rebuild. You spoke against sovereignism. I agree: I am a Europeanist and my sovereignism is the European one. See that, when there are reasons for a reconstruction, which must also start from a self-criticism of colleagues of Italy Viva; when we move forward limping, and perhaps appealing to numbers, we will have done the Italian sovereign forces the greatest favor that can ever be expected, because our relationship with the country will be further weakened. Already the difficulties are many. I think you're called, and I realize it can be difficult. Collegi, in my political activity - I look at my friend Dario Franceschini with whom, since the time of the youth movement, we have shared many things - but I have learned two truths: the things done quickly are... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] and, when resentment prevails in politics, the choices that are made are always harmful, especially for those who make them. I ask all the protagonists of politics - I do this as a simple senator, who has no role, except his own experience - to recover the common thread, past today, where moreover the abstention vote of Italy Viva allows in any case to have a relative tranquility. We re-announce - who has the most intelligence, as we say in this case - and we try to move forward together, recovering - as his illustrious and never forgotten Corregional Aldo Moro said - the reasons of the common path. Better to be wrong together than to be right alone. I believe that at this lesson of a great Christian democratic statesman we would really need to draw on it today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u13	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u14	Mr President, fellow senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the trust you are asking Parliament - today in the Senate - is a particular request for trust. If the Senate gives you confidence today, it gives you an honor, but above all an exceptional responsibility, which is very heavy for you and for us: that of making you, a person who is certainly qualified, but whose existence was not known when this legislature was born, probably the third man of state - after two very important figures, and very different from each other, Alcide De Gasperi and Silvio Berlusconi - to have been President of the Council of Ministers for a full five-year term. This is a scenario that today, with confidence, would become possible. This is certainly your merit, but it is also a great responsibility, because almost no one will have had the chance, that you are having, to change the country. In fact, you speak explicitly of a parliamentary pact and invites you to cooperate with her, to support her and to support her Government who cares about Italy. Those who have a heart in Italy help us: you have said several times. It seems to me an honest, important and very responsible appeal. But what does it mean to have Italy at heart? Does it mean having at heart the vote of the Italians in the next elections or does it mean having at heart the future of the Italians and the future of the children of the Italians? We know that there is often a sharp contrast between the two perspectives. You - in my opinion - will have an extremely demanding task, as you have had it so far, but even more so in this drawing that begins to become historical. It will have a duty to help the country realize the reality; not to help it disappoint it in a fair of hypocrisies, as we often listen in parliamentary classrooms and very often in political debate. Things are spoken that the pronunciation knows how to be unfounded or, if applied, deleterious to the country, but perhaps useful to have the vote next time. That is the language of truth, to which you also owe a debt, because measures such as a 100 quota or how the income of citizenship bears your signature. I took a test, even for the last two days. On Sunday in an article I indicated, for the sake of transparency, what criteria I would have followed today, listen to his communications, in deciding on my trust. A crucial point for me - as it has become for you too - is a strong anchor to the Europeanist choice of field. Today you said something important, which I do not think you said to the House yesterday: a European anchor in order to achieve, even more fully, national interest. This is the thing to explain to those who have not yet completely overcome sovereignism, because it is in this way that Italy fully realizes its national interest. [[Applause]] Well, you also appealed to the liberal and socialist popular forces. For consistency - and if I am sure that you already know intellectually - you must also recognise that the model that, with so many variations, guides the countries of Europe is that of the social market economy, sustainable and highly competitive. [[Applause.]] Here we recognize both the liberal component in Europe, which will give a little more weight to the market, and the socialist popular component, which will give a little more weight to sociality, and of course the green component, for some mysterious reason in Italy transfigured into stellar forms, but which should return to giving a great boost in the season under the name of sustainability. [[Applause.]] Well, the concrete choice that required this European approach - but it must give impetus to Italy, because that is where the national interest really takes place - were - in my opinion, as I indicated - a greater attention to the issue of inequalities, tax reform and also to the subject, very little in the throes of Italy, of competition and the fight against the rents of position, which is not present neither in the liberals, nor in the socialists, nor in those who have a cultural orientation, nor in those who have that other in Italy. Well, the comments you made yesterday and repeated today and the accents that I seem to have noticed today in particular compared to yesterday lead me to have a positive orientation. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, at one point you said one thing with regard to the so-called'restoration decrees': if we want to have a caricature debate - as has been the case these days - if we are asking for their sine die prosecuability (what it might mean to say), we can say that it is total disregard for social issues. But no: you yourself said that they must be done with care, just as they are extraordinarily necessary today. You said that they are resources of all of us and that applies to all sources of public debt. In fact, that is not the case, because they are made in debt: they are not our resources, but we borrow a little from our fellow Europeans and a lot from the citizens from tomorrow, through debt. That is why even the budgetary deviation, which is becoming a national unity exercise - because ours, unfortunately, is a democratic Republic founded not on work, but on public debt - does not have the meaning of licensing to burden our children and grandchildren more and more. We will have to do things more wisely, as you have indicated. I conclude by saying that I had also allowed myself to suggest public ways, transparent and open to opposition, indeed with an invitation to take part, but with the exercises in the hands of the Government, to give in certain times a concrete articulation to the objectives. Mr President, I am therefore announcing today my vote of confidence in the way that I am. I do not bring you votes, except mine, which, as always, is a vote of free and conditional trust to those who will be the measures and if they will correspond to my convictions. If that is the case, if there is such a response in the future, I will not only support it, but I will also work with the public, including the international one, to support what will be done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u15	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u16	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make many of the comments made by my colleague and friend Pier Ferdinando Casini, but - the wise man said - wise people always miss their times and, therefore, the wisdom in fact does not exist. But one thing we can say. Mr President, when history takes over from the news and then looks at things from above, this political phase will be more or less written and read like this. It is a creeping crisis that had virtually opened in November, daughter - I too quote the Deputy Secretary of the Democratic Party - of slowness and errors; aggravated by internal divisions to the parties that support it and never loosed knots (the ESM in this case), or positively dissolved after long diatribes, as in the case of recovery plan, thanks also to the work done by the Italian Group Viva - PSI. Finally, the crisis was formalized a few days ago by a gamble that I did not share. I would point out, however, that if the logic of the scapegoat prevails as an alibi so as not to face the knots that are all there in front of us, let me suggest and advise that we would take a decidedly wrong path. On one point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are quite right: to govern the unknown, in a tragedy that has reaped thousands of lives, is a load that has never brought anyone from 1944 to the present in Italy. And that's a reason enough to roll up your sleeves, to give a hand without demanding anything, but demanding the clarity of a strategy, which is what it takes. We are at what the Italians want. They want the pandemic to be tackled decisively, that the schools reopen, that the foundations be laid for economic recovery: therefore a more just, freer Italy, in a world where politics prevails over multinationals and high finance. Precisely because their behaviour has been exemplary, the Italians demand that we take care of them first and then maybe of us and above all want the certainty that this path takes place thanks to the stability and the certainty of a combination that lies at the top of our state system and that of course concerns the Presidency of the Republic and the Presidency of the Council of Ministers with its Government. Let us come to the point then, because it is useless to go around with a non-political reading of the Constitution. It is obvious, it is well known and it has been written since that day: today we do not need 161 votes for trust, just read the Italian Constitution. True, it is certainly true that from 1944 until today there have been about ten governments that have not originally enjoyed the absolute majority. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with the exception of the third Andreotti Government of 1976, the so-called Government of non-confidence, were all governments or beaches or from the fate marked or governments bridge towards solutions that were emerging. These are the cases of the Executives born without a majority in the Italian parliamentary experience. We know that Italy is in a state of emergency, but you have two extraordinary opportunities already mentioned by Senator Monti. Affected by the fear of a third epidemic wave, gripped by a fierce economic crisis, the decisive year in which the negative hairpin of history can be overturned is exactly this and it is 2021 for two reasons: the first was certainly from autumn, the other was not. And I am certain that we have the vaccine and, therefore, the obligation to run to vaccinate the majority of Italians; the other was in recovery plan, which this Group has helped to modify deeply and for which today it needs a direction booth, we must define the projects and let me point out that it must be put in synergy with a plan of return from the public debt in order to avoid that the central subject of the recovery plan, which is not me but my children, does not have a public debt on the shoulders, that it will probably manage to annihilate particularly many of its efforts. It would be a mistake to face this challenge without a long-term political project. We do not rule with an extra vote, much less and much more in times of emergency. Let alone rule with one less vote. President, then I ask you how the ideas you represented yesterday in the House and today in the Senate are transformed into projects. In these days we have had - I am speaking of the socialists - a precise position: the President of the Council leaves, with you at the head, from the existing coalition extending it to the European forces, precisely because in the particularly delicate stages such as this inclusion must be the compass and the craft of tailor and the republican spirit must prevail over every partisanry. I appreciate that a truth has finally been shared: a government with a majority built thanks to miraculous fishing was useless, even harmful. I too have had - rarely; believe me - the telephone decidedly hot and maybe to call me was Agostino Depretis, improperly quoted by whom history should have read it again. He did a reform, that of the secular school and compulsory up to ten years of age. Whoever you've been looking for, I said I don't look like the barber's chair. He gets it. Today, however, you set out a strategy in two stages: vote of confidence and then enlargement of the majority. I agree with his preamble: a determined opposition to all forms of nationalism - it is the evil of Europe - because we have also touched with our hands the bad reasons of those who keep Europe in sight and consider our western location a West to contend with incessant dialogues with Putin's Russia, but that is the wrong way. Moreover, today we are discussing a government and a majority born in August 2019 precisely to marry this reason and not its opposite reason. Moreover - I add - considering Trump's defeat as the planetary defeat of the populist wave I find a reading of history and of what is happening decidedly not propitious and wrong. The hunt for the different, a fierce language and terraplattism have eroded here too spaces of freedom and individual rights and this risk can never be taken again. If it is necessary to work to never run it again - I quote Nenni and it will be the only quote I will make - out of the grudge to reach a space of unity, this is the road that must be followed. I will conclude on the forces that should share this design. You made a clear appeal to LEU, the Democratic Party, the 5 Star Movement and addressed a call to willing political forces that refer to the popular, liberal and socialist tradition. They are the three families that lead the majority of European countries; one of them was Matteo Renzi, then leader of the Democratic Party, who led six years ago in the party of European socialism. One of these sits authoritatively among the benches of your government. I do not know whether or not the Democratic Party shares its intention: at least, I did not see any sign, either positive or negative, in yesterday's debate in Montecitorio. Mr President, I know that the Socialists will assess your intention in due course, bearing in mind that we have supported your Government in recent months as stateless persons: we are not a member of it; we have never received an invitation to attend meetings in which important decisions were being prepared. When we did not agree, we did not take refuge in steep demands, but we expressed here in the light of the sun our loyal dissent and, even, twice with two votes against on two specific issues in trust with you. The only notes he received from us concerned policy points that we considered addressed without the necessary determination. I'm not quoting them. You know what I'm talking about. I'm done. I repeat: we care only about a rebirth project for Italy, to know its contents. I have a proposition for you, too. Once the budgetary deviation, which we shall vote on, has been approved, it quickly summons the European forces to accept its appeal: it is the main road to be followed in the light of the sun. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u18	Mr President, allow me to reply to Senator Monti: if the lawyer really does Count will succeed in being President of the Council for an entire legislature, he will not equal the primacy of De Gasperi and Berlusconi, but he will make one of his own, that is to say, being President of the Council of three different majorities in a single legislature. [[Applause]] This is a record that certainly no one will ever succeed in achieving and overcoming. The government goes on only with the support of all the majority forces, of each majority force, and not by taking a vote here and there. Who said that? Count said it six days ago when he left the Quirinale; a sentence, President Count, worthy of a man of state, because certainly consistency belongs to the men of state. I said to myself: do you want to see that at last Count, after presiding over the worst government of republican history (not the best), finally has a blow and really starts flying high? Well, my illusion lasted twenty-four hours - just twenty-four hours - because after twenty-four hours the true nature of Count, who is a liquid nature, has re-emerged. The form of Count's lawyer is - I think - the form of water, which adapts to any situation. Friend of Trump and friend of Biden; friend and ally of the League and friend and ally of the PD; sovereignist and Europeanist; ports closed with the first security decree and open doors for all with the second security decree (except, etc.). In short, this is what a great constitutionalist like Carlo Schmid would have termed "political opportunism" and that I, more modestly, allow myself to call opportunism. After twenty-four hours, in fact, President Conte has gone fishing - not hunting, but fishing, because he hopes that they will bite - of the so-called leaders. He calls them "responsible" or "volunteerous" (now the adjectives are wasted). Giovannino Guareschi would call them "useful idiots," but I do not allow myself to use such an offensive phrase in this House. As Mastella says, the leaders are like the Viet Cong group: they will leave at the last moment. Dear President Conte, here the true Viet Cong will not be responsible. The real Viet Cong from tomorrow will be the parliamentarians of Italia Viva. It is clear that, if you have a large majority in this House today, this will only happen with the abstention of Italia Viva. And so it is clear that today, if you get a collectible majority, you hand yourself hostage to Renzi, that is, to the power of blackmail of your votes, decisive in many Commissions. As of tomorrow you will face a guerrilla war in this House of Parliament. And this is the least because in this way you, for your personal interest, condemn the Italians to the weakest government possible at the time when you would instead need a strong and authoritative government. You really represent today the untenable lightness of being at a time when there would be a need for a gravity that you are obviously not capable of. In the face of a health tragedy and an even more serious economic tragedy, all you do is think about your personal interest. [[Applause]] I understand the survival instinct, but there is a limit to everything, colleagues. She says she wants to fly tall, but she's not an eagle, she's just a lame duck. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u19	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have listened carefully to your communications and we cannot fail to share your call for democratic accountability to which Parliament is called today. We are at a politically difficult passage, which falls into a dramatic conjuncture of history, and the risk of accrediting to public opinion this debate, the chases of these days, tactics and polemics as a sterile and unconscious game of power, is very high. The mediation of the conflict and the personalistic degeneration of the confrontation risk making this House appear as a body alien to the country, which does not ask us for a crisis of government, a reckoning, nor to venture into the swampy and friable terrain of short-term agreements. The country asks us for a sure guide, a clear direction of march, a stable government supported by a solid majority, animated by a vision of the present and the future of Italy and what the Latins called gravitas. In other words, it asks us to be aware of the difficult task ahead of us: to come out of the pandemic; to overcome the economic emergency; finally to attack the historical criticalities, that is, insufficient infrastructure, slow and cumbersome public administration, current expenditure and public debt in constant growth, ever-filled territorial and social gaps, structural investments anemic and an unsustainable generational gap that penalizes young people and women. It is on us, on the ruling class of the country, the historical responsibility to support the needs of people, families and businesses, and not to selfishly dump on the new generations the cyclopic burden of a debt pushed to a level that will not be bearable unless accompanied by adequate economic growth. Europe is certainly the distinguishing feature of the forces calling for this majority, and I am glad that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have pointed this out adequately. This is the sign that we must give to this debate: how to honour the extraordinary act of trust of the European Union towards our country, which has provided us with a colossal bestowal of resources. In this sense, we are faced with a great challenge, that of human capital. We are rightly talking about technological development, ecological conversion and sustainability, but if we do not do the training we will have unemployed and we will not have the appropriate profiles for a new phase based on digital technology and environmental sustainability. With regard to the great challenge of the social question, I quote the great Macaluso who said that the social question is the primary question of the left. Generate a bit of anguish to listen to or read the things that the neoabsorber Moratti said yesterday, tying vaccination to GDP [[Applause]] , that is to say to wealth, penalising the weakest regions. We are also faced with the major challenges of infrastructure, materials and intangibles, corporate capitalization and school. This wave of public investment must also serve to support the most disadvantaged sectors, tourism, transport, culture, trade and export, leaving, as you said, the logic of the rest and aiming at the development of production chains. We are waiting for a great season of renewal, anchoring in the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations and able to include fiscal and public administration reform, reform of justice and welfare and the centrality of Parliament, starting with the review of the recovery plan, of our National Plan on Next Generation EU. These are enormous challenges - and you have listed them all, Mr President - and ambitious objectives, which the country has been waiting for for years. May the Senate face today's test with the right awareness of this powerfulness and with the greatest effort of foresight. We'd make a mistake if we concentrated our efforts on the numbers count, the bullet. I am sure, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you are aware of the seriousness and scale of the challenges you yourself have presented in your report, but this requires more energy, no less, solid political bases, not fragile. If we want to be credible and if we want to be believed, we must be more open, not cultivate illusions of self-sufficiency; we must try to live up to the historical phase to which we are called and reconnect the threads of political dialogue within and outside the majority, to do only the supreme goal of the good of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u21	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u22	Mr President, while I was listening to President Conte, hearing his persuasive voice snub words of self-incense and asking for help, I had the chills, because it came back to my mind that night, on the night of 27 April, when, two months after the outbreak of the pandemic, while asking for help were my fellow citizens from Bergamo closed in their homes to mourn their unhealthy deaths, she arrived very late, in the blue car, to bring a hasty and rude greeting, without even looking around. That day I realized that he did not deserve the confidence of the country, President Conte, and today I have been confirmed. [[Applause]] An ice president, who today speaks of sympathy, empathy, heart and soul. But where is it, President Conte, when the soul is sent to citizens who no longer have eyes to cry? [[Applause]] Where is the soul, President Count, when you kneel whole compartments because you can't evaluate the fairness with which to distribute the refreshments? Or when you promise support for the adjustment costs of restaurants that will remain closed (but in the trucks you can assemble)? Or skiing, health professions, events, aesthetics; we could go on forever. Where is the soul, President Conte, when you leave the masons to eat on the street in the cold. [[Applause]] Have you ever seen them, President Conte, or do you think they're all on the couch waiting for their citizenship income? Have you ever entered a small house, President Conte - she, who fills her mouth with female empowerment - where a mother who works in smart working has to look after the children? Where is the soul, when you leave the kids at home from school, rather than triggering the magnificent alliance between public and private, between public transport and tourist buses, between state school and equal? [[Applause]] Where is the soul, President Conte, when to structural reforms, to simplification, to vouchers, to support the medicine of the territory, to the unblocking of the exams for the licenses have preferred the useless bonuses for the scooters, for the bikes, for the taps and in the empty schools throne ridiculous plastic wheelchairs, while talking about environmental sustainability? [[Applause]] Allow me to smile, President Conte, bitterly though, quoting another passage from his speech, when he says: We immediately met the challenge of turning difficulties into opportunities. Of course, the opportunity for you to take advantage of the difficulty to anchor yourself in the armchairs [[Applause]] , making mockery of democracy, of coherence, of any value that signalled his Movement of belonging, when he spit against us, against the Democratic Party and against every one of those to whom today he asks for help. Today you come to the Chamber, President Conte, like a chameleon [[Applause]] We have to do, we have to do, we have to do, as if it were at the beginning of the mandate, with a calm and, if I may say so, a disturbing face, asking us to support another Frankenstein government. [[Applause]] As a private TV bomber promises, promises, promises, adds, adds, without even mentioning all the mistakes made. Tell us, President Conte, who was wrong in organizing the pandemic plan? Who, President Conte, misplaced the transport plan that brought the students out of school ready? Who has mistaken and predicted Italy Arlecchino that has fueled the confusion and conflict between local authorities, regions and central government, instead of creating a virtuous synergy? Who made a mistake, predicting first-stage risors, without being able to produce effective compensation in relation to costs, blocking the nation? Who has not had the courage to implement an active labour policy for those who will no longer have it because they are shutting down businesses, activities on activities? [[Applause]] Who has left alone - and I am beginning to conclude - people with disabilities and their families and today is allowed to talk about caregivers with a law that is still in the Commission? [[Applause]] Count 1 and Count 2 were a failure, President. You present yourself here, virgin, to explain to us the Count of the future, as if you were not really the cause of the country's failure, the one who made a health crisis an economic tragedy. You destroyed a country, President Conte, and now you're asking to rebuild it. No, thank you. Apologize, pass your hand; the train whistled. You said so, President Conte, you have to move on. The country deserves a cohesive and prepared government and therefore deserves another government and we are ready to rebuild it, with a new center-right Executive, what the Italians want, with courage, giving confidence and freedom to those who produce and work, looking people in the eyes and listening to them. President Conte, you are looking for people available today; at my house the people available are called in another way and I do not go any further. Allow me to conclude, by unworthyly paraphrasing a great statesman, whose anniversary of death is celebrated today, Bettino Craxi. [[Applause]] We will not vote for this Government because - paraphrasing him - our freedom is equivalent to our life. Come on, Italy! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u23	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u24	Mr President, I believe that we must, out of respect for this House, but even more out of respect for the Italians, make some clarity on the real reason why we are here today and for which yesterday the House met on trust in the Conte bis Government. We must tell the truth, tell what was the reason: the whim of Italy Viva? Maybe. The inability and inconclusiveness of this government? Perhaps, but going deeper, the real reason that created this instability lies in the fault of this Government's factory, it is in the original sin that gave birth to this Government, because, President Count, this Government was not born of a vision, because you have never had a vision of Italy. This government was born in September 2019 from fear and against someone. [[Applause]] It was born from fear of the vote, because you were tremendously afraid to go to the elections in September 2019, and against Matteo Salvini, who would overwhelm those elections. Moreover, this Government - let us remember - is also born of betrayal, because you betrayed the word given to President Mattarella, who responsibly decided, according to his role, to entrust her with the task on the basis of two requirements: arithmetic, which was there, and the strategic vision of this company. The arithmetic has failed, the strategic vision has never been there and - without anyone being offended - the real reason, to be clearer towards the Italians, of this crisis is that this Government - I repeat, that no one is offended - is a real Brancaleone army. [[Applause]] It is an army Brancaleone because I see that Di Maio is sitting in those benches along with those who represent the so-called party of Bibbiano (remember that he said: "Never with those of the party of Bibbiano"?) [[Applause]] I see the Democratic Party sitting with the Movimento 5 Stars, when Zingaretti, all suffering, all sweaty, said: "Never with the Five Stars, I have beaten them, I will never go with them." Finally, it is an army Brancaleone because we have on the one hand the communists, or former communists, together with Professor Monti. President Conte, there has never been a vision and you - I am sorry to tell you - always speak very lightly and with great superficiality, but the Italians remember well. You spoke superficially and lightly in July 2019, when you were still in the government with the League, you said this sentence: That I can go to Parliament to look for alternative majorities (...) is pure fantasy. You have today reduced this Parliament to a genuine cow market. [[Applause]] You have been superficial and light, President Conte, because as a hyper-sovereignist, when he said that sovereignty belongs to the people, not because we say so, but because Article 1 of our Constitution says so, he has become, since yesterday, hyper-European. You spoke lightly during this pandemic too, when you asked the Italians for sacrifices and closures, promising that maybe Christmas would be lived in harmony, normally, and what does it do today? He still threatens sacrifices and closures. On this, President Count, on coherence, at least his political putative father, the oracle of the Five Stars, Beppe Grillo, was more linear: he was born comic, he continues to be a comedian and probably will die comic. [[Applause]] Today we are witnessing the same script: you are here, we have heard of interventions that called for a paternalistic sentiment. We love each other, we try to be together, we try to make out and calibrate feelings, as if it were the love relationship of a couple in crisis, but it's not like that. Today you are here with the same script of September 2019: try to put together pieces, not because there is a new project, not because there is a change, but simply because even today, as then, you are afraid of the vote and you have the will to go against the center-right and against Matteo Salvini. [[Applause]] You, President Conte, have said these days that if you go to the vote you will go house by house, you will do the door to door; I do not know if it is a wish on your part or if it is a threat. If it's a wish we pick it up, but if it's a threat it doesn't scare us, but it's all up to you. Decide what you want to do, but go to the territory, go house by house, go door by door is our daily life, because we are on the territory and if you want we also tell you cities, neighborhood, street and civic number; we stand there, we are not in the Palace. Then, to talk about the 5 Star Movimento revolution, what has this revolution borne in the past months? I do not say anything about Matteo Renzi, who is the usual Gian Burrasca (now we know him, so we will see what his intemperance will produce), but the revolution of the Movimento 5 Stars what has produced? It has been rediscovered Clemente Mastella, which has been invoked in these days as the miracle worker who would heal this sick democracy. Your revolution has even elevated to the rank of statesmen Razzi and Scilipoti: this is what you have provoked. [[Applause]] Evidently, the didactic pedagogy on which Professor Monti led worked and produced his own results. But let's talk about Italy and the Italians. His report, President Conte, contained everything and nothing, had no prospects and had no soul. Today we see an Italy - we do not say this to be pessimistic - that has less than 10 percent of GDP, has the record of deaths in 2020 (720,000 deaths), the historical minimum of births under 400,000; firm investments, 390,000 companies and 200,000 professional studies that close. Now we are witnessing a communication where there is no talk of vaccines, and we are not talking about reopening bars, restaurants, gyms and sports facilities. [[Applause]] Dear Professor Monti, the Government must encourage the reopenings (not the closures) of the activities that with so many sacrifices the Italians have put up. We are not talking about reconstruction here, but about proportional electoral law. On the Mezzogiorno, I do not have the pleasure of seeing the Minister for the South and territorial cohesion among the benches of the Government; be aware that it is not enough to have the label 'io' from the South to make policies in favour of the Mezzogiorno. Those who had these labels in the past have done nothing but damage and you continue on the same path. In 2019, President Conte said he wanted a lush Mezzogiorno. The Minister for the South spoke of a Mezzogiorno which is at the heart of the solution of the Italy issue and the Europe issue. Well, you in the South today have "not received": only fine words, only promises of tips, but the South and all of Italy need investment in development. The South needs private initiatives to be freed, needs to start running again, and all this cannot happen with a government that supports itself with those responsible, with the builders and with the willing. Let's be honest about this too, let's call them by the right name: they are the turncoats. [[Applause]] All this is created only if there is a vision, a strong government in ideas and solid in numbers. In conclusion, Mr President, there remains one thing to be done to preserve a political dignity, to have respect for Italy: step aside. Step aside because you are inadequate; politically you always have been and after the cow market you forced us to attend you are also morally. Italy deserves more and you don't deserve Italy. It remains for you to draw the necessary and responsible consequences. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u25	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr Conte, ladies and gentlemen, when you are experiencing a phase of personal, but also social, shock, you are often unable to discern the reality. I am afraid that today there is not full concentration of the drama that we are experiencing: an invisible killer continues to circulate through the streets of our country, striking with ruthless virulence and leaving on this atypical battlefield hundreds of people every day, first of all the most fragile and that is our parents, our uncles and our grandparents. In our Italy more than 80,000 people have died: it is as if an entire city were no longer there. The country suffers, is disoriented and before this drama would serve unity and a common vision, which transcends personal selfishness. [[Applause]] In these darkness, which disorient us, two important voices of our time, such as the President of the Republic Mattarella and Pope Francis, have invited us to decline our choices using the "we" and not the "I," inviting us therefore to unity and not to divide for our own benefit. [[Applause]] These appeals have fallen into the void because, the only case in the world, there are those who, in full pandemic and in the midst of a medical and economic emergency, invent a crisis of government. [[Applause]] We are at the height of the paradoxism and the triumph of irresponsibility. This reckless political action and this incomprehensible crisis undermine the image of Italy abroad, at a critical moment and of the highest international exposure for our country. We have the G20 presidency and the COP26 co-chair on climate change, we host the Global Health Summit and, above all, we are the first beneficiaries of the largest economic recovery plan ever put in place by Europe. After a long time we have built the image of a different, credible and strong country, while now all our European partners and all the world remain shocked by such political schizophrenia, which had never been seen in republican history. [[Applause]] For the "Finncial Times" Renzi puts in danger the future of the recovery plan and the same for "El Pais"; for the agency "Reuters" is unfair and ruthless, for "Der Spiegel" is desperate, while for the "New York Times" Renzi is a destroyer. Dante Alighieri places the sowers of division in the ninth bolgy of hell. The Florentine poet, eight hundred years ago, explained to us how certain characters, who use their talent not to build, but to divide, are actually divided within themselves and that is why they are not serene, but are damned. In other words, they are ruled by the ego. Mr Conte, over the past few weeks you have been accused of not being prone to dialogue, of mounting your head, of wanting full powers, of abusing social media and even of creating a democratic vulnus. The truth, Mr President, is that if you want to have the consent, trust and vote of certain professionals in the division, you should stop pursuing the common good and prefer that of the few, the lobbyists, the financial groups and the masonry. [[Applause]] In addition, Mr Conte, I believe that you have another problem: you are winning too many games, even in traditionally hostile camps, such as Brussels. She won Italy when all her predecessors had lost heavily. Italy, thanks to its work, has returned central to the political scenario, becoming the bearer of a historical change in Europe, which the Movimento 5 Stars has been asking for for years: no longer the cold financial union, based on the failing dogma of austerity, but rather a community of peoples, solidarity and projected towards the future. The recovery fund, the great European Marshall Plan for the third millennium, exists thanks to you, Mr Conte. [[Applause]] and it is thanks to you and the government's building action that our country will receive more funds than all the others (well 209 billion euros): huge capitals, which tease certain appetites. These capitals serve people in difficulty: I think of restaurateurs, bartenders, trade fairs, tourism operators, all those who are afraid of tomorrow. We want to use these 209 billions to make our country a modern, fast nation, to project it towards the future, to make it sustainable, to ensure efficient health care and public school, to export our excellences to the world. I conclude by saying that today we must turn this health and economic drama into a rebirth. We are already doing this with measures such as the 110% bonus, which is relaunching the building sector and making our homes more efficient and safer. This is the time to build a new pact for Italy, which must be written looking into our children's eyes, because today we are planning especially their future. [[Applause]] Like Movimento 5 Stars, we're convinced that we're gonna make it to her. We owe it first of all to those 80,000 dead. Go ahead, President Conte, we and the Italian people who pursue the common good are and will always be at your side. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u27	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the best doctrine of public law, in Italy and in Western countries, recognizes three ontological categories at the basis of a candidacy for a public office: to be part of a political party, possibly a coalition, to have a programme, a specific project to be carried out, and to be a person worthy of that task, especially if the election takes place for nominal preferences, as was mine. This is why, when I passed through the Italian Autonomous Movement abroad a few months ago (MAIE), I thanked the constituent Fathers from the bottom of my heart for having explicitly provided in the Italian Constitution for the prohibition of mandatory mandate. This is for two reasons: for the efficiency of parliamentary action and for consistency. Efficiency has led me in a few months to achieve five of the seven points in the programme on the basis of which I presented myself in the foreign constituency. We have been able to pass - it has become a law of the State - the reduction to 50% of the IMU that is paid by Italian pensioners abroad, which are discriminated against in this sense compared to Italian pensioners. We have allowed an audience of 20,000 people who have returned to Italy to make their know-how - the so-called counter-exodus measure, of which I was rapporteur in 2010 in the Commission and in the Assembly - to stay in Italy and to see confirmed the tax benefits provided by that law. We have obtained that, after ten years of blockade, Italians abroad, 6 million, 10 percent of the Italian population - understated official data, in fact there are many more - will finally be able to confirm, at the level of consular jurisdiction with more than 20,000 inhabitants (there are so many in the world) their elected: a democratic exercise, the renewal of the committees, which was blocked for ten years. [[Applause]] We have even obtained that the Italian restaurateurs abroad, tens of thousands of Italian entrepreneurs who abroad have become honored with their catering exercises, their pizzerias and ice cream parlors, are recognized the merit of the originality of their productions. It is not only the benefit of these lords and their families; it is the benefit of all the producers of agri-food, of the Italian excellences, which from now on have, in this chain, a mode of distribution of products abroad that there was and that no one had wanted to recognize. The effectiveness of parliamentary action is important - we are not here to sit and push a button - as is consistency. Forty years ago I started to go to Brussels from the House of Europe in Rome (Federationist Movement) to ask for the universal suffrage of the European Parliament, to ask for a Europe of solidarity, something we dreamed of until a few months ago. One cannot be in a coalition for belonging without being consistent with one's own principles. We cannot parade with coalition allies who aim at Italexit, who aim to fight Europe when they profess to be Europeans. That's why we have created Italy 23, an association that is born from civil society, that please go and see, that proposes topics elaborated by experts, people who free of charge, with their intellect, make their proposals available to the country. We are grateful for this political openness which is given to us, to create, also in the Italian Parliament, and possibly in the majority of the Government, an outlet for liberals, socialists and convinced Europeans, to make this path together. That is why, as a MAIE-Italy 23 component, we confirm your confidence, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u29	Senator Maiorino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u30	Mr President, let me begin by offering a tribute and sincere thanks to a woman who today has given a lesson in civil ethics to all of us, Senator Liliana Segre. [[Applause]] His example, his gesture, gives the measure of the absurdity of the situation that we find ourselves living more than a thousand words. Forgive me, Senator Secret, for talking about you. I do it with deep respect and with genuine admiration. Mrs Segre, with her history, leaving aside even the advice of doctors, is here today among us because she has placed the salvation of the country before her own personal safety. [[Applause]] The exact opposite, unfortunately, of what did the one who dragged us into this absurd situation, who has no other reason to be than to have put himself before everything else. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have spoken of the discomfort of being here today without being able to offer a valid explanation of why we are here discussing a possible government crisis. We feel the same deep discomfort. In fact, it was never more distant from the reality and needs of the citizens who, out there, look at us stunned. Speaking of the crisis of government while Italy mourns over 80,000 deaths and with the greatest vaccination campaign ever going on, which also sees us at the summits in Europe for doses given; being here today while we have obtained, thanks to you and this Government, the largest economic and political credit from Europe, which has granted us the largest sum among the members of the Union; although for the first time we are breaking down the principles of austerity, after years spent talking about it: with everything this Parliament has to do, between budget deviation, decrees and plans for recovery fund to relaunch the country, instead we are here today talking about what? Italians are tired of hearing politicians talking about politicians. There is a country waiting for answers and waiting for them now. Now, President Conte, now is the time to move on, as you said. Enough: we break the spell that keeps a country fighting in an eternal present for decades, condemned never to change, always to make the same mistakes. A recitation that, tiredly, is repeated, in an always equal spectacle, of a self-referential policy, which puts itself and its calculations before anything else, before the common good, before the interests of the country. [[Applause]] You, President Conte, today spoke of the primacy of politics, the one at the service of the country, the one with capital P, giving a lesson to those who have been making politics for years. You see, Mr President, when I thought about the situation we are in, Montale came back to me. We, in fact, President Count, are the mistake of nature; we are that ring that does not hold; we are that thread to be unraveled that finally puts us in the middle of a truth. We of Movimento 5 Stars are that error not foreseen by the system that crashes the system itself and exposes the political corsairs. Mr President, we have done this once before when, in August of now two years ago, someone else, pursuing calculations of party interest, thought he was going to cash in and now he is opposed to barking at wheelchairs. [[Applause]] Today we have once again shown everyone the true face of a single individual who has put unsolved personal issues above the interest of the country and the community. In these days we have heard rhetorical pirouettes that distort the sense of what happened and have come to pronounce words as responsible pirouettes. This is exactly the type of system that has kept a country still and that we, together with her, are fighting and exposing, so that we do not observe the liturgies and scripts of this theater. We tell the truth without ulterior motives, nor encrypted messages and do not do what is right, but what is right. Then maybe we are wrong, of course, but we do not act for personal convenience, nor party and we do it in the sunlight. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have come to Parliament to explain the situation without inflaming yourself, and you have had the courage and humility to ask for help. President Conte, yesterday someone said that Italy needs those who point the way in the stormy sea, but that that someone cannot be you. But the opposite is true: it can only be you, because only those who have managed, with commitment and seriousness, to regain for Italy the international credibility necessary to negotiate on European tables and continue the change undertaken in European policies that we do not find difficult to define epochal. Europe had given us confidence - it had given it confidence - and today it looks at us stunned. And do not think the moderate liberals who call themselves pro-Europeans to be able to get heard in Europe by presenting themselves with the sovereigns, with those who - they did - turned with Trump's mask on their face, except then quickly tearing it from their faces when the images of Capitol Hill began to travel around the world. Too late: the stain of that mask on the face will remain for a long, very long time. No more muscle politics, which, by the way, sees women inevitably end up on the fringes of this confrontation. Mr President, we have always said this: right or left does not matter, good ideas count and now more than ever good will. We cannot pretend to ignore that the world has assumed a new polarization. Now, on the one hand, we are with you, Mr President, and with the democratic, progressive and pro-European forces, while on the other hand there are negationism, anti-science, blind sovereignism and obscurantist fanaticism. [[Comments.]] Now is the time to choose which side to be on. I shall conclude, Mr President. This day... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] . .they will be a mirror for anyone who wants to look at us and will send back an image without veils: that of those who still want to hold Italy hostage of that spell of immobilism, of a country that has not changed for decades, with a short-sighted policy based on selfishness and, that, instead of those who want to finally build a new country, founded on new foundations, leading it in the third millennium with you, President Conte, outside the palace games. This we have to offer: dignity, self-denial and clarity of conscience. There's a lot of work to do, all together for a new start. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u31	Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u32	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, colleagues, I have listened very carefully to you, Mr Conte. You spoke of your desire to turn the page, imagine the Italians; you spoke of the will to start again and - again - imagine the Italians. In these difficult months we have all proudly confided in our Italian being, in our strong and determined temperament; we have waved with pride the Tricolor, but now for many the situation is monochromatic: black pesto. The first to forget the beauty of the colours that distinguish Italy is you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. He forgets them when he proves far away from entrepreneurs, self-employed, VAT matches, artisans, the world of school, universities, law enforcement. He forgets them when, with extreme sufficiency, he talks about the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies as if it were a miserable box available for his logic of numbers. Farmers need adequate answers on specific issues which they have been waiting for too long. We cannot just praise them for their work during all these months of lockdown and closure and then treat their Dicastery as a good on the market: our farmers need more! Our agriculture is a heritage to be protected and protected always and not a commodity of political exchange with which to appeal to some interested party. [[Applause]] Forget the colours of the Mezzogiorno, the blue of our crystal clear sea, the gold of the sand of our coasts and the green of our woods. It totally forgets them when it dedicates to the development of the South and especially of my Calabria few crumbs of the recovery fund, that will not serve to bridge the gap with the Regions of the North. I remind myself that the same projects that are planned to finance with the recovery fund had already been advanced and financed, without having seen the light, with the plan for the South on 14 February. I am thinking, for example, of high speed, an essential starting point for connecting us to the rest of the country, because, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a two-speed Italy will never be able to start again and to grow again. Today a good starting point would have been to hear from her a self-criticism about what happened in recent months. We should have talked about the problems of the Italians and instead we are here to try to celebrate some new union, maybe a new government while the Italians watch in the meantime dismayed. I recognize that these are really complicated days, for her not simple; days on which you appealed to the managers and the builders, arriving late once again. The country needed those responsible for the past months; Parliament, the house of the Italians, had to be consulted first. There was a need to involve us, to welcome the proposals of the forces of CentroRextra, of Forza Italia, and you know that there have been so many. That was the time to be responsible and build, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, also because a vision is needed to build. With this government, I have strong doubts. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Italians deserve a clear and not a clear vision of the pages in black and white and unclear. It's time for those responsible, yes, the real ones, however, those who know what the country needs, and these are definitely not you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u33	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u34	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my mother always told me that between saying and doing is the sea. It's trivial, but it's true! Just take a tour of hospitals or nursing homes or hear some family about the issue of school and transport, or the confusion created by generic and anxious communications, not to believe the situation of the country that you described us. To those who asked me this morning when it will be my turn for the vaccine (I don't say the day, but at least the month), as I had to say that I don't know and I'm afraid no one yet knows what to answer, not just because there are no vaccines, but because there is not yet a serious and detailed plan to vaccinate the population. He has also described to us a governmental group that works in harmony, all prone to the good of the country, when it is all too well known and tiresome the quarreliness of the majority in addition to that between the State and the Regions. He spoke to us about parliamentary prerogatives to be restored, but, President Conte, just a few days ago you had the budget law passed, one of the most important laws for the country, with - alas - the consenting Senate, as happened in 2018, exchanging this branch of Parliament for the post office with the stamp attached. You have overwhelmed us with DPCM, then omnibus decrees, always accompanied by a vote of confidence - don't be mistaken even by chance - to arrive at the absurdity of the four decrees of rest in one, obviously accompanied by hundreds of necessary decrees of implementation so much to help the flagned simplification. He also announced a keen interest in proportional electoral law. Mr President, that is not your job; it is not your job to favour or hinder. [[Applause]] This is a parliamentary prerogative. It has announced a necessary turning point; I think so too, but a turning point cannot take place in continuity with the current government structure, even less if supported by a collectible majority founded on those who were contemptuously called a turncoat and who now make Saviors of the Homeland rise. This is not to be responsible, let alone builders, but I ask my colleagues what is responsible for the tetragonal positions, which seem almost like diktats, which normally, especially the 5 Star Movimento colleagues take on? These positions range from the end of the trial never, to the situation of the prisons you have visited, from 100 to the defeat of poverty with the income of citizenship and its navigators, from the demagogic cut of the parliamentarians to the equally demagogic rejection of the ESM. Beware that I am not defending Senator Renzi, who, self-centered as he is, would not even appreciate it. I'm saying all these things were open long before the tear you were so surprised about. The real responsibility for me is to take these years and months not to make a living, but to finally write a Next generation EU that meets the objectives and instruments defined in Europe. I hope that the draft you sent us on January 12 is really a very first version to be rewritten almost completely. Dear colleagues, it's no coincidence that it's called Next generation and it's not called next election; okay? Therefore, it is not possible to continue and I have read and studied it carefully. These days we need a strong and responsible government and its - I regret to say - was not before and, even more so, it will not be tomorrow. Dear friends, I want to dedicate this speech to Emanuele Macaluso, who left us this morning and who I am sure the Senate will celebrate and remember in due form. [[Applause]] I dedicate the intervention to him because his origin from the Communist Party has never prevented him and, indeed, has allowed him to practice dialogues and comparisons with representatives of other parties and to value the fact that in politics count ideas and not only arithmetic and numbers. That is why I will not vote for you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. As you know, I have neither preclusive nor demagogic attitudes. When you made initiatives that I shared (all the European supply chain, to put it bluntly), I supported you with great conviction. But I'm afraid you'll waste this opportunity. It's my greatest fear, because the country is wasting it, not a government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my fellow senators, a couple of centuries ago a gentleman named Talleyrand, Prince of Benevento, political personality, as well as ecclesiastical, decidedly deeper into the arcane empires of a Rocco Casalino and significantly more prone to the transformation of a Clemente Mastella, said that the word was given to men to mask their thinking and to fake reality. Listening to you today, Mr Conte, we have confirmed this. From the search for majorities in Parliament to the delegation of the secret services, from Europeanism to populism, from the condition of our economy to the condition of our health care, his words today were clearly in contradiction with his words yesterday; and his words yesterday, like his words today, were and were in clear contradiction with the reality of the facts. The reality is that from now on your government is politically weaker than it was before. And in this branch of Parliament, clearly, you will not have an absolute majority of votes. How this can represent a step forward is an incomprehensible mystery for us. Two governments, President Count, or perhaps even three governments in three years are the clear and unequivocal proof of its indisputable ability to float and transform, which perhaps someone will appreciate; but they are also the clear and unequivocal proof of a clear political inability, which I believe cannot be appreciated by anyone. That this government was failing on the economic and health front in this House did not just say that Matteo Renzi; everyone, but everyone, the MPs of the Democratic Party and the major members of LEU said so. [[Applause]] And they did not say that a year ago; they said that in recent days, in the last debate we had in this House. The same representatives of the Democratic Party and the same representatives of Italy Viva who said that the plan of rebirth and resilience, launched by its Government or, better, sketched by its Government, was late and was resoundingly inadequate. This delay and inadequacy are reflected in the future of the country. How can we think that this new government or a possible Count two remodelled can do better than the little that has been done up to today is a mystery of faith. Nothing has changed in substance; nothing has changed for the better in substance. For what obscure reason should a majority purified by Renzi and metaphorically repulsed by Clemente Mastella instill in this Government that vision and that political force which, with all evidence, this Government has not had until today? And why should this government be more pro-European than it was until yesterday? And why, I ask myself, did a President-in-Office of the Council, who held (only in history) the delegation to the secret services, thereby jeopardising their effectiveness (as you admitted to the House yesterday), suddenly develop that sense of the institutions which should be the presupposition of its function? President Conte, as I told you in this House at the beginning of the pandemic, I believe that only a megalomaniac or a cynic can reasonably think of pulling Italy out of the sandboxes in which it ended without resorting to the strength of all. And when I say everyone, I mean all the parties represented in Parliament, all the administrative levels of the state, all the institutional levels. You, I can't say if because of narcissism, cynicism, lack of political culture or lack of sense of state, you didn't. The displacement of its majority, the crisis of its Government, the ineffectiveness and inefficiency of its Government show that it has been a serious, very serious mistake, which is very likely to undermine the future of those next generations that the European Commission has put as an ideal interlocutor to the Member States. So, Mr. Conte, I repeat this to you and I also tell the friends of the opposition: if we do not make a government of broad understanding today, I believe and fear that we will be forced to do so tomorrow, but in a context of economic crisis and ruins far more serious than what is being manifested today and with the breath of the Troika on the neck. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u37	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u38	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, I only have two minutes left, and I must ensure that the disadvantage of having such a limited time can be an advantage through a concise and incisive communication. I would like to recall a passage from the speech on the international commitments that Italy will have to face during the year. More specifically, I am talking about COP26, which will see Italy hosting events in Milan that are part of this historic moment that connects to the Treaty of Paris to combat climate change. In the draft of the recovery fund the expectations of tracing a concrete and determined effort towards that direction were confirmed. I believe that perhaps more can be done in the parliamentary passages, and thanks also to the competences, the comfort and the support of political action by the ministries concerned, I am sure that this objective will be achieved. It is good that the direction of green hydrogen and the theme that is revolutionising around us, not only in Europe, is maintained in the near future. For my part and also for the Group on whose behalf I am speaking today, MAIE-Italy 23, there will be the support and conviction to give support to you and this Government, with the hope that the objective to be achieved, beyond the obvious considerations of climate, environment and the three Ps (people, planet and prosperity) that all impact on it, can achieve a concreteness and effective application. This objective concerns not only the environment, but our society and the ability to modernise this country, to be on the front line of the countries, our competitors and European partners, to be at the forefront in the technological solutions that can involve the whole supply chain, industrial and not only. This is an objective for which - as you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and the Ministers know very well - we have the strength and the powers. Let us go on like this: maximum confidence in you and a willingness to cooperate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Nicola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Conte, you have rightly said that precisely at the most critical moments in a country's history we must find again the noble and high reasons of politics, where politics is understood as thought and actions oriented to man, his needs and his expectations. Then I ask: what is the point of this crisis right now? Like many Italians, I think that all this makes no sense, although Senator Renzi tries to make us imagine one. Senator Renzi reminded me of the ballad de "L'apprendista witch" by Goethe, in which the helper of an old master of spells can no longer stop the crazy broom that, with a magic word, gave life: at first tries to stop her talking to her, but, failing to repeat the spell, breaks her in two to block her; It's just that the two stumps keep ripping his house apart. Here, this ballad fits perfectly with Senator Renzi and his relations with this majority and with politics. [[Applause]] I think it is the least suitable moment, Senator Renzi (if there is), to start playing the sorcerer apprentice, since it will not be a spell to get us out of the pandemic, to make us forget the thousands of deaths for Covid-19 and the burden of pain in the hearts of millions of Italians; those same Italians who today ask us concrete answers to their needs. Turning the page, as you invite us to do, President Conte, means first of all to archive the ugly nightmare that Senator Renzi is making live to the Italians, recovering the time that made us lose. And it is on the right track, confirming that the confidence that public opinion continues to show it is deserved and justified, in the face of politicians who love to get lost in the media, disconnected from the reality with which every day Italians are called to reckon and fight. The reality tells us that the risks in this era of Covid-19 are to say the least frightening, because they speak of unemployment, Cassa Integrazione, demand for credit and the unprecedented collapse of the real economy; these are open issues, which this government has been looking for for for a year... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I could quote the raw data of this drama, repeat the figures and estimates that other senators have already quoted in abundance, but I want Save it for you. Faced with this situation, in the parliamentary dispersion, daughter of a non-excellent electoral law and which certainly did not want us, I would like to stress instead that a general mobilization of politics and consciences is rather necessary, as the Senator Segre teaches, whom I thank and greet, in the name of loyal republican collaboration. If the citizens ask us this, I believe that in order to achieve the objective it is useless to turn to the League and Brothers of Italy, political forces proudly insensitive to the unifying anti-fascist and resistential values, which are founding of our Republic. They play at the wreck thinking about their particular, just continuing to ask ourselves if we have... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] But why do you have the numbers, to demand the ruin? You only have the mirages of the polls that push you to the challenge, to push Italy to adventure. [[Applause]] A dream of revenge cultivated at the worst moment for the citizens, just as in this country you suffer and you die. On the other hand, it is worth addressing the European, liberal, Catholic and democratic sensibilities present in our country and which, fortunately, have authoritative representatives in this House. I could say to these esteemed colleagues that they now have on the table the political project of this majority and this government, with the invitation to cooperation to improve it. There are the lines to start this country to change, with extensive interventions in the economy, for the development of the Mezzogiorno, for the reform of justice and for the fiscal one, for a modernization of our institutional architecture that, after the cut of the parliamentarians, could be enriched and reinvigorated by the introduction of a law, as has been said, of proportional electoral system. These are the best conditions to deploy your liberal, Catholic-reformist vocations, freeing them from the iron heel of a forced majority alliance with an extremist sovereignism that does not belong to you. A reform project to which you will be able to contribute in order to return to Parliament with your strength and above all with your ideals, from Sturzo to Einaudi, who in this supreme hour, in the alternative between ruin and reconstruction, certainly question your consciences. Nevertheless, you colleagues in the centre-right continue to ask us if we have the numbers to govern. In the face of the problems of the citizens, prey to the pandemic, you should ask us how much time we have to win the war - as Winston Churchill said when addressing the British Parliament under the attack of the Nazis - the war against the virus. We have two years in front of us, two years of nightmare and challenging, but that can be an opportunity for this political class, if we can together give hope and certainty to the country. You also ask what our policy is. Our policy is the one outlined by President Conte in this House: to strive with all our strength to defeat the enemy that today is called Covid-19, to complete the recovery plan and to give the country the reforms it needs. This is our policy, with the objective - today and then - of winning, yes, the victory at all costs against the pandemic and the social emergency so that, no matter how long and difficult the road may be, without the victory in this invisible war there is no dignified survival for this country, as there is no survival for this political class. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office, head-on. The challenge is great: we have our trust and courage. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u41	Colleagues, I suspend the session until 13:35 to allow sanitization. (The sitting was suspended at 12.37 p.m. and resumed at 13.39 p.m.) The session is resumed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u42	Mr President, I am sorry that the President-in-Office of the Council is not here at the moment, because I must address him, as President of the Council and as Delegated Authority for Services. Here, the President-in-Office of the Council - and with him the forces who support him - has asked us to move on. This is the third time you have proposed this in this House. The first time he did it when, in June 2018, he made a government that, not by chance, was called "change," because he had to move on from those of the left who had preceded him. The Government of Change ended by choosing one of the contractors and, in the summer of 2019, another was born, with the same President of the Council, who told us in this House that we needed to move on. Admittedly, he wanted to turn the page over to what the Deputy Prime Minister of the First Government had done, Mr Di Maio - who is here and whom I thank - when, in exemplifying the change of the First Government, he went to France, as leader of the 5 Star Movement, to sway - as the French President then thought - the yellow vests against Macron, to the point that France was about to withdraw its ambassador. Then there was a government that rebelled, also led by Count, with the same relative majority of the 5 Star Movement. The second government was born instead in the rooms of the European Commission, as you say, colleagues, of Angela Merkel and Macron himself, to whom you are selling everything: I am thinking of the sale of FIAT, supported in silence; the acquisition of Italian Stock Exchange, for which yesterday's appointments reveal that, even in that case, governance is French; up to everything that moves in the Italian financial and banking system, about which we will talk on other occasions. That government was born with a dark page: I do not say it, but the same representatives of the majority, and the same President of the Council said it in this House a few hours ago when he asked us members of the Copasir to shed light on those dark pages. It was born on a dark page, which according to a leader of the coalition and the man who imposed the second Conte Government, Matteo Renzi, took place in August 2019, during the visit of the American Minister of Justice Barr, welcomed by the President of the Council: it was August 15. That page today is turned again, for the third time, to create a minority government. It is paradoxical that the President-in-Office of the Council calls on liberals, populars, socialists and pro-Europeans, at the very moment when the majority is lacking, because the most liberal, socialist, most popular and most pro-European political force abandons it. With what credibility does he appeal to liberals, populars and pro-Europeans, at the same time as Italy Viva abandons that coalition, why does he not consider it sufficiently liberal, popular and pro-European? So much so: in the new language worthy of Orwell's Big Brother this is reality. I ask the Presidency to give me one minute more time so that I can explain the essence of my speech. What, then, does Count ask? You're asking the Copasir to light up? Sure. The majority ask to shed light on what happened with the cyber foundation and on why you suddenly put it and excluded it: the allusions are all internal to the majority. What happened on the hacking of the Council Presidency's website? Mr President, a majority member asks us to be able to shed light on this and also on what happened when Barr came to Italy. It also asks us to shed light on what authoritative journalists in a European newspaper write about what once would have been called the sound of sabres. All this happens within the majority. We are respectful - we, yes, indeed - of the role of intelligence and institution; we, yes, indeed, ask you not to involve him in your bagars, in your suspicions and in your recriminations and negotiations. Do not involve them and, if possible, also appoint those vice directors of the Services that have been waiting for months to be appointed, so the intelligence at this time is missing half, because they too are in the cauldron of the government negotiations. Well, tomorrow the Copasir will also take care of this - he can not fail to do so - but, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us clarify a concept (I am addressing you, even if you are present): first he said that the reform of the Services is a matter for Parliament; of course, it is a pity that you yourself took over these powers a few months ago, when you radically changed the rule on the appointment of the directors of the Agencies with a blitz in the darkness - as the majority defined it - by imposing it on Parliament and forcing it with a vote of confidence. You yourself did that raid by amending a law that today says is Parliament's exclusive competence. What are we talking about? We want to understand this, too, because this language, accusations, recriminations and this fury of sabres are not pleasing to Parliament. Colleagues five stars, each page you turn is increasingly cloudy, more mysterious and more intriguing: something other than transparency; the country must know it and must understand, in conclusion, why in this verification, more important than the government team, more important than the recovery fund and even more important than the... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] .. to the Secret Service. What are you hiding or threatened among yourselves? The country must know and it will know, be serene - I say this to Renzi first of all, who uses this language, but also to the President of the Count Council - and both be quiet, because we will ensure the facts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mangialavori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that the President-in-Office of the Council is not here. I would like to read briefly some quite recent statements by a statesman, which are absolutely current and which should guide your political conduct at this time, Minister Di Maio: in Italy, in addition to the smart cards, there are Parliament's turncoats. [[Applause]] ; from 2013 to 2017 there have been 388 party changes, a real cow market, which must be stopped; many governments have stood up and made them try the worst scum thanks to the turncoat; the most shameful laws in the history of the Republic have voted precisely thanks to the traitors of the popular mandate; call it what you want, bond of mandate, institutional seriousness, respect of the popular will; no one is denied the right to change their mind, but, if you do, go home and get re-elected. This was the first statement of a statesman: it was 2017 when these words were spoken by a well-known Italian intellectual and current politician, whose identity we will reveal from here shortly. And again, another gem: just the market for fat cows, it is time to introduce the mandate bond. I regret that some ministers are - I don't know if voluntarily - distracted. Again: we will make a constitutional change and we will insert the dictation of the Constitution of Portugal which, in Article 170, says that those who enter Parliament with a party and then change it return home. It is even superfluous and unnecessary to specify the identity of this theorist of political coherence. These passionate as Jacobine statements were by the current Foreign Minister, Mr Luigi Di Maio. Well, today, that politician, currently Minister of Foreign Affairs, to justify one of the most squalid palace operations you have put in place, uses instead sought-after and absolutely hypocritical words: we have thousands of victims for the Covid-19, a worrying level of contagion and a recovery fund to spend. Actually, you still have to structure it, the recovery fund. And then it goes on: the European values of solidarity, protection, human dignity and equality must unite us in the plan to carry Italy forward at such a difficult time. Therefore, all manufacturers - no more fat cows - who want to contribute to the relaunch of the country are welcome. Here, the parliamentarians who changed their minds before were turncoats, traitors and cattle for sale at the cow market. Now they become noble builders. [[Applause]] Today falls, therefore, the last of the false bulwarks of a Movimento 5 Stars even more false, born with principles in valid theory, but resoundingly and daily denied by reality and your behavior. Let me give you an example: never with the Democratic Party or with the Biblical Party, you said. Yes, it is with PD. No alliances! Yes to alliances. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I could continue: yes to streaming, you said, but you no longer see it on the web. At the beginning of the legislature you had the courage to expel some senator from your movement because he had not paid refunds. Have the courage to say it, that you are now taking it back. So, those principles that you decanted and flaunted, with respect to an alleged loyalty to the movement, are now erased. Who was outside the Movimento 5 Stars, like Senator Buccarella, who also lent himself first to intervene, is now taken from the second door and brought back by President Conte. I could list some of these statements, which concern the President-in-Office of the Council or the Democratic Party, with regard to consistency, but unfortunately time prevents me from doing so. This, however, should suffice, if you had a minimum of dignity, to make you ashamed and to apologize to all those voters to whom you had asked for a consensus by deceiving them of a revolution and who today, on the other hand, are faced with the worst party the Italian Republic has ever seen. [[Applause]] Today you have also decapitated the last principle: "no fat cows, no turncoats" today becomes "yes builders." Shame on you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u45	She's enlisted to speak Senator Floridia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u46	Mr President, Mr Conte, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin my speech from a clear vulnus. Don't worry, Mr. Conte, it's not the democratic one you've been accused of. This is semantically what I'm talking about, because it's a damage, a wound inflicted by the current crisis in our country. After the damage, however, there is the mockery of not having understood the reasons. I saw the effort to explain them to unified televisions and at the press conference the unreasonable reasons; I also noticed a certain spectacularization, clearly necessary, that served to motivate the crisis on the part of those who triggered it. You will forgive me, though, if I have not understood it equally. It may be because I am a mere citizen given to politics and not a long-term politician, but to me, in full pandemic, a crisis still seems senseless. It has also been said in this House that a crisis is needed to talk to each other and put the issues at the table. No, ladies and gentlemen, words are needed to speak to each other and not crises. It has been explained that this crisis serves to blackmail the difficulties of a majority already in crisis. No, there was no crisis. It was and is, you will forgive me, democratic liturgy following the so-called rosatellum, that is, various political forces that struggle to dialogue using words and finding a common way for the good of the country. [[Applause]] This crisis was to explain to us that the Constitution is not an Instagram story. Don't worry, we all have already clarified the importance of the Constitution and the fact that it is not an Instagram story in the 2016 referendum. [[Applause]] However, ladies and gentlemen, I promise you that I will learn to understand the syntax and art of this contemporary policy, if this is, at least to understand it, not to emulate it. I'll learn why the art of politics - high or low - you can learn, while loyal collaboration doesn't, you have it or you don't have it. [[Applause]] In the end, faced with such stubbornness in wanting to explain and in front of my amazement of not knowing exactly and not understanding, I asked to speak with Minister Spadafora to see if it is possible to insert among the extreme sports the climbing on the mirrors with triple slipped, obviously with pandemic fire below, to see the effect it does. [[Applause]] Mr President, it is the fall and putting to the ground of athletes and citizens that I have some fear. We'll see. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if, as a result of this crisis, we were all to go home, I would do so with difficulty and not because a trade does not have it. I've had a job for almost 20 years and would take me back to a class of boys between the ages of sixteen and eighteen. What face would I come back with? Tell those kids what? That we stopped everything while their parents had closed stores and their grandparents died? [[Applause]] What do I tell my kids in class? For the honour of being here, let me go back to class when it is time and I can tell you the greatness of this Parliament. [[Applause]] Let me go back to class when I can tell that Italy was great, above itself. Which side do we want to be on, colleagues? From our small, party, limited part or that of the Italians, that is, of all of us? Today is the time to be not selfish, but heroic. Today you choose what to be or become. I trust in you and us that you have more experience than I do. In fact, Mr President, I am sure that you will find many colleagues on your side today, because I have felt the weight, the value and the strength in the Commissions and I know that many will choose in conscience and will have the ability to choose what is right. I cannot speak for them, however, but for the Movimento 5 Stars, which, in the face of the legislative pact, the vision of this Government, the measures carried out and the measures at stake, a country launched on green investments, new digital structures, more and more resources for school and territorial medicine, and, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for an increasingly European country, with this new Europe which we have also rejected thanks to you, will always be at your side, because you are loyal and serious. [[Applause]] The greatness in the pandemic serves and is not improvised, but proves itself. Since crises do not transform people, but reveal them, everyone in this House today will be revealed for what it is. Colleagues, it is true that we do not go back and the veil has fallen, but it is not the king who is naked, we are all, in the face of the crisis and every Italian citizen; we are all naked in front of the virus. Starting with the conclusion, since someone has dared to raise this deadly dust with the phrase of a fairy tale, let me remind all of us and even our children who are at home that fairy tales are not used to teach them that there are villains, monsters, dragons, irresponsible and viruses in the world; this children already know, as we know. Fairy tales serve to teach them - and also to us great - that the bad guys, the dragons, the monsters, the irresponsible and even the viruses can be defeated. [[Applause]] Let's tell this fairy tale to the Italians. We're with her. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u47	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u48	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I never imagined in my life that I would make the praise of Senator Salvini and his courage for responsibility today, which I acknowledge. I acknowledge that, after a month from the election, he managed, with a contemptuous sense of the media danger, to break the pact of political solidarity with Forza Italia and the Brothers of Italy and was the builder for the unprecedented alliance with the hated five stars. It was said, from the Left, that the operation was transformist and that he looked much like Mastella, who had so much criticized. Then the legislature went on in a difficult way: despite the high numbers of parliamentary support, quarrels, logics and growing incommunicability led to division and political breakup. Even then - and there was no existential and human drama of the Covid - the country was rumbling and anger was mounting against the institutions. Here, with a stroke of genius, climb the stage an undisputed protagonist, Matteo Renzi. Elected with the PD, he left that party, founded one of his own and realized a political masterpiece: with the courage of responsibility he put together the Guelphs and Ghibellines, he forgets the vocabulary and judicial complaints by the five stars and, miracle, he makes a Government with them. The Boatos from Right shout at the scandal; some well-known media and some virgins of wounded political morality say that it mimics Mastella. Mr Meloni spoke with contempt of an airline from the Mastella family with the floor in the House yesterday. I would therefore like to remind Mr Meloni, who, with hypocrisy, forgot about it, but also to the House, as well as to the Italians, who used the comfortable Scilipoti plane to keep his place as Minister in the Berlusconi Government (let us not forget this), that he stood, after the duel with Fini, only thanks to the contribution of Scilipoti. Unbelievable forgetfulness, for a spotless woman who makes morality a hypocritical battlehorse. For the history, the Meloni made the minister thanks to Scilipoti. Why didn't he have a crisis of conscience? Why didn't he do heroin, say no to the votes they came to the other side? Why wasn't she ashamed to fly with the Scilypoti areas lines? In fact, we'd be curious to know how you were on Scilypoti's airbus. What a moral duplicity! But do us a favor, to tell the Totò! A duplicity and a totally immoral livor! Let's get to today. The country is terribly marked by a health and social apocalypse; the parties that support the government no longer greet themselves politically; there is a sense of unprecedented loss around. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, please give me a minute, because everyone has spoken more.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u49	She had already been granted it before she asked.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u50	LONARDO (Mixed). Thank you very much, Mr President, you are always so kind. A group of parliamentarians, with the courage of responsibility, the same shown by Salvini and Renzi at other times, make choices not to support the form of government, but of love for the country, and shouts at the scandal. There is a substantial difference, however: Salvini becomes responsible and commander with the rank of vice premier; Renzi tries to kick his experience born of not much with a patrol of Ministers and my responsibility - I speak for myself - he has asked nothing, he asks nothing, he will ask nothing and he will have nothing. I do this because who, like me, started as a young girl abroad as a migrant with his family has always had an immense affection for Italy. This is how remoteness makes sense, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Today the country demands from those who love it not a crisis of government, but generous slenders and governability; it is exhausted, bloody, distended, the square wheel no longer spins, the scissors between rich and poor widens... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] The middle class is struggling and stuttering insecurity. The need is greater: half a million more unemployed. For these reasons, I feel responsible and constructor - say it your way - and I will give my vote to President Conte's pro-European government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lomuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u52	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, members of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the coming months Italy is playing a great deal of its social and economic future. We are at a sudden and even dramatic turning point in our history. In recent years we have all believed that the global financial crisis of 2007 was destined to become for the collective imagination of our generation what the great depression, following the collapse of Wall Street in 1929, was for the generation of our grandparents, but we had not dealt with Coronavirus, which generated an unprecedented global crisis, has caused new social inequalities and has also complicated the political agenda of the Government. Mr President, I thank you, the Ministers and the technicians for what you have done, are doing and will continue to do together. We were the first to introduce lockdown, a measure that generated suffering, but that was necessary. I welcome the decision to protect health in order to protect the economy. This was when someone in here suffered from communicative schizophrenia. More than 150 billion have been put in place to protect families, businesses and workers. Italy is the first in the administration of vaccines. We have achieved the superbonus in order to restart the building through the energy redevelopment of the whole country, not to mention the very important role that has had the income of citizenship, which must be enhanced and improved in the perspective of the active policies of the job. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, I don't have time to mention all the actions. Mr President, it is thanks to you that the European Union's paradigm has changed vis-à-vis the Member States: no longer strict, but inclusive. The Next generation EU is proof of this. Of course, there is still a lot to do, but you, Mr President, are the right person at the right time. [[Applause]] , because I seriously doubt that someone else in his place would have managed to get 209 billion from Europe to invest in his own country. The first challenge we cannot miss is the recovery plan: 222 billion euros coated on three axes (digitalization and innovation, ecological transition and social inclusion). And everything sees the citizen at the heart of politics. We have not stopped working: in the near future there will be a budgetary deviation and a new order for rest. Then why this crisis? In my opinion, the cause lies in the too much personalization of politics, that is, when the interests of people, families, businesses and workers are placed before that of the party or of its own person. This was already the case in 2019, when the story of who started that crisis prevailed over the noble spirits of politics; a story that, beyond the newspapers and television genuflesse, tells its unreliability and its little, very little credibility. And that hurts, colleagues, politics and, consequently, the country. I appreciate the transparency of your appeal, brought to this House with your programme. I am amazed by the criticism of those who accuse you of haggling parliamentarians; those criticisms come from those who ruled us with Razzi and Scilipoti, from those who in this legislature really paraded senators to other political comrades. And to the colleagues of Brothers of Italy I address an invitation: do not come here to restore a political purity that you do not have. [[Applause]] Your leader has a long political career behind him, made up of cuts to the detriment of Italian citizens in school, health care and infrastructure; there is only the embarrassment of choice. He voted in the Council of Ministers on the ESM, when he was Minister, and on the balance of the budget, even if you now pretend to oppose it. It voted on the Dublin Treaty, which penalises Italy in managing immigration. He was part of that majority that voted in Parliament for the kinship between Ruby and Uncle Mubarak. But let us come to us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You are here in the light of day - that is the difference - with a clear and precise proposal, in full transparency. Let's see who's in; it's the day of choices. We're at your side. We have listened very carefully to his every word, because every word here today will be a piece of the future of Italy. His program and appeal, simple and clear, have our trust, because they are finally talking about a new world. Mr President, let me make a few comments. I am very pleased with your reference to the South, because there is a southern issue still open. With a strong South, Italy will be even more united. This can only be done by us, not by those who in their genesis have hatred for the South and have generated some institutional representatives in the South, but by not realizing that they are only a living political oxymoron. The protection of linguistic minorities (the Arbereshe community, for example, which is the heritage of our country, awaits this intervention) and the attention to compliance with environmental standards. We also need a strong reform of the state machine. Now we move forward with digitisation, innovation, green revolution, ecological transition (we push on green hydrogen), infrastructure for sustainable mobility, education and research, inclusion and cohesion. We strengthen health and intervene on Title V of the Constitution. Mr President, if it is true that the way we choose to see the world is the way the world will be, then in this project of rebirth of Italy we are with you: for us, trust in it remains unchanged. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u53	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u54	Mr President, Count I was for sovereignism and explained to us that the Constitution says that sovereignty belongs to the people (we knew that). Count II has decreed death to sovereignism. Count I used to say "live Trump" and someone even accused him of shady dealing with him. Count II says "Viva Biden." Instead, tell Biden to leave a few Pfizer vaccines for Europe, as they seem to go more to her court than they do here. [[Applause]] Harlequin served two masters. You could go beyond the Goldonian fantasy and be President Recordman, as Monti says, of three majorities. You say you have a clear plan: which one? We have had more deaths than other countries. On vaccines, like other countries, we struggle. Look at Israel doing this. There are no adequate refreshments, because this has happened. You speak of a strong ideal content, of moving on and you give us - your goodness - to discuss the recovery plan in Parliament. But it is a duty of democracy to confront the Senate and Parliament [[Applause]] , and not a concession from Count. The stability law, however, you had us examine it in one day: this was Parliament's transparency. You do the tests of Europeanism: to whom? To us? Forza Italia is part of the PPE and claims, with Berlusconi and Tajani, the action to give money to countries that have suffered from the virus coming from China. [[Applause]] And don't give yourself credit you don't have. You failed the European exams: today - take the newspapers - Gentiloni, your friend, failed the plan on the recovery plan because there are no time programmes and serious proposals. Senator Monti, have you read the papers today, you who have given the stamp of Europeanism to these domes? That's what happened. Stay on your knees before China, which denies freedom and democracy, which makes unfair competition for Italian and European companies. You have abandoned your VAT games and, when you are not kneeling in front of China, you are kneeling in front of Amazon, Google, Facebook: these days you had to pay the web tax and you have not been paid. Did you do it on purpose or because you are incapable? I think there's something going on. [[Applause]] You speak of a return to proportionality, but there will be no such restoration, because the united centre-right, which pursues the reasons of bipolarism, direct democracy, presidentialism, as Berlusconi pointed out many years ago, means no to a law that serves only to transformism. Other than opening up to some sectors of the centre-right: it is exactly the opposite. And, as the electoral law belongs to Parliament, it will be Parliament that will prevent this restoration. He discovered Catholics, but what did he do for the family, to protect the nascent life, to protect children and mothers who have no support? Nothing, nothing. [[Applause]] Meditate euthanasia and more, and you have restored in the past few days the horrendous phrase "parent 1" and "parent 2": this is your policy for Catholics, and everyone knows it. Look, my friend Paola Binetti knows, too. You have witnessed the sale of Italian companies. Now even the Iveco should be sold. You celebrated the future of Whirlpool. Well, go today with Di Maio to Whirlpool in Campania, which is about to close its doors. You have seen the shameful appointment of Padoan, who went from the PD Parliament to the Presidency of Unicredit to cover the magicians of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. [[Applause]] , of the disasters caused at the expense of the citizens by the managements - dear Monti - of the PCI-PDS-PD. Did you know this? Did you notice this discount? Padoan, Unicredit, MPS. Are teachers of conflict of interest on vacation? You were supposed to open Parliament's tuna can, but you managed to seal it from the inside. They'll give you the Nobel Prize in Engineering! [[Applause]] You've sealed up and sealed up the box: that's what you've done. You have abused decrees, votes of confidence, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. You triggers are the supercaste: you were against the problem of transformation, you were for the bond of mandate and you are chasing everyone. Dear President Count, they are not builders: do not abuse the term used by Mattarella. Those you're chasing are the palaces. [[Applause]] , those who made abusive houses and do not have a building license. It's not that with some extra palazzinara she goes far. We too thought we were going far in Parliament, or Prodi years ago; the senators were different for life, but the system and the applause were the same. So it is not that enlisting more Fantetti than Fantocci will go far; nor with moderate Lombards of Sala and Tabacci. Now Di Maio will change his name and it will be called "Di Maie"; as she was "Giuseppi", "Gigino" will be called "Di Maie", it will have a new name. This is the "By May" government! One last appeal: solidarity with the workers of the platform "Rousseau" who are on strike; they do not ask the people to grill to know what they think, with direct streaming. The platform 'Rousseau', which you used to judge the votes of the Junta that I chair, is now on strike. They must have been fired. You wiped out democracy to stay in here. Last night, President Conte, La7 broadcast the movie "The Art of Arrangement." I don't know if they did it thinking of you; it's an old film by Alberto Sordi, who was a socialist, a fascist, a communist, a Christian Democrat. I saw him after a while. The difference is that Alberto Sordi was a great actor and he was funny. You make Italy cry, and that is why we shall vote no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u55	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u56	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, one prerequisite is a duty. We think there is a sidereal distance between the royal country and the palace. In the real country we have people who can't take it anymore and who, if it's okay, make 10% of last year's turnover; we have queues in front of Caritas, the middle class is falling, people are exasperated. Mr President, many people hoped for a much better beginning of 2021. On the other hand, there is the Palace, which does everything to preserve power, power for power. It's an indecorous spectacle. [[Applause]] We have seen in recent days attempts to convince parliamentarians, sudden unlocks of resources in that of Benevento, which has become the navel of the world for a few days now. [[Applause]] It is really all incomprehensible from so many citizens. And then all this triumphalism: gentlemen, we are on the verge of a social revolt, there is little to celebrate. They're coming for us soon, and I'm not kidding. These are the real risks of politics. Keep in mind what I'm saying now. [[Applause]] But let us come to your speech, Mr President-in-Office. I have to say, your speeches are quite similar. I reread that of September 10, 2019 and the words are always the same, and I marked them because they are really very cute: "We work for the national interest", "more fair and inclusive society", "program to reform", "new humanism", which today instead has become the primacy of the person, "Europeanist vocation", "blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. President, can you explain to us what you have done - apart from the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers - in this year and a half of government? You want to explain it to the Italians? [[Applause]] I hear that this majority has achieved convergence of views and decisiveness of action. Excuse me, ma'am, where do you live? Its government is the Government of referrals, of the "unless otherwise agreed," of the "immobilism," of the inability to act. Can you explain to me what happened to the reform of justice? Will you explain to me, after a year and a half, that you have unblocked construction sites, since the commissioners have not yet been appointed to unblock the great works? [[Applause]] Tell me, do you own the delegation on this matter, where is a rag of draft reform of the procurement code? [[Applause]] Does it tell us where public administration reform and tax reform are? You, in your speech, told us that there was a pandemic and so you had to have other priorities. President. - I call all my colleagues. Reforms are fundamental to getting out of the pandemic. When you talk about the recovery fund (20 billion on the one hand, 30 billion on the other, 40 on the other and 50 on the other) that's fine, but know that if you don't make the reforms - ask Senator Monti, who means European issues - and I quote the reform of justice, public administration reform and labour reform, Europe doesn't give you the money and doesn't give it to us. [[Applause]] That's the real problem. They don't give us money from the European Union! It is not enough to make a written document of three hundred pages in which you list what your projects are, because there are clear and obvious conditionalitys, which are to make the reforms. So, Mr President, how is it possible that, with a handful of leaders, you can do those reforms that you have not managed to do in a year and a half? Can you explain how that's possible? You make an appeal to the socialists, to the people, to the reformists, to the liberals. Gentlemen, do we know what kind of government you're dealing with? In the end it would mean reconciling diametrically opposed positions. On the subject of justice, how can we reconcile the guarantee of the traditional culture of centre with the justiceism of Bonafede and Travaglio? How is that possible? That would be impossible. [[Applause]] On the theme of family and family policies, but how do you reconcile the values of mother and father with parent one and parent two? [[Applause.]] But how is that possible? There's a limit to everything. You can't put the devil and the holy water together. Then, Mr President, your appeal to the European vocation is no longer credible, and I say it with all the affection I can. The European Chancellors themselves can no longer do so: they are indisputable for the bonuses and tips they continue to spend; unproductive spending is exactly the opposite of what Europe is asking for. [[Applause.]] That is the truth; 20 billion out of 40 billion economic maneuver. Let's also say that on bilateral meetings you are penultimate in the ranking. Recently the testimony came out that Italy in Europe is absolutely isolated. Change the register, this issue is gone. The same gates don't want you anymore, they're tired. Mr President, we cannot even say that we take an extra vote and then we see what happens, basically looking for any Count, a government that is paper. Shame on you! A minimum of decency! [[Applause.]] The country needs safe and determined guidance, with a perspective. We're in the middle of a pandemic, in the middle of an economic crisis. It takes a firm government with a certain leadership; what you certainly do not have today. Take note of this, compared to that political majority of which the President of the Republic spoke so much in August 2019. Without Renzi, that political majority is gone. [[Applause]] Take note of this and resign [[Applause]] , even more so if you don't even get 161 votes. It would be a serious political act not having an absolute majority. You're afraid of the vote. Some say there's fear of voting. You know very well that we are not going to vote. Maybe we could say. You know we're not going to vote. Imagine if there isn't a plan b, a plan c, a plan d, a plan e. Let alone vote today that the centre-right is a majority in the country. I don't believe it. [[Applause.]] President, it is only a question of whether there is an alternative to the President of the Count Council, an alternative to this Government. Well, let's give the word to the Head of State: he will evaluate and verify what is going to happen in a very transparent and clear way. I shall begin with the conclusion of my speech. Is it possible, President, that Italy is his hostage and the Italians of his DPCMs? For the Giallorossi majority it seems that this Count is truly untouchable. I honestly don't explain it, because the PD jumps into his arms, when he knows very well that with the proportional system he will make his party and take away even a few votes. It's really hard to understand this. At least the interests of one's own party should be taken into account from time to time, and I do not say those of the country. The 5 Star Movimento was distorted by Count. Gentlemen, let us be clear: with the President-in-Office of the Council today, one is worth one has become one is worth the other. That's pretty clear to me. [[Applause.]] This is the real issue we need to address. Even, in the name of Count, you have sacrificed two young and brilliant leaders such as Di Maio and Di Battista. In the name of what? You have completely distorted a political party after the President of the Council was the first to launch an Opa on the 5 Star Movement. But I say, a little dignity, a little will to defend what has always been. How come this Count can't be touched? Who will ever be this President-in-Office of the Council so untouchable, that it even seems that all the strong powers - monsignor, cardinals, I don't want to say anything else - are being moved to try somehow to win him confidence? Why does a President-in-Office of the Council succeed in concentrating all power in the hands of a few people, resetting constitutional guarantees and in fact also the rights of freedom? How does this seem possible to you? Is that really possible? [[Applause]] We don't think so. Do you remember, Mr President, when you said in your speech that there is a need for men, not with full powers, but with a sense of the institutions? You're the one who talks. Just quit for that! [[Applause]] It is a bit like now, when he makes the appeal, that he has confidence in Members, after a year and a half of Parliament has gone through it. All this hypocrisy is absolutely resounding, Mr President. Are we sure, then, that the problem was before Matthew Salvini and today Matthew Renzi? Did you not at least have the doubt, Mr President, that perhaps you are the problem for Italy? [[Applause]] In conclusion, I am thinking precisely of your words, when you speak of a policy that is in the right spirit. Mr President, honestly when I think of politics in the right spirit, I think of the ideals that have made it high throughout history, and not of a President-in-Office of the Council who today says he has ideals and principles, but if necessary he also has others tomorrow. I sincerely believe that this is very dangerous for democracy and for the whole of our country. I say this without any problem, just as I hope that Parliament will not miss this important window of political crisis and in the end really have a will for ransom, because - using a slogan so dear to the left - another government is possible, another President of the Council is possible. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u57	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President of the Council and members of the Government, we are in the midst of the most dramatic period since the post-war period. We count hundreds of victims day after day, although the vaccine begins to illuminate the way of hope. In the middle there are anti-Covid measures, the budget deviation, the refreshments for a country tried morally and economically. Someone, dragged by a hypertrophic ego, felt he had to trigger a crisis of Government at a time of so great suffering, in which all Italy expects strength and cohesion from all institutions. [[Applause]] ; the same strength and cohesion that the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte has interpreted and has been able to make interpret, with the constant stimulus of the Movimento 5 Stars, in other delicate moments of the life of the Country, for example on the occasion of the decree Genoa, a measure intervened on an entire infrastructural system and road insecure, because not subject to the due maintenances. The reconstruction of the bridge in Genoa has thus become an example for other actions to be carried out using commissioners, with appropriate rules and a well defined perimeter. [[Applause]] It is the same strength and cohesion that President Conte and this Government have demonstrated - among the many examples that can be made - in the last decree-simplifications law, with which we have put in place measures to overcome some mechanisms that are now enchanted, which strongly slow the implementation of public works in Italy. The new rules, which allow the acceleration of the procedures of trust and execution of services and works, will be fundamental in order to realize as soon as possible the projects financed in the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience, thus meeting also the needs of Senator Romeo. These are projects that, for infrastructure alone for sustainable mobility, are worth as much as EUR 32 billion. With the same measures we can really bridge the existing infrastructural gap between North and South, completing - for example - railway works like the director Naples-Bari; speeding up the Salerno-Reggio Calabria, the Salerno-Taranto, the Palermo-Catania-Messina or the Rome-Pescara, and we will be able to carry out upgrading and electrification of the regional railway lines. At the same time we will be able to guarantee the maintenance of our roads and related works of art, as well as the intermodalità and the logistics with the objective to enhance the competitiveness of the Italian harbour system. [[Applause]] They are all goals reachable in a few years, that need an immediate departure in order not to waste the potential of the recovery fund, obtained in Europe thanks to the credibility of this Government, thanks to Giuseppe Conte and the constant contribution of the Movimento 5 Stars [[Applause]] And it is not conceivable to invent crises without any foundation, dictated only by a political cynicism completely incompatible with the interests of the country. In the same way it is inconceivable to try to justify the crisis under the pretext of non-existent content: I refer to yet another reference to the ESM made by Italia Viva. The ESM is an instrument that has nothing to do with the recovery plan; it does not arouse the interest of any country in the Eurozone and, in the conditions in which our country today finances itself on the markets, it does not even serve to save us on interest rates. [[Applause]] ; an instrument which is no longer in favour of any force in this House and therefore no majority would accept the ESM. It does not even serve to find the funds for health, since with the recovery plan, also thanks to the contribution of Italia Viva, the resources for health have risen to 20 billion euros. [[Applause]] The MES is a pretext: it was clear months ago and it is even clearer today. The Movimento 5 Stars knows that this operation is able to cause loss in the citizens. For this reason, our awareness of having to square around President Count to continue to develop the many projects put in place for the country. [[Applause]] In this regard, I cannot fail to recall one of the flywheels conceived by this Government and strongly wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars: I am talking about the 110% superbonus. After a first phase of departure in order, both for the skepticism of the operators, and for the need of a complete and detailed information of the public opinion, finally you see the first real and concrete results: thousands of yards throughout Italy, from North to South; several hundred million euros recognized in fiscal compensation to the whole year 2020; thousands of enterprises are being born; even more is the number of the existing enterprises that are being organized in order to meet the demands of energetic efficiency and adaptation anti-seismic throughout the territory. In this regard, it is news of these days (source Unioncamere) that, in 2020, the balance between the companies ceased and constituted is positive; despite the crisis there are about 19,000 more enterprises, demonstrating the effectiveness of the measures of the Government in support of the resilience of our productive fabric. [[Applause]] The measure of the superbonus becomes a flag for this Government, which is also inspiring other European countries, and we want to extend it as long as possible. This is why it is and will remain one of the cornerstones of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR). The €222 billion recovery plan is a fundamental result obtained by the Government in Europe. It is useless to turn around: it is also the desire for control and management of these resources that hides behind the irresponsible attempt to delegitimize a Government that has instead demonstrated and is demonstrating that it is always up to the situation. [[Applause]] It is incredible to expose the country at this moment to the risk of not being able to climb up the slope. I renew my trust in President Conte, because he has already largely demonstrated that he has the profile that the country needs to emerge from this historical crisis. This is no time to quit. President Conte won't quit. We don't quit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u59	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I address you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, although I do not hide from you that I do not know who I am talking to. I don't know if I'm talking to the proud sovereign or the proud anti-Sovereignist today. Am I speaking today to the friend of the United States or the friend of China? I am talking to the person who approved the security decrees to dismantle illegal immigration, or perhaps, Mr President, I am talking to those security decrees that have put them out of business, in arms with those who do business with illegal immigration? I do not know, today, if I am talking to the one who announced powerful economic interventions in favour of companies or if I am talking to the one who, despite the pandemic, is filling the Italians with debitory records. [[Applause]] You see, Mr President-in-Office, you are one, no one and a hundred thousand to me, like the majority, like your majorities, that you change as easily as you changed your famous clutch this morning. [[Applause]] , to stay glued to that chair, where it still sits today. You, Mr President, do not have values, but you only have conveniences. You do not care about the interest of Italians: your interest is not to abandon - as you say at my home - the fall. [[Applause]] If this is sad in general, it becomes lethal today, for our nation, in the midst of a pandemic. Today it will come out of Palazzo Madama not with the absolute majority - I am sure - but perhaps with a majority that will be a transformist cobblestone and - as I have already said this morning - with a government "Count whatever," so all is well and all good for all seasons. Believe me, Mr President-in-Office, not even your trusty Rocco Casalino will be able to sell this majority worthy of that name. We know that its governments were born on Palace agreements, between parties that had presented themselves in the electoral campaign as opponents, with opposing political programs. Today there is another element: all the observations make it clear that it no longer reflects the majority of Italians, who - thank God - are firmly in the hands of the center-right. Today it does not even have the support of a real, politically decent and - I would add - presentable parliamentary majority. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would just like you to answer one question: I would like you to understand what concept you have of democracy. What is democracy to you? Is it that of China, which your government warmly thanked, after they sold us the masks, that your Government had given in the first phase of the pandemic? Perhaps you should listen to another element, which we think is appalling. Your government will have to respond not only economically, but also morally. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are a lawyer and you are polite. It's bad to see you texting with your phone, speaking to a representative of the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause and comments.]] I understand that education no longer lives in this palace. You see, President, that chilling figure is number 7: 7%, what companies have gotten from fantasy... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Shame, President, that 7% to companies that - you know - have lost 423 billion turnover for closures, and you have given them 29 billion: shame! You're a builder. I don't know if you'll be remembered by history, but I do have one certainty: you'll be remembered to be destroyers, the destroyers of this country system, that extraordinary skeleton of small and medium-sized enterprises that you're killing. This is the theme. [[Applause.]] I understand that, in order to pick up the vote of some "softer" - of course, he is in actual permanent service - you have declared something shameful at this time: your government will take action for a proportional electoral law. I would remind you, Mr President, that Parliament should do so. Then, perhaps for you, Parliament is an appendix to your Facebook page. President Conte, do you commit your government today with an electoral law with a 2020 behind which 300,000 companies have been shut down, which has lost thousands of jobs, despite the blockade of redundancies? I would have liked to hear today that you were telling us about the compensation, worthy of this word, that you were telling us about the vaccines. No, you're talking about electoral law. President Conte, you are putting the Palace against the royal country, and you will have to account for this to the Italians. He told us we had to take the locks, the locks, the... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . ..of the health emergency. Nice result your recipe: closing the country didn't do much good. We are the last in the economic pandemic, with a GDP less than 10%, and in the health pandemic with the highest mortality rate in Europe. I shall conclude, Mr President. Today, in this House, he said that we must renew the pact of trust between citizens and institutions, which must be mutual, must develop in a biunivocal relationship. Mr President, you are right, I agree with you: this pact is called a vote. Get out of Palazzo Madama, go to Quirinale and resign and take Italy to the vote. Find a whisper of dignity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, in the face of the crisis, the component I represent has proposed a Government of National Salvation. This is actually the exceptional situation in which we find ourselves: we will soon overcome the 100,000 deaths; we will exceed 160% in the debt-to-GDP ratio; we have some categories (self-employed, professionals, operators in the neighbourhood economy) that are literally on their knees; we have a vaccination programme of difficulties and unforeseen events; we have a time to recover so that our recovery plan is credible in Europe. National unity, then: if not now, when? A country that denies this possibility even in the emergency is a weaker country. And we, Mr President, have too many weaknesses. Some of the difficulties I have highlighted are objective and common to other countries. One part, in our analysis, derives instead from choices of the Government that we have not shared: from the institutional to the economic to the choices in the face of the emergency of the pandemic. That is why, as you know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have never voted for your trust until now. For this reason too, the opposition felt - and we believe - that several of the arguments put forward by our colleagues in Italy Viva, starting with those on the non-use of the ESM, on the merits are acceptable. While we have not shared and have not understood the ways and, above all, the times in which the crisis has been proposed by them. Democracy is not always the same. Democracy can take account of circumstances. Ignoring it risks demeaning, in the eyes of the public, also many right reasons. The question we asked ourselves, however, is this: can a crisis in times and ways, which has been generated and developed all within the old majority, bring who has so far opposed its government to changing its judgment on it? President Conte, yesterday you appealed to the democratic, liberal, pro-European and anti-Sovereign forces, and you reiterated that today. It was a general appeal, too general. It reminded me of the use that was made in the seventies of the category of anti-fascism, so abused that it lost any real meaning. At the time, against that risk, we were warned by a great intellectual, communist and conservative, Pier Paolo Pasolini. Mr President, let us not renew that mistake. My component is democratic, liberal, a-sovereignist and pro-European because it refers to the Europe of the founding fathers. Not for this, however, does he think he has to abandon the opposition. You, on the other hand, proposing a Government that does not change even its cardinal number (we are always talking about Count 2), has legitimately claimed the work done so far, the one to which we have legitimately opposed so far. And, of course, it started with the current majority: Movimento 5 Stars, Democratic Party, Leu. He asked the others, quoting his speech, to enrich this base: in short, to "add." No transformation, therefore, of the formula or of the programmatic context in which it should fall. If I don't mention it, still vague, to the proportionalization of the system. In short, what you have advanced to the anti-Sovereign oppositions (and I repeat that we at Idea and Cambiamo rather consider ourselves a-sovereignists, because even on this category we should understand each other) in technical terms was not even a transformist proposal, as has been said. As you know, Mr President, and as you teach me, in the definition that Agostino Depretis gave of it, transformism involved, precisely, a transformation: both for those who adhere to the Government, and for the Government itself who changed its centre of gravity, moving, depending on the case, more to the right or more to the left; more to the monarchy or more to Parliament. In technical terms, Mr President-in-Office, you asked for an annexation. For this reason, the answer to the question is whether it is enough to note the absurdity of a crisis to change judgment on a government, in this case it is no. If anything, what has happened strengthens the judgment of insufficiency on the government in which that crisis has been generated and has been fueled and in respect of which one... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .requires continuity today, albeit with some enrichment. It strengthens the belief that the country would need something else and something more ambitious. President Conte, Italy, in fact, needs profound changes. We are convinced that the political system and the same policy, when we finally turn this terrible page of our national history, will no longer be the same. Putting ourselves in the game to respond to this need does not scare us and will never lead us to back out. Let us annex no. For a matter of substance, but also of style. And God knows how much today there is also need of those who, in politics, can preserve the style. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u63	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u64	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that I have experienced this crisis with political and personal suffering. I was uncomfortable with the fact that while the world and our country were experiencing such an unexpected, terrible and unheard-of difficulty, politics, which has responsibility and must reassure and calm, became another element of further concern and insecurity for our fellow citizens. The images of the suffering of those who have lost their loved ones or of those who have been sick in the hospital have passed by and are anxiously waiting to know how they are. I also thought about the restaurateurs. I don't know if it happens to you too, but when we get out of here, at lunchtime, I see the restaurateurs nearby who prepare tables and dress up completely, waiting for those tourists who unfortunately cannot arrive today. I've been thinking about the boys and the girls. All of us parents spent years saying not to be in front of the videos and to stop with the computer, the video games and the phone. Now, not for video games, but because distance learning requires it, they are spending a lot of time in front of the computer, thus experiencing a fundamental moment of their private training of important and significant aspects. I have passed before me the sufferings of the Italians, but also the strength and dignity that the citizens have shown us, all with the awareness that Italy is experiencing a drama never lived and a viral war, to overcome which we need cohesion. Why, at such a dramatic time, is there a crisis that forces politics to focus on itself, instead of using all the energy to support the country and take it out of the drama that it is experiencing? [[Brusio]] I ask colleagues not to listen to me, but at least a little kindness and courtesy, allowing me to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, there is too much buzz and I also see an assembly that is not possible in this House. Colleagues, I ask the courtesy of clearing the emicycle.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u66	Please, Senator Pinotti. Mr Pinotti (PD). Thank you, Mr President. In our country there is confusion and misunderstanding about this crisis and I have to tell you with sincerity that it is a bewilderment that I have experienced too. What was the use of this dramatization? To say that it takes a change of pace? But we first, from November, say that we need a change of pace because with the pandemic everything has changed and we need a revival of the government to be up to it. Or to improve the recovery plan? But all the parties worked on the first document, bringing proposals (we did so, we did the Movimento 5 Stars and we did it Italy Viva) and, according to everyone, the document improved thanks to the contribution of everyone and will still be able to improve in Parliament. So, why a crisis? To get the legislature pact? We have been strongly supporting this for months: we need a clear perimeter, a political perspective and a cohesive and strong pact to support a government action that must be strong and up to the gravity and the situation so difficult that our country is living. Therefore, as a Democratic Party we do not understand the reasons for this crisis and we will vote for confidence with conviction. You have to work to build and not to destroy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we will vote for confidence because with this Government Italy has finally taken up that part of its history which is fundamental in its identity. Italy is one of the founding countries of Europe. [[Applause]] Being protagonists in Europe is fundamental and it is true that Italy's protagonism has also helped Europe to improve, not only to be attentive to stability and to the accounts but to understand that today is the time to invest in social, work, the green new deal, the new generations. Do we really think that we would get so many resources and so much credit with an anti-European sovereignist government? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Government has then faced an unprecedented difficulty, which no executive in Italy had ever faced. She did so by making mistakes, as she recognized (and did well to say so in her speech), but really giving all the effort possible to do her best. We recognize this to you and to the whole government. Let's finish with the story of a failed government on the pandemic. Is it true that the number of deaths in Italy is high, but can anyone blame it on the conduct of the pandemic by the Executive? There are weaknesses in health care that refer to previous periods and there has been a spread of the virus that hardly any government measures could imagine or stop. I therefore believe that in the pandemic emergency the government, apart from the mistakes that each of us could have made, behaved with dignity and honor. Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with this confidence that we renew them, we also ask you to move forward and do so for a new and strong start, defining the political perimeter of a renewed majority, which must be strong and cohesive, with that parliamentary pact which you mentioned in your speech. You said that during the current legislature many things could be done and I would subscribe to them all, but I would like to emphasise in particular the issue of institutional reforms, because it is nothing else than to make the State work well; to talk about the rules of the game, how the State works, what the relationship between the State and the Regions is fundamental so that all other reforms, cascaded, can work, so it is a very important part. I am beginning to conclude by recalling that, if Europeanism is the identity framework of this majority and this Government, we now need to include in that valuable reference those social rights, those labour rights, those interventions on the economy that are fundamental for restarting. The first measures announced by Biden really show a change of pace compared to what Trump did; in particular, I refer to that multilateralism that has always been a distinctive sign of Italian politics, in which we deeply believe. Today it is important to be in the wake of this progressiveism that does not only believe in selfishness but thinks that dialogue and relationship have an improvement in the world. Finally, I make a request to all of us, but in particular to the Government. We need things that we say to be operational and timely about people's lives. This is crucial. I understand that a thousand may be the difficulties, but I think it must be a daily outcry of those who are in government today. I conclude with important words from a Bible book, the "Qohelet," which, however, seem very appropriate at this stage: There is a time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant and a time to eradicate what has been planted, a time to demolish and a time to build. As the President of the Republic said, this must be the time of the builders and the PD will continue to play its part. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u68	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I listened to you this morning and partly yesterday; I did not see much improvement from yesterday to today; your speech seemed to me to be a short-term speech, although in your intentions you have tried, at least from a lexical point of view, to imagine a majority which would have become unnerved by socialist, reformist and Europeanist forces. I found his speech an enunciation, certainly legitimate from his point of view, of things that his Government believes it has done, but without that gravitas that should be inherent in an extraordinarily difficult moment like the present one. In fact, I have the impression that you have spoken about what remains of a majority which is currently based on the abstention of a party that has allowed you to be President of the Council, that is, of the party of Italy Viva di Renzi. It seems to me that his speech has been addressed to the recruits rather than to address what would be necessary at this time, namely a Government of breath and sharing the great, extraordinary and dramatic problems that Italy has and its location. [[Applause]] We have before us the prospect of the arrival of more than 200 billion from the recovery plan and, compared to this, the most obvious thing is that there are no structural reforms. The risk is that these money can become a deadly trap for Italy, and I don't say that because we don't want it. If you can boast today the result of bringing this money home, in fact, you owe it to the presence within this Parliament, of a force like Forza Italia that belongs to the European People's Party and that has in Silvio Berlusconi and Antonio Tajani a piece of history of Europe that has shared and built silently even in our parliamentary passages. [[Applause]] When we voted on the budgetary deviation, we gave you confidence, except then to see it crumble into measures that we have not always understood and understood. [[Applause]] Mr President, from the point of view of reforms - I am sorry that there is no Minister for Justice - it is clear that we are not there. Even from the point of view of justice, about which you did not speak yesterday or today, we are in a situation of plasterboard, as someone has called it. [[Applause]] These are the words of the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court Flick and not mine. You should worry. President, you are an attorney and a professor of law. It should be concerned in this situation, because it is clear that the approach of this majority is the search for a criminal trial based on the scapegoat, of Trojan horses, understood as trojan horse, those collectors with whom you have done the reform that transform mobile phones into instruments that intervene in the homes of the Italians, through the cameras, to see what happens in our lives. [[Applause]] Well, a great strategist had argued that the most difficult war operation was retreat. Today we are in Counte-bis, which was born on the basis of an opening that Renzi did in an interview with the "Corriere della Sera" in which he said that a Government was born against the anti-European vision. Well, right after the birth of the Count-Ai government, there was the problem of the prescription and a motion of distrust towards Bonafede. In that case there was the abstention of Italia Viva. I don't know if we're even facing a Barletta challenge or a prank fight today. You have to tell us what you're doing. [[Applause]] Dear President, I believe that in difficult times one must know how to change the paradigm of what is believed to be heroic. And it is heroic, sometimes, even to take a step back, to know how to give a new dimension to politics, since she presents herself as an expression of the new, the pure, the immaculate. I can also believe it, because you certainly do not come from a political experience consumed. Well, take a different step, mark a real turning point in this country. You will certainly get a majority today, but it will be a relative majority and will not be able to govern for long under these conditions. The trigger is always there; any good-timer or moron knows how to put a bomb... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] ..to disarm it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u69	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can really take note of the fact that we are perhaps among the least upbuilding pages in the political history of our country; we are sorry for Italy and we are sorry for the Italians. Last year we experienced one of the most terrible periods of recent years and unfortunately this beginning of 2021 does not seem so different from the previous one. And to think that in this period Italians have demonstrated a great strength. We saw it in the first phase of the contagion: a lot of patience, respect and capacity for sacrifice. Our fellow citizens have stopped, patiently waiting for a return to normal soon. In the second wave of contagion, what appeared to be a doubt in the first wave became a dramatic certainty, namely that there was no strategy to deal with the crisis. Nor was the opportunity to soften the contagion in the summer to build a strategy was collected. Let us remember the letters of the Presidents of the Region, who emphasized, already in May, how there was a problem with public transport and school. We arrived in September with a continuous rain of DPCM and conflicts with the Regions and with a series of decree-laws superimposed on each other. These decrees were then inaugurated, called "restors" almost in a consolatory way, but in the eyes of the Italians absolutely derisory. What, in fact, can be the refreshments for activities that are not only denied the possibility of working, but that will not even be able to reopen? What challenges for a real economy that is launched today without support for an uncertain future and without prospects? The uncertain future without prospects, ladies and gentlemen, is due to the fact that this policy of government is uncertain and without prospects. [[Applause]] We take note of the fact that there is no vision of the country. Companies and citizens do not only ask to be supported by livelihood mechanisms, they ask to be able to see beyond, to design, to predict, to build and also to believe. What are the objectives of this Government, which will probably be confirmed today, if not to survive itself? [[Applause]] What are the qualifying actions? We must resign ourselves to the fact that perhaps the only real action fully shared by the Government was to put Salvini to trial; that was the only reason that kept you standing. [[Applause]] And the long-awaited reforms have only become propaganda leaflets without content. True reforms, institutional and constitutional ones, have perhaps only been announced. But seeing the working method, also that of these days, and the weakness of politics (we must note that there is a weakness of politics), perhaps it is better than not even the facades. What happened in the end? Perhaps the cut of Members has only been made effective, which unfortunately today becomes a strong motivation, for many of my colleagues, to stay here. But the weakness and inadequacy of the policy will also have devastating effects, because in the conditions in which it is found it will have to deal with sensitive, important and impacting issues, such as the issue of recovery fund. Let us reason, it is money that seems impressive, but to achieve these objectives we need planning, balance and efficiency. And remember that these funds are not a government resource, they are not funds for election campaigns, but they are also a burden and a burden that our country will face in the future. Politics is not a bar sport discourse: we need ability, vision and vision; colleagues, we do not govern by improvising. This year of enormous difficulty has brought to light a great truth: who is great has turned out to be great and who is small has turned out to be small. [[Applause]] Today it is clear to our fellow citizens that there are still no conditions to deal with the health crisis, the economic crisis and the social crisis. The citizens want in politics today skills, projects and strategies, and the show that has been held these days on the stage of Palazzo Chigi is perhaps not worthy of the Italians. There's a government crisis. Don't think you're gonna put it through. It exists because there is no political majority, the true majority. While it is true that votes are individual, government action must be based on projects, which cannot be made through pacts with individuals. The methods used today have seen the most reproached and derided practices that some time ago the most revolutionary colleagues had pointed out as the great evil of politics. I regret to say this, but in the eyes of the citizens there is no clarity in these maneuvers and methods. It has always been said that we need not only respect for the law, but also the appearance of respect for the law, and today, unfortunately, in the eyes of the citizens, the appearance is confused. But what state will we have, what nation will we have if we use these methods? What is the dignity of the State and the dignity of politics? Today we are perhaps going through one of the biggest crises in the system of institutions. Our country has stood up to terrorism, to the years of lead, has held and fought the Mafia, and it is the values - the true ones - of the nation that have won. Today we have a constitutional and institutional crisis that is not just a government crisis: it is the whole system that has seen cracks in the walls that the first earthquake has caused to falter. We have confused citizens, unheard of representatives, politics in search of itself. This crisis in the Republic can only be overcome by the dignity, strength of ideas and coherence of projects. And, gentlemen, I'm sorry, we're not here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u71	Senator Perilli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u72	Mr President, Senator Romeo della Lega concluded his speech by asking, in a somewhat reckless way, whether the real problem of our country and this House at this time is the two Matthew. I'd say so. It wasn't a genius intuition. [[Applause]] But you'll get through this, too, and I'd like to tell you, President Conte, a simple story. I do not believe that I am the only one in this House, and I would also say outside of it, to think that this crisis, which is surely sudden and which weighs disproportionately on a country that is already on its knees because of the pandemic, has been provoked in a reckless way - I would replace a few words - rather than irresponsible, in an unscrupulous manner. The embarrassment we feel is also for humiliation before not only the country but also the whole world. [[Applause]] But I don't think it makes sense and above all I don't think it's inexplicable. It is not senseless for those who, President Conte, programmed, implemented and conducted it in detail after the birth of his second Government; he did so with a determination, political cynicism and an execution that was exactly parallel to his work, the work of his Government, the majority and all those who were and are committed to defeating the economic crisis that we are going through. It was almost a slow-release poisoning in the body of this government, in its political figure, to debilitate its project and arrive at a very precise end. Among other things, there is a watchword; I do not say "Count" had to die, but Conte had to be absolutely eliminated from the government, from the presidency of this Council of Ministers and from the role of Premier. [[Applause]] This is the watchword that has circulated, I am not in this House, President, but also outside, in the areas of interest that have to be lost from its policy, and - let's face it - in conjunction with the implementation of the recovery plan, which involves the management of EUR 209 billion. [[Applause]] This is the explanation that must be given to the country. The country knows very well, and must know, that some fundamental appointments on the boards of directors of important public associations are imminent; it is well known that having an interdictive power on the expenditure chapters of the recovery plan means power (not the verb, the noun, just to refer to someone who said there was a difference). That is what happened, Mr President. So you did well to refer, in your speech, to a climate, what gave rise to this second government, which consisted of a - as you called it - drive of ideals, an investment of trust. But perhaps we made a mistake, even in the majority, not to look into our eyes immediately after signing the papers, because this same intent was not present in everyone. The very implementation of the plan, of course, has also benefited from self-centeredness, narcissism, talent in this of its individual leader. I hope, however, that, over the course of these months, those who have joined this project have understood the insecurity of those who were leading them. A bit like the one who drives in the seas saying to spot the earth and then there is always only a stretch of water. So it is: they are boarded with the one who will lead them, without knowing where they are going. However, Mr President, it is no less serious. You have done well to say that what has happened cannot be deleted and neither do we. The country has perfectly understood what was the underlying interest, because the Trojan horse of this attitude have been visible tools to all, i.e. provocations and proposals unrealizable. You saw: we were talking about the recovery plan and they mentioned the MES or the bridge over the Strait of Messina, all put on the table in an incongruent way. Here, too, there is a project, even in this there is a provocation. How do you respond to provocations? Mr President, if anyone wants to kill her, we defend her, we resist, we move on. [[Applause]] Precisely because they're obstructing it, we're moving on. You're right to make a call to responsibility. I come, in this regard, also to our attitude. I have heard innuendos and this is not the time for lectures and sermons, especially on the part of those who cannot afford them. [[Applause]] The Movimento 5 Stars hasn't changed at all its programs and its attitude since 2018, when it presented itself with a clear program; the same program, expanded, of the 29 points of the second Conte Government and the same program, expanded, that President Conte has relaunched as a pact. We do not change programs for people; we stay on those and with those who are taking a road and a path. [[Applause]] They are others, like the League, who have come together with the center-right and then ruled with us, until they break with us. Then there was the Democratic Party and Italy Viva was born from a rib of PD. It's not us. This clarity, Mr President, this reference to the political function, which explains a programme and who is doing it in the light of the sun, with these ideas and with these objectives, is the best way to achieve the objective, beyond the insinuations and insults. Frankly, in fact, how can one argue that it was a responsible break (an expression that is also an oxymoron), motivated essentially by the fact that Conte would be a vulnus to democracy, why has it made a reality show all the government communication? How can we forget - I say to the Group led by Senator Pharaoh - the fact that we would have made policies even to handle or that the income of citizenship is useless, that we have wasted time and that our investments are wrong? You see, I don't find the newspaper reference to leader Renzi as a gambler, who invests all his fortunes well knowing at the end of losing everything; we can't let gambling be done [[Applause]] on the destiny and future of our country because public health and our destiny are not, and will never be, a gamble. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u74	Mr President, the government crisis in full pandemic allows us to make a brief assessment of what has happened in our country in recent months. While it is true that Italy has been one of the most affected countries in Europe by this coronavirus pandemic, I feel like saying that the mountain is the most affected area from a health point of view and also from an economic point of view. In particular, my region, Valle d'Aosta, has suffered and is suffering heavy consequences, being our economy linked to winter tourism. A tourism that totally depends on travel from other regions or other states and the small number of residents could never guarantee a minimum support, as it happens for all the other territories of our country. This fact has prompted our regional council and the president of the Region to legislate according to the competences that allows us our special statute of autonomy, indispensable, as had already clearly our constituent Fathers, to adapt and modify also national and European norms to a particular and unique territory compared to the rest of the country. However, I regret to say, Mr President, that your Government has not recently understood all of this, at a very delicate time, showing little sensitivity to my region and a lack of knowledge of the Alpine reality in the Val d'Aosta region. The appeal of the Regione Valle d'Aosta on the emergency Covid surprised me above all in its speed. This appeal becomes even more difficult to understand when in another Alpine territory, the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, there is in force a law practically identical that - I am absolutely pleased - the Government had not considered to challenge, creating an obvious and unbearable - for us Valdostans - injustice and diversity of treatment. This is difficult to justify. I also see a paradox; the law, considered by the consulta dangerous for health, since it was in force, has seen an improvement in the health situation in the territory. In addition, the Valle d'Aosta is among the top places at the level of the vaccination campaign. More generally, Mr President, on the occasion of my confidence in Conte- bis, I had put to you some important issues - from hydropower, transport, tunnels - and priorities for the Valle d'Aosta and unfortunately there has never been a way of dealing with them either. My position in this prestigious Chamber will always be inspired by the principles of the Movement to which I belong, the Union Valdôtaine, an autonomy born from the struggle of the Resistance to Nazi Fascism, from the most convinced Europeanism and above all from an integral federalism contrary to any regurgitation of neo-nationalism and also to changes of our Constitution and its Title V in the centralist sense. I therefore hope that the work of the Government will in future be characterised by a different and more convinced attention to the mountains, the regions with special status and, in particular, the Valle D'Aosta. There are very specific issues which I have already put forward and which I hope will be taken seriously. After a year, I have to confess that my trust has cracked. My confirmation to the confidence, in fact, will be conditioned by the will of your Government to accept our requests in a new and authentic spirit of collaboration and mutual respect. We Valdostans are a numerically very small people, but over the centuries it has always brought the torch of our freedom and our identity high and we will never be able to give up on this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u75	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u76	Dear President, Dear Senators and Senators, Government, today we are called to express trust to the entire government, including Premier, with evaluations that are free from personalisms. So I begin by pointing out that there has been no special attention to the school, in its speech. Yesterday and today we witnessed a mere enucleation of "I have done" and "I will do" without any evidence of temporal development, without questioning anything. But what has been the work of this Government? What order of priority? If the school had been considered really in the first places, today it would not have been in these conditions: disoriented, without certainties and with it thousands of students, families, teachers and ATA staff. Mr President, without any personal reference, I would like to list the order of speakers. After the swabs, before returning to school for teachers, pupils and ATA personnel and/or administration of the vaccine: activation of conventions with private means of transport and even equal structures; return of the teachers immobilized, today further penalized in having to manage the DAD not from home, but from school, without being able to return to their territories; elimination of the five-year constraint; extension of the decrees signed by the Minister of Education, which allowed the return of teachers out of headquarters in the earthquake areas of Central Italy: and for the other territories? Sicily excluded. In addition, it would be necessary to put teachers already winners in the role of competition; the stabilization of the precarious, with course-competition, as we are in pandemic, in an emergency situation. President, what about the family? I did not feel, in his words, any mention of the serious demographic problem affecting Italy. In the recovery plan do you intend to give space to that project expressed by means of a motion lodged in this branch of Parliament and signed only by colleagues sitting in my ranks? There is so much talk about the protection of the environment, of creation, an objective that is obviously acceptable, but what is creation without creatures? If the family is not helped, if no more children are born, who will pay the debts that we will contract with the recovery plan? Let us begin by allocating at least 0.9% of the national annual GDP to family policies, extending parental leave from zero to three years of the child's age, reviewing the ISEE calculation system, predicting a capitarian share per pupil, letting the family free to choose the registration of their child in the school which it considers to correspond to the educational project that parents consider desirable for their children. We defend fathers and mothers, such biologically and psychologically, keeping the atavistic statement of "mom" and "dad" instead of "parent 1" and "parent 2" [[Applause]] Nature is so perfect and harmonious that the evolution of the language for a newborn child passes through the so-called phase of the langation, when it naturally repeats "mam-ma, pa-pà." I'm sorry it's too little. I conclude by mentioning my beloved land, Sicily, highlighting how it still expects the full implementation of the Sicilian Regional Statute. Sicily incurs only expenses, against snatched revenues for Irpef and VAT on credit differently distributed. Let's complete the iter on mountain free zones. We need to invest in internal infrastructure, including the infamous Bridge on the Strait. Gentlemen, we build bridges and tear down walls: these are not my words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u77	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u78	Mr President, Government, colleagues, Mr Conte, for a month, Italy was held hostage to your quarrels until last week's rift by a force of its majority. You should have resigned immediately - and I repeat immediately - but you have, you have taken time, you have given yourself a sort of exploratory mandate to find here and there the numbers that shore it, appealing to a majority as long as it is, even if not political, but only just mathematics (always you will have it). There are those who have spoken of transformism, but I in his case would not bother a piece of parliamentary history; I would rather speak of therapeutic aggression and a prevailing need to keep himself and his government standing. This prevailing interest is also demonstrated by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 14 January (and I will explain why) which represents the coup de grace for entire categories. You did not feel the compulsive need, to which you had accustomed us, of one of your direct invasive to explain (while you should have) whether 2021 will be the year of the return of personal freedoms and normality and not even to explain that extension of the state of emergency until April 30. He did not, because he was too busy doing the Palazzo count; instead he should have told the Italians how and when she and her Government intend to move from restrictions and prohibitionism to prudent behavior yes, but aimed at the needs of living and working together with the virus. Moreover, even here it has not indicated a future, a way of balancing the right to health and the right to personal freedoms violated. You're at your second government crisis. He is not a technician, he is not born as a politician, he is not elected by the people; he has passed from anonymity to Palazzo Chigi suddenly and is confirmed as a Zelig of politics, that is something able to adapt to any season and to any majority gathered and reduced as long as it is and I repeat it. You called this crisis incomprehensible. What seems really incomprehensible is not to admit on your part the total failure of the Commission in the management of the pandemic and the serious responsibilities for the current economic crisis, which is likely to turn into an unprecedented social shock. You have boasted successes; you have told, President, an Italy that is not there, that it is not blood and it is not flesh. Then I will tell him some of his great successes: we are the country that has the most percentage deaths, that has the worst fall of GDP (less 10 percent) and that has given less refreshment (not 75 percent asked by Brothers of Italy). We are the ones who have used the longest distance teaching of all and we have not allowed everyone to return to school safely. You have closed gyms, bars, restaurants, but you have continued to gather people on means of transport like sardines. And, between an omission of the CTS minutes and some health scandal, over which I fly, you tried to make the first of the class in the vaccination campaign, but now suffers a dangerous setback that puts at risk the administration of the second dose calls. You have not yet made the implementing decrees of the budget law; you have squandered nearly 150 billion in ten months for bonuses and tips without appreciable results and meanwhile businesses die, VAT matches close and you boast successes. Mr President, I would not even speak of success in the European field, because for your draft recovery plan, late and without ideas, even Commissioner Gentiloni and Senator Monti, who will also vote for trust, have drawn her ears. Brussels rejected its draft and the authoritative German newspaper "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" wrote that Conte spends on political calculations and clientele. They do not convince generic microprograms, which use resources without making investments, and even the recovery fund is not a magic wand, because however there is a loan to report and return by 2056, which, if misspent, means a thirty-five-year-long MES. As far as Europe is concerned, I would like to inform you that there is also a vast European right-wing centre and that it is Europeanist who defends the rights of peoples and national interests, not those who defend Brussels' interests. [[Applause]] That is the difference with true Europeanists. I ask you one question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to ask whether you do not feel the intimate and personal need, as well as the need for institutional political dignity, to submit to the Italians... [[The microphone is switched off automatically)...]] your work and your government. She doesn't feel it, but she feels it that Italy, who said it has to run (and we all want this). I do not see in you, Mr Conte, either the spirit or the pace of our glorious targets, but I see in you the swamp of politics. If today you disassemble it - and I stress the verb disaggare, because this is what it is - at most you will be able to float, while Italy continues to sink. Italy deserves, today more than ever, a strong and patriotic government, a solid coalition, able to bring the nation out of the crisis and rebuild it piece by piece, with anger, love and pride. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u79	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u80	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, we are here today not to destroy, but to build. The building we want to build must not rest its foundations on the sand, but on the rock. Dialectical confrontation is a sign of vitality and wealth, but it is healthy if it is done with a proactive spirit, aimed at improving government action and certainly not to demolish it and distract it from those objectives, which today are absolutely indispensable for a real recovery of our country. For a year, Italy, like Europe and the whole world, has been overwhelmed by a health tsunami, which has put a strain on the economic and social hold of our civil life. Families, businesses, workers, young people and the elderly ask questions, to which it is often difficult to answer. Entire categories of workers are brought to their knees and are eagerly waiting to know what will happen to them. The first to respond to the call to arms were doctors, nurses, health workers, technicians and volunteers, who put their lives at the service of the country and enlightened our hopes. They did this to save our nation, in compliance with the measures imposed by the government, that they found themselves facing what no one would ever have expected and did it best, albeit with some imperfection, obtaining encouraging results compared to the spread of the pandemic and receiving also the applause of Europe. All the other measures taken to overcome the consequent economic crisis, from the decrees relaunched, to the decree ristori, to the budget law for 2021, have certainly given relief, but compared to the serious losses that the economic sector has suffered, I think it was necessary to do more, for example taking as criterion not only the codes Ateco, but also the loss of turnover of the companies. The challenge facing us today is that of recovery plan: we have the opportunity to give Italy the tool not only to cushion losses, but to really get back on the road of recovery and sustainable development. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan, approved by the Government and significantly improved in the latest version, outlines the objectives, reforms and investments that Italy wants to achieve with the European funds of the Next generation EU. There have certainly been delays in its drafting, but these shortcomings cannot justify a crisis of government, at a time like this. In the heart of our democracy we must decide how we want to deal with these epochal issues: we can decide to scrap, to destroy, to blow up the bench and return to the starting point; or we can choose to build and start here, we can choose to use this House as a privileged place of confrontation. In recent years, I have sometimes expressed critical opinions about government action, but I have always interpreted my mandate as a service to the Republic and to all its citizens. This spirit of service requires me today to work on construction and not destruction. I ask the Presidency to hand over the rest of my speech so that it remains in the papers and I announce that I will vote for the government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u81	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u82	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days I have insisted very much with my parliamentary group on having this brief space, just two minutes, because I believe it is right that the President of the Council, this House and the whole country should also be represented in the perspective of that part of the 5 Star Movement which today will vote for confidence only because it is fully aware of the greatest damage that our fellow citizens would suffer if this Government were to fall. We will vote, yes, we will vote, but with great concern, both because of the heterogeneity of the forces to which you, Mr President, call for support and because we have read in some passages of your speech - although to a large extent acceptable - hints that we feel too much trust in the European Union. With this vote in favour, Mr President, we want to encourage you to take account of the fact that the country's interest lies not only in the reputation you have managed to win from our European partners, but also in the determination with which you will be able to indicate in Europe the right direction to take, knowing also that no, if necessary. The overcoming of the European Stability Pact, the continuation in structural form of the ECB's government securities purchase programmes and the waiver of loans with excessively penalising conditions are some of the issues that its Government will have to set as objectives of all the forces that will support it. Long live Italy and live Europe, if in Europe the interests of the citizens will come before those of finance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u84	Senator Bini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u85	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I have long considered the words to be used to speak about the complex phase we are going through. I thought of the year that we have behind us, 2020, with the Covid, the drama of the many sick, of the many deaths, of our extraordinary health care in distress, of the citizens closed at home, of the workers and entrepreneurs in economic difficulty, of the children who have given up school and sociality. I thought about the end of this year and what has recently opened up, with too many patients, with too many deaths, but with two new elements of hope: the first, the vaccine and the extraordinary vaccination campaign, which we have the duty to organize and monitor at best and which will give us greater health security for us and for our loved ones, especially the most fragile ones. A great state investment in our health. The second, the resources of the recovery plan, the financing projects, the possibility of investing as many funds as never before in strategic matters for our present and future well-being. In this picture, in this flow of images, from February 2020 to today (less than a year, but very long for wealth and quantity of events), the crisis of government is inserted: unexpected, wrong in ways and times. The reasons why I think it is wrong are obvious, without much explanation, in my retracing the facts of the last year. In a context like what we're going through and we've been through, can we afford a government crisis? Is the opening of a crisis really the best answer to the inevitable difficulties that we are facing, even to the limits that we can experience in government action? My answer is no, absolutely not. Not because the pandemic involves a kind of suspension of politics, I want to tell the friends of Italy Viva, not because we have to give up criticism or discussion: no, that's not it. Surely that is not what the Democratic Party thinks. From the secretary Zingaretti, to the head of delegation Franceschini, to the group leaders has come on several occasions the request for correction to government action and, above all, the proposal for a renewed legislative pact, which was able to define a strategic horizon of priorities to be pursued, not based on emergency management, but on rebirth. We have requested and obtained the opening of a comparison and verification. That would have been the right place to find greater collegiality, where to clarify and resolve problems, where to continue the path of government in a renewed way. Renzi's choice was to simply pull the plug. It seems, for these reasons, to be a wrong, incomprehensible and unacceptable choice. [[Applause]] Now we really hope that the new path proposed by President Conte will start on new bases, starting with a rediscovered centrality of Parliament's role. To the appeal of President Conte we add our voice and our hope that those who recognize themselves in a reformist and European identity will join their contribution to the work of the Government. It is a clear and transparent appeal, pronounced in the institutional seat proper by those who do not barricade themselves behind numerical majorities, but asks the conscience of all, at a decisive moment for the national community, a choice of generosity, responsibility and commitment. It is the time of the builders, as President Mattarella recalls. The Democratic Party, since the beginning of this experience of government, has put itself in this logic and we have suffered, for this reason, also the criticism of some observer, who asked the Democratic Party for a more muscular role. We, however, without ever giving up our ideas and values, knew well that what was needed, in the interest of the country, was the daily commitment to keep together the different sensibilities, to promote collegiality, to overcome any risk of division. Even in recent weeks, Secretary Zingaretti and our ministers have left nothing unturned in order to avoid this dangerous, unmotivated and inappropriate crisis. We would not have wanted to find ourselves living this moment: not because of fears of balance or set-up, but because it is the furthest from what the country expects and asks us. Now, however, is the time of courage and we will not fail to make our contribution. We will vote for her trust, President Conte, convinced that, from now on, the path of the Government, as she has committed herself to doing, will be shared in a more intense way with her majority, who loyally supports her, but who wants to be increasingly involved in the responsibility of the Government at such a difficult stage. I would like to conclude with a thought of deep gratitude to President Mattarella: gratitude for the balance, wisdom and rigour with which he assures the country of the service of its mandate. To him, to his constant attention to the common good, we inspire our action and our choices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u86	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u87	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we have recorded over 80 000 deaths, 2 million people infected, 400,000 companies that have closed their doors and the collapse of GDP (less than 11%) and consumption. In addition to all this, Mr President-in-Office, we have had an increase in the number of new poor people and those who no longer resort to medical treatment. This, unfortunately, is for all of us the merciless photograph of what is outside this Palace: the royal country. And it is surreal the photograph of this Palace, which is forced to talk about a crisis in the dark of which you do not understand the contours. This crisis in the dark casts into dismay the entire Italian people, who are already on their knees for economic issues and also at psychological level tends to react with great difficulty. I am addressing President Renzi in particular. I call him President because he was President of the Council and perhaps more than all of us should have the two fundamental requirements for those who govern a country: credibility and reliability. That means being a man of state. I think that the image we are giving with this crisis not only to Italy, but also - indeed, above all - to the Member States of the European Union at this pandemic moment does not meet these two criteria. I put myself in the shoes of a German citizen, who may have to tax himself more to help Italy, and he sees that the response of this country is a crisis in the dark. Having said that, it seems to me that in this palace a sort of Medea syndrome has been going on for too many years. Do you remember the Greek tragedy in which Mother kills her children in order to strike and hurt her father? We do not care who the mother is and who the father is; we Christian Democrats will not allow the children to be the Italian people. President Conte, we are the UDC. Allow me to address Director Mentana, who in recent days said that the country hangs on Cesa's lips. To him I say: dear director, there were Christian Democrats around, as Christian Democrats is synonymous with common sense, balance and sense of the state. This is what we are, and in this spirit we have faced your Government Count 1, with a yellow-green majority, and your Count 2, with a Giallorossi majority, never before. We have always voted no to trust, but we have always placed the country's interest at the heart of our action. We did so when it came to voting on the deviation, even though we asked you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to make a constructive bridge to the opposition because we are in war (there are no collapsed buildings, but people who die). There we criticized her, because we would need a constructive dialogue in the diversity of positions. This would perhaps have facilitated the 167 decrees put in place on the table. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are aware of the enormous responsibilities that lie with all the members sitting on the government bench, but at the same time we ask you not to close yourselves in curly because many of your measures, which can be shared, have not had that landing hoped for in the homes of Italians and companies because they may not have had the capacity to be immediate. Ristors have dignity if appropriate and not random parameters are taken. I think, at least, of the turnover of companies, which gives dignity to the refreshment, as happened in Germany and other European countries. Mr President, we have taken a positive look at certain aspects of your report, including the subject of Europe. Finally, this government has put our pro-Atlantic position in the wild without whether or not but, and especially pro-European. As De Gasperi has taught us, only with more Europe, with a more supportive Europe you can get out of these crises. I do not hide the aspect of the electoral law, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. As everyone in this Parliament knows, we are in proportion. Attention, I say to the whole Parliament that we are not afraid of elections; we are the UDC, Mr Conte, in 2008 we went alone, we did not bow to any invitation and we went alone to the elections, so let alone if we fear them. However, we do not want the country to fall into the swamp for other months and we trust, as some previous colleagues have said, in the wisdom of the President of the Republic. In 2008 the UDC slogan was as follows: our values are not for sale. This is central to us. The family, of which everyone speaks and fills their mouths, must help her. We have deep respect for all forms of family, we are not intolerant but we ask that in this country no child should call his father or mother parent one and parent two, because during the period of the pandemic the family was the most important social shock absorber. Let's value it, let's not put it aside, let's not exploit it. As we have done so far, we will not vote for trust in your Government, but in a non-prejudice way, as we have always done, we will listen to it and assume our responsibilities when you present measures for the common good in the general interest. Let me conclude with an extraordinary song that Francesco De Gregori wrote in 1979, in the dark period of the Republic: Live Italy with dry eyes in the dark night, live Italy, Italy that is not afraid. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u89	Mr President, first of all, in the chaos of political confusion that we are witnessing in these hours, the President-in-Office of the Council must remove a doubt that is a little harassing about one million agricultural VAT consignments. In fact, we have known that he has decided to make also the Minister of agricultural food and forestry policies of this country and since agriculture together with the agro-food industry have a cube equal to about 25% of our GDP, we ask her if she intends to be the Minister in time lost or full time and above all we hope that that Ministry will not enter into the logic of the partitions and promises of places that you are making to fellow senators in order to vote for you the confidence [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have listened to your speech and we are genuinely speechless, because you have spent a great deal of it talking about electoral law and the reform of parliamentary regulations. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, since you have taken the legislative power of DPCM out of Parliament over the last few months, we are afraid that you will now take away your right to work as well, since, as you well know, you are a lawyer and a graduate of law, the power to decide on parliamentary regulations and the electoral law is the legislator's. We want to prevent you from taking as a model those countries that are an example of the majority that supports it: I am thinking of China and Venezuela. [[Applause]] We therefore ask you to maintain democracy and, above all, to respect Parliament: you speak about the things that you are responsible for, since you are not able to do so. [[Applause]] Count, listening to your speech, I was very disappointed, because you seemed to me like a kind of Arturo Brachetti of politics. I am referring to that illusionist who changes his clothes at the speed of light and she seemed to us the Arturo Brachetti of politics. Then yesterday, listening to his speech in the House (but I listened to him again today), it occurred to me that when I was a child there was advertising a toy. I'm talking about the Playmobils, which were plastic men. President, there was an ad called a Playmobil millevite: a little man you could turn into a lot of characters. [[Applause]] President, do you want the populist and sovereign Premier? You change and it is available to a yellow-green majority; change your mind and you want the European Premier and friend of Merkel? One smile is enough and you're satisfied. Is it Premier Sheriff's time? Here he is wearing the leader's shoes with Salvini and away to the security decrees, but - better yet - you want the scafist prize? Befriend Carola Rackete. [[Applause]] He is a Premier for all seasons, Mr. Conte: liberal, but socialist; 100 first yes, but then no; on the TAV yes, no, maybe. Nothing's been understood. I was first told about bathing concessions and then we go to Gentiloni and tell him to send us a letter from Europe so that we at least take a step back. First he's a fan of Trump and then Biden and so on and we could go on for hours. President, he holds the record that will be remembered in the Guinness of Records. I'm referring to the record of transformation. Even Crispi and Depretis weren't able to do that much. [[Applause]] In our country you hold this record. In modern world history it is even worse: there is no Premier who automatically passed from one majority to another. Do you know where and when this happened? In the City of Milan in the eighties with Pillitteri, which passed from one majority to another. It was just there. So, you represent a record and you'll make us proud to have a Premier recordman. President, the problem is that this record carries it forward with a motto: France or Spain provided that it is magna. [[Applause]] League, Movimento 5 Stars, PD, LEU, Italy Viva, managers, builders, socialists and senators for life with one and only program: the fall. [[Applause]] Gentlemen, you have to go home because your time is up. This Government was born on September 5, 2019 and you told the Italians and also the President of the Republic - telling the lies to the President of the Republic is not good - that you were born because you had to avoid the increase of VAT because we, who were bad, had dropped a Government that had to avoid the increase of VAT. You avoided the increase in VAT; go home. [[Applause]] Gentlemen, why are you still there? In fact, it was not the increase in VAT, on which millions of Italians believed. The truth is that it was not necessary to allow Italians to vote, it was not necessary to win the elections in Salvini, it was not necessary to give full powers to the bad guys of the League, who asked for it with lessons and not like you. At this point I turn to my colleagues from Italy Viva. You didn't want to give Salvini full power by voting, you gave them to Count without a vote. You gave it to him, give it to him. Ladies and gentlemen, it took us a year and four months to realize who the Count really was. Italy Viva took a year and five months. The next few may take a year and six months, but then they'll get the same opinion that we have of President Conte. President Conte, perhaps the builders will become the bad guys on duty, but at this point the question we ask ourselves is: builders or traitors? [[Applause]] I say this with all due respect for Parliament and for those who are sitting in Parliament: this is a parliamentary democracy and, therefore, majorities are made and decided in Parliament. But, ladies and gentlemen of the left, we cannot think that if there is a transhumance from right to left, they are builders and if there is transhumance from left to right they are traitors. I would remind you that there were traitors to Razzi and Scilipoti; I would like to address my colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars who were sitting in this Parliament in the last parliamentary term, who told them all kinds of things. If Races and Scilipots were traitors, then those who pass through here and sit with your majority are equally traitors. Otherwise, they are parliamentarians who choose freely. [[Applause]] You have to go home, President. You have failed on everything, even in communication, President, with a ballet of statements, statements, DPCM and crazy choices of "arcuriana" memory. It will go down in history, perhaps more than you, because I think that Arcuri has done more damage than you (and it takes). [[Applause]] I remind you of some of your sentences. October 25: We ask for further sacrifices to the Italians, they are necessary measures for a peaceful Christmas. And everyone: go, it's nice, at least Christmas we'll spend it with relatives. 18 December: we must strengthen the system of necessary measures also with a view to the resumption of activities in January. You closed me first, because you told me I had to stay open for Christmas, but at Christmas you closed me (and that's okay) telling me that then in January we will open. She said it, she didn't say Centinario or Salvini's bad guy. January 11: a surge of contagions is coming, we must make sacrifices. But Alura, do we want to give a line to this country or are we at the market? Or are we inventing a press conference every time at dinner time, so at least we're going to break up Italian families? [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .a health and economic disaster. And you, President, what have you done? A figure from the CGIA di Mestre: 423 billion missed receipts in 2020. The rest of the business that has been expected since March for closed companies is EUR 23 billion: 7%, a begging, we are the worst. And I say to you, President: do you know why we don't trust you, given this data, and do you know why your promises make us angry, and so much? Because you, President, on 26 March 2020 told Italian companies that no one would be left behind. [[Applause.]] You promised the country, ma'am. And instead Confcommercio, on 28 December 2020, tells us that in 2020 they have closed more than 300,000 enterprises; we have lost 17% of the enterprises of the commerce, the clothing and the footwear, 12 percent of the streetwalkers, 10 percent of the distributors of fuel, 21 percent from the travel agencies. And since the phenomenon has been talking about tourism, explain what the travel agencies are to Minister Franceschini, who doesn't even know the difference between a travel agency and a tour operator! [[Applause]] We have lost 14% of bars and restaurants and almost 30% of the culture and sport sector. And to these are added 200,000 professionals and VAT matches; almost half a million people. At this point, President Count, it is for that almost half a million people that I would say to you, half a million times: go home. Go home! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u90	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u91	Mr President, Mr Conte, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens who listen to us from outside (in my speech to you I will address you several times), today has been a very busy day. Since this morning I have listened to all the speeches, including those of my colleagues in the opposition. Of course the opposition does its job; while not sharing the tones of some interventions, it is natural that they express their opinion, even in disagreement, as it is right that it should be. I cannot help but mention two speeches. The first is that of Senator Gasparri, who is fixed with the Movimento 5 Stars. It's weird, Senator Gasparri, because the stars are a source of inspiration, make you dream and often indicate the way, while they give you nightmares. [[Applause]] So, I don't know, see her. Then there is a question that has remained unanswered - to which I will perhaps try to give an answer - of Senator Romeo, who asked President Conte who will ever be and why is he so defended? Let me explain this to you: because he is the President of the Council most loved by Italians, that is the truth. [[Applause]] Italy is going through an undoubted moment of difficulty and such a serious one has not been seen since the last war; indeed, what we are facing is something that goes beyond the war. The numbers in these days are also dramatic: the contagions seem slowly to decrease, but they are still very high and so also the number of deaths. I am sincere in saying to you, citizens who listen to us, but also to you colleagues, that the last thing I would have expected and hoped to do today is talk about a crisis of government, a mechanism that we can hardly explain within this House and these buildings, but also to the citizens who are outside of here. It is clear that a government made up of a heterogeneous majority goes on even with a number of difficulties, but I believe that the work done by this majority has achieved more than appreciable results. At such a difficult time, Italy was able to intervene quickly to stop this epidemic. On the vaccination level, she was among the first to intervene: we are the nation that has the highest number of vaccinees in Europe to date, and this is a figure we have had thanks to the action made by Minister Hope and this majority. [[Applause]] Then there are the economic measures against the crisis: more than 40 measures to combat the epidemic; more than 100 billion have been foreseen in the four deviations that we have already voted on and another we will vote on in the next few days, for about 32 billion. These are just some of the measures that this majority has allowed the government to take forward to give immediate answers to the citizens who are outside. We have also launched measures that give an innovative vision to this country, but those who do not want to see them will continue to do so anyway. I am referring, for example, to the superbonus, with the possibility of renewing the private building heritage of Italians [[Applause]] , to improve it also from the static point of view. These measures have given enormous amounts of oxygen to sectors such as construction, which go from North to South. Colleagues, this time I have no reason to go against the oppositions, because this crisis was wanted by the majority and I cannot understand the real motivation. In these days and even in the previous months I had an excellent relationship with my colleagues in Italy Viva: we worked well in the Commissions and we constantly compare. This crisis - which I do not know if it was wanted by the whole of Italy Viva or only by one person - is, however, really incomprehensible. Believe me, it's not like people outside don't understand. [[Applause]] : He understood well that they are modes and strategies that do not fit the gravity of the historical moment that we are experiencing. Let us move forward, then, and it is good for President Conte to open up to a majority that is as broad as possible, because the exceptionality of the moment deserves to break the patterns and to make the broadest possible reasoning. No, it's not the cow market, what was there years ago in these buildings; it's not that. [[Comments]] We are talking about an absolutely exceptional historical moment, which as such must be treated. The change has already begun, thanks to the work of this majority. Consider that in these days a process is taking place, "Rebirth Scott" which is the largest anti-mafia operation since the Maxiprocess. I take advantage of this brief space to express my gratitude, on my behalf, to the entire Group and to all Italians, to the Attorney Gratteri for the outstanding work he is carrying out. [[Applause]] I also want to thank Minister Hope for the response he gave to Moratti; as if there could be priority in administering the vaccine to be awarded to the regions on the basis of GDP, as if the rich had to vaccinate before the poorest. [[Applause]] You have answered correctly, Mr President. Mr Conte, I have already expressed my personal closeness and support to you, and I do so on behalf of all the Movimento 5 Stars, all in one block. I shall conclude by quoting a book that I invite everyone to read, the scent of hope, written by a young policeman from Trapani, adopted when he was in bands and who, at some point in his life, felt the need to find his roots; this is an issue, that of the search for his origins, which we will have to address, Mr President. The author took a path alone that led him, a bit like salmon, against the current, to find his origins and his biological parents in Brazil. Here, Mr. Conte, I like to conclude: you are giving the Italians the scent of hope for a restart that must absolutely exist; Go forward, do not turn, that behind you there will be all the Movimento 5 Stars, all the majority, but above all the Italian people. Go on! [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u92	Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u93	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the political crisis caused by Italy Viva is undoubtedly untimely and inappropriate for the moment it is going through the country. The citizens are asking us for solutions, not hesitations, and we have a duty to overcome this uncertainty as soon as possible. Such a crisis can however be the occasion for a restart with a legislative pact that places the basis of the revival of government action some essential structural measures linked to the economic maintenance of the country system, but also for a greater commitment of the progressive and reformist coalition in the field of civil rights and fragile people. First of all, we cannot miss the recovery fund train, the Next Generation EU programme launched by the European Union, which allocates EUR 209 billion of the total 750 million to Italy, which is 28%, with the explicit mandate to promote sustainable development, to reduce social and territorial inequalities, to support technological innovation and to increase competitiveness. Cohesion, inequalities and sustainable and technological development draw our attention to the Mezzogiorno and the islands. Twenty years ago, we lost the opportunity to include the Mediterranean area in the trans-European networks, which are essential for the completion of the single European market. Since then, also due to the combined arrangement of geopolitical changes in the Mediterranean area, resulting from the new war winds after 11 September 2001, all the economic and social conditions of the Mezzogiorno have deteriorated. With the parameters chosen to allocate resources - unemployment, per capita income, strong youth migration and depopulation, as well as accumulated loss of GDP - 111 of the 209 billion euros would be attributable to the South and the island system. It is Europe's interest to reactivate Euro-Mediterranean policies. It is Italy's interest that the Mezzogiorno can contribute to national wealth. It is necessary that the resources are directed primarily to block the increasing infrastructural gap between the southern and northern regions of Italy. Filling the deficit of road networks, fast railways, port infrastructures and motorways of the sea is essential to put into system a territory today shattered with coastal areas, ports and internal areas mutually inaccessible. The infrastructure needs to be functional to urban regeneration, to mitigate natural risks, to relaunch advanced tertiary cultural tourist vocations. It would be necessary to promote economic activities in harmony with the nature of the territories. Such structural interventions will also have to make a decisive contribution to the mitigation of seismic and hydrogeological risk. No less important are investments in technological and scientific infrastructures, such as Einstein Telescope, which could offer an opportunity for development and at the same time contain the escape of young and creative people. I would like to draw attention, for me, to the issue of civil rights; the rediscovered cohesion of the majority must move forward with a revival of government and Parliament's action on issues that have been waiting for years to resolve. The question of ius soli is no longer postponed and had already been raised by some government forces at the time of Count 2. It must now be resumed and put on the agenda. Equal attention must be paid to the transparency of acts kept by the State and so far secreted and therefore not available for consultation by citizens. We need transparency and streamlined procedures for access and certain times so that... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . Secret administrative authorities are made public and the subject of a comparison between the social and political forces of majority and opposition. I believe that the time has also come to resolve the issue of fragile people, so that adequate protection and assistance can be provided to them. More than forty years after the so-called Basaglia Act and sixteen years after the adoption of the Support Administration Act, the institutes of prohibition and inability are still anachronistically abused in our system. It is time to heal this vulnus. With this wish, I renew my confidence that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will be able to move forward: 'Fortza Paris!', which translated from the Sardinian language into Italian means 'forward together'. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u94	I suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. for sanitization and immediately convene the Conference of the Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 4.29 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u95	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 26 January. Tomorrow, at 10.30 a.m., former Senator Misserville, who has recently disappeared, will be remembered by the Presidency. Groups will be able to intervene for three minutes each. The resolution of the Shareholders' Meeting will follow on the question submitted in accordance with Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure on the decree-law containing further provisions for the containment of the Covid-19 and the holding of the elections for the year 2021, presented last Thursday to the Senate. Also tomorrow, at 4 p.m., the Presidency will commemorate former Senator Macaluso, who passed away this morning. Groups will be able to intervene for three minutes each. The report on the deviation from the medium-term objective, for which an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is to be voted, will then be discussed. The timing was divided between the Groups for a total of two hours and thirty minutes, including explanations of vote, in addition to speeches by the rapporteur and the Government. The Assembly will meet again on Tuesday, 26 January, at 4.30 p.m., with communications from the President on the next schedule of work to be defined by the Conference of the Leaders, convened at 3 p.m. on the same day.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u96	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until January 26: [[Wednesday, January 20 h. 10,30 - Deliberation on a proposal for a preliminary question concerning the draft law n. 2066 - Decree-Law n. 2, Further provisions for emergency epidemiological prevention by COVID-19 and elections for the year 2021 - Doc. LVII- bis, n. 4 - Report to the Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243 (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) * (16 hours)]] * Motions for resolutions to the Report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 should be tabled before the conclusion of the general discussion. [[Tuesday, 26 January h. 16.30 - Statement by the President on the timetable of proceedings]] Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII-a, No 4 (Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012) (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 15' Government 15' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: M5S 31' L-SP-PSd'Az 24' FIBP-UDC 22' PD 18' Mixed 16' FdI 14' IV-PSI 14' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 11' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u97	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, colleagues, there's too much buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u98	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this place demands and deserves respect and your assessment, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, of the fact that this crisis is incomprehensible, requires us in Italy Viva and I personally to take the opportunity and tell you, looking into your eyes, what has led each of us in these months to move away from that of the Government. When a story comes to an end, it is worth saying things without anything remaining: we think that your Government is not the most beautiful, nor - as you said - the best in the world; we think that for the drama of the pandemic and for the tragedy in progress there is a need for a stronger government. We do not think that, in the face of the tragedy that this country is experiencing and that you remember punctually here and elsewhere, this political narrative can suffice: the other countries copy us, we are a model. There has not yet been an institutional crisis, because you have not resigned to the Quirinale, but there are three major, enormous and dramatic crises which have been open for some time and certainly not because of you, Mr President. The first is the economic one: Italy is the worst of all from the point of view of the fall of GDP in the year 2020, with a decrease of 10%, and the optimistic forecasts of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which foresee a growth of 6%, are denied first of all by the Bank of Italy, which for 2021 predicts a growth halved compared to that of the Executive. So we have a negative record: we are the worst in the world in the economy. There is a second dramatic element, namely the health crisis. Our nurses, our doctors and our staff are extraordinary, but Italy is the country in the world that has the worst relationship between population and deaths for Covid. This leads to a reflection: not enough narratives about how good we have been or how it will be okay. We need to invest more in health care, do it better and do it now. The third and final point, which I would like to mention, among many, concerns our negative record in the educational and school crisis. This is never discussed in a strategic and accomplished way and when, in March 2020, I tried, together with my colleagues, to propose that we organize ourselves in time to leave with the school, there was a unanimous choir, saying that it was not the time. The fact is that Italy is the country that sent its children to school less than all the others in Europe. These three negative records are boulders that have not entered your speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I would have expected from you an ambitious list: not titles or a summary of open points, but a great dream for the future of the country, a vision or a horizon. We did not ask her to settle for some place, but we proposed that she open up: in Parliament a great debate on what the future of the country must be and then really do so. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you were afraid to go up to the Quirinale the day after your resignation, not because you put the country's destiny at the centre, but because you chose an institutional castle, which I hope will be useful for you and the government, but which I fear will be harmful to the institutions. It has asked for clarity, transparency and frankness and, as you can see, I am happy with it. He says that citizens don't understand and that, in fact, he doesn't understand you either. Mr President, do not be wrong to your intelligence, of which I think it is. We have been asking you, with respect, for months in this House. In May, Minister Bonafede, who sits on his right, was the subject of a motion of distrust, which we shared. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have stood up in this House and asked the majority for a gesture of responsibility and we have followed it. In July, I got up from this desk and asked that August be devoted only to discussing the recovery plan, but we were not followed or satisfied; indeed, in December, when an indecent draft of the recovery plan arrived in the Council of Ministers and we said that it was not appropriate to talk about it, a minister of his government said that Renzi was like Orban, because he wanted to block the recovery plan. In September, after the regional elections, Italy Viva - but not only - used these words: change of pace and qualitative leap. In November, we met twice at Palazzo Chigi and his hospitality was as extraordinary as ever; we said to make a political table within the month, to close open problems. In December we wrote her a four-page letter, to which she never responded. In January we sent the Democratic Party and the others in the coalition a list, with the thirty main dossiers. Mr President, do not be wrong to your intelligence, but not to ours either. We have been asking you to change for months and we are asking for a breakthrough. It is not true that we have been impatient or irresponsible, perhaps we have been too patient. You need to tell yourself things to your face, in a liberating and quiet way. He said that this is not the time for a crisis: many people have said so, even my friends at the bar. Communication has passed: this is not the time to open a crisis. I respect you, Mr President, but this is the time to look into it, really and thoroughly, and decide. You, who know Greek better than I, know that this is a kairos, an opportune moment, because now or never you can have the debate. Those who say that during the pandemic cannot speak of politics deny among the constitutional freedoms removed at this time even the duty to deal with the common good. Now we're playing the future, not in six months. Mr President, now or never, because there is a new President of the United States of America. Today is the last night that Donald Trump will sleep in Lincoln's room; from tomorrow a new page opens, with Joe Biden, with multilateralism, with a man leading the United States who has a great passion for Europe and Italy. Mr President, now or never, because a few days ago, in Alula, the city recently visited by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, impressive agreements were signed in the Arab world which marked a turning point, particularly for Libya. No more talk about it; Turkey has become the main country that guides the future of Libya, and not us. Mr President, now or never because, a few days ago, while we were fighting and debating, Macron and Merkel closed an agreement with the European institutions together with China, and we, who were the first to sign the One Belt One Road project, did not even enter the game. Mr President, now or never, because Brexit now plays its challenge. What a dream it would be to allow younger children to finally imagine a great investment in universities and institutions that are now in difficulty by the lack of Erasmus in the UK. How nice it would be to make our universities a centre of attraction! How nice it would be to discuss young people and the future, and not just internal begas! Now or never, because this is the year of the G20 and the Cop26. Now or never, Mr President, because now the boys must be sent back to school. In this sense, we have made a small proposal, not speeches: we have suggested starting next week and giving the 476,000 doses of Pfizer vaccine to teachers in upper and lower secondary schools, which are 435,000; we begin to say that the school is the starting point for a country, not the wheelchairs (for which EUR 461 million were thrown away, Mr President). Now or never for the economy, because, if we continue with a logic of small and micro interventions, which unfortunately has also engaged in part of the budget law, we do not emerge from the crisis. We have 160 percent debt; the kids are locked in the house and will pay the bill for this crisis more than anyone else. What next generation EU, if we are not in a position to leave to our children nothing but mountains of debt? Now or never for the ESM, Mr President: do we invest EUR 2700 each for health and Germany EUR 5,100; will there be a link between these two things or not? Having said no to the ESM in June to date cost 564 million to the national community. I am thinking of the whole Amaldi plan, the research plan that, for example, many researchers have asked for funding. I'm thinking about all the investments we can make for territorial medicine, but also for personalized medicine and technological innovation. Either we do it now or he'll never come back. I'm sorry if I use an aural tone, but we'll be cursed by our kids if we don't invest in school and health care now. Let me tell you that these are political issues; you may agree or not, but this is what we have discussed up to now: artificial intelligence, not the abolition of poverty; lottery of receipts, not cities of the future; NIMBY logic, not how to make green jobs, green jobs, the possibility of increasing employment; of those who have to buy the Monte dei Paschi di Siena by leaning on those same consultants who twenty years ago have already combined enough mess, not the third sector and the social economy. Mr President, we would like to talk to you about these issues, like tourism (I mention only one of them and then I stop, because I want to get to the political side). All over the world - and those around the world, even now, or at any rate working with international institutions know - are preparing for a huge rebound on tourism, because, after people have been housed for a year and a half, when in six or three months - hopefully as soon as possible - vaccines will allow us to return to normal, there will be a crazy spring of investment in tourism. Today we lack a large investment in these sectors. We asked that the Next generation EU could invest more. Who's losing today? Some say Count, Renzi or Italia Viva. I can think of that page of "I Malavoglia" - which you certainly know better than I do - in which Uncle Crucified receives the news that in the battle someone of the country, Luca, died; the speziale says that, in short, they have lost a battle and it is a bad thing, but, when asked who has lost, he answers: I, you, ALL of you, Italy. And in that moment, the wooden bell answers: I didn't lose anything! Well, it is the same thing that is happening today. It seems that the debate is about individual people: I have lost nothing; we have lost nothing, Mr President; it is Italy, however, that is losing the worst thing to lose, which is the biggest opportunity, more than the Marshall plan. The seats, the seats, the assignments pass, they get lost and they resume; the opportunities never again. That is why I am saying that we must act now and ask you, Mr Conte, to make a great investment in the future. [[Applause]] That is why I ask you - or, better, I asked you in the past - to take a step forward. You don't just turn everything into a mere distribution of assignments. Mr Conte, I am not saying this ironically: I understand that in fact he has arrived at politics, in fact, at the first post, as President of the Council and, of course, it is a great responsibility. She has missed, however, all that part of politics that is the game, the commitment and the battles, won and lost. He probably imagines that politics is really the art of government, which is very difficult, despite the ironies of someone. In this art of government, however, Mr President, we cannot just assign one chair to each other to keep a majority standing. I say this because some of my colleagues in the opposition, who have said it in the newspapers, and even some of us have given the idea of worrying at this time more about placing someone in the right place. I have to say, he never disrespected me. When I came to visit her, she asked me, with great kindness, if I were interested in international assignments and I, with as much kindness, told her no, for a very simple reason: at this moment, the personal destiny of Guy, Caio or Sempronio is not at stake, but the future of the country. I understand that you are struggling to accept this, I stress, but when two women resign from the position of Minister and do so with the history of Teresa Bellanova, trade unionist, congresswoman, senator and Minister of the Republic, you should have respect for those who abandon an armchair in exchange for an idea! [[Applause]] When Elena Bonetti returns to university leaving Parliament, she performs a huge act, which in republican history was not done, by a team, since 1990! And go and study history and who were those ministers who resigned. When this noble gesture becomes the object of irony, Mr. Count, we are losing sight of reality. She, in fact, did the opposite: she changed the third majority in three years, to stay where she is; she ruled with Matteo Salvini, who today I know is the point of reference of progressiveism. You, however, were the President-in-Office of the Council who signed the Salvini decrees on immigration and quota 100; then you became a Europeanist: I am happy and proud of that. It is now going to the third different majority. Save us, however, sentences like "Biden agenda is my agenda," after saying "Trump agenda is mine." Mr Conte, with regard to the United States of America, you represent Italy: do not try to have such a provincial attitude that, depending on the leader, you are happy to say that our agenda is their agenda. We must have a profoundly different attitude. If he goes to the General Assembly of the United Nations and claims his sovereignism - with the thesis, for me questionable, that it is in the Constitution (but it is my opinion) - he cannot then come and say that he wants to be an anti-Sovereignist leader. If you go to the League's political education school with Armando Siri to say you're populist, don't tell me now that you want to rule with an anti-populist majority. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you cannot change your mind to keep the chair. Have the strength to do something different: send a deep message to the country. Stories that there is a space for all of us [[Applause]] , majority and opposition, which cannot be erased by the fact that a party is at 2%. I have heard authoritative leaders say that unpopularity prevents us from speaking. How can one with low popularity bring his ideas? This is the final transformation of politics into reality show and the idea that consensus prevails over ideas: you can't talk, because you don't have consent [[Applause]] ; But then you find out that if you ask something about the secret service, they say no the first, the second and the third time, but in the fourth time they say yes. It's not polls that run a country. Mr President, I have three things to say to you, in conclusion. The first is that he has chosen, quite legitimately, a strategy. Faced with our demand for policy and to talk about young people, innovation, tourism and technology, he chose to perch and come to Parliament. Some zealous collaborator of your staff has shown that you use institutional communication from Palazzo Chigi, with the money paid by the taxpayer, to attack political opponents (unless it is really a case of hackers, which would be a very serious thing). You, Mr President, chose to play the card of the attack on the other in the name of irresponsibility. Who's irresponsible? Who asks you to talk about politics and offers you a concrete space to reason for the future of the country or who says no to money for health care with the same force with which he said no to vaccines, the Euro and the TAV and today explains the importance of health, Europeanism and infrastructure? [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you can come to Parliament and find a majority. Let us see if it will reach 161 votes. There have been moments in republican history when this majority has not been found. I turn to the friends and comrades of the Democratic Party. In 1987 the Leader of Christian Democracy - his name was Mino Martinazzoli - in front of a government of non-confidence, said these words: We're not playing along, you know. And we are asked, rather, if your packed and exuberant company is, then, so cheerful and carefree or if it does not feel the nostalgia of something challenging that reassures it. I believe that politics is elsewhere and that, sooner or later, you will have to go back there. We are waiting for you there. I think this is the debate. If you want an abstract chat on the big themes, do it. If you want to give concrete answers to Italians - and that is the second point - make it quick. Do you want to move forward with a collectible majority in front of the biggest plan for the future of the country? I hope it is at least a majority; it certainly is. I repeat: I hope it is a majority, but be quick because you do not have time to waste. Let me turn to the third and final point. They told us if you leave, you'll lose everything. Yes, and we say that looking into your eyes because for us, unlike others, politics is not changing ideas to keep in the same chair. [[Applause]] There is one fundamental point on which I want to focus very clearly and this is the following. When this summer the boys of Italy Viva will go to the school of political formation will receive a message from Teresa Bellanova, Elena Bonetti and Ivan Scalfarotto: when you make politics you can also give up an armchair, but you cannot give up an idea. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I hope that in the coming days and weeks you will put the ideas at the centre and not the exchange of seats, because the country does not deserve an indecorous market right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u99	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u100	Mr President, I have to change my whole speech because I do not need to criticize this Government, since it is doing it on its own. I refer in full to the criticism of this Executive made by those who founded, wanted and imposed, with a beautiful maneuver, the Government of the Movimento 5 Stars to which all the others are added that, until then, towards the Giallorossi Government (and therefore of the Movimento 5 Stars), said plague and horns. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I do not need to add a single word to express my opposition to how you have managed not only the Covid, but also all the events related to politics, the economy and the rights of Italians since you were President of the Council, but also to a large extent in your first version. However, I must admit that you are actually a successful man, for goodness sake; indeed, a successful loser, but still a success, but - I repeat - you are a loser because you did not win the election - indeed, you did not even participate in it, you did not buy the lottery ticket - you lost the government's bet with Salvini and - we heard it - the trust of Renzi, of those who invented this Government. He also lost face not showing up resigning after two ministers resigned and his support was taken away. He is a successful loser, who has colored himself of every color, of more colors than he has attributed in time of coronavirus to the poor Italian regions. Now you tell us that you want to move on, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I understand that it is in all other business, that you do not need to hear criticism because you already have your ego and you do not need to listen to us, as you have never done in recent months, but I tell you the same. You say you want to move on with the values - you say - of high politics, what I really like, that politics out of passion and not out of interest, that policy that rejects all sorts of choices for pure convenience and opportunism. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must say to you that you are actually right - and I never thought I should believe this - to what the President of the United States, Reagan, whom I never believed, said that politics was the second profession in the world and that he said he had come to realize that it was strongly similar to the first profession chosen by humanity. In reality, your intervention, net of false triumphalism and the inevitable good and unattainable goals for the future, is just a miserable attempt to convince some senator in search of author - or perhaps of resources for the mortgage of the house to pay - to turn your back on the voters who sent him here and to give her those votes that you hope will be enough to make her float again. You have tried throughout your speech to make a benevolent captatio, which is present in every word of yours, in search of the needy, other than builders; needing at least to return or remain as long as possible in Parliament. She has desperately tried to offer dignity to those who, if they voted for it, would have only the disgust that the traitors reserve; disgust - be careful - that in her heart and in your heart you also reserved to those who change the flag. You have tried, but you have not managed to divide the center-right and have officially appealed to those who, according to your vision, could represent important political cultures to be added to the post-communists, post-Stalinists, the grills and prosperans who already vote for you; you turn to liberals, populars, self-governmentists, socialists and those who have more to put them, all together. However, not only we of Brothers of Italy, who call ourselves patriots; not only the League, which you say you do not want as the fox with grapes, but also Forza Italia, Toti, Lupi, Quagliarello, Cesa and the most socialist of all present here, that is, Stefania Craxi, have told you no. Everyone - like for other reasons told her instead his friend Mastella who then came to her shoulder - told her something of the type: there is no one who is stupid, as he said exactly Mastella. However, you are well aware that in any case it will not reach 161 votes; in any case you will not reach that majority of those with voting rights, and this despite the incomprehensible help of the senators for life, who are thus at risk of being right to those who would like to abolish the article of the Constitution which allows them to be in this House. The truth is that you - and you listen to me on this passage, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - failed any attempt to find sufficient shores in those who are in opposition to this Government, to continue to live up to it, you will need everyone or part of the 18 senators of the Italian Viva Group. President of the Council, Count, I challenge you to state in your reply that, if by chance you pass the votes of the centre-right - I do not think that will happen - thanks to the Renzi senators - are one, two or all 17 - you will not accept those votes after what you have heard from Renzi and will resign. In fact, I did not hear any of those 17 express different opinions. It would be possible if they had done so in a transparent manner; they did not and then I challenge you: you must have 161 votes or at least one vote more than the center-right without the votes of the Renzians or you must resign. Lawyer Conte - Meloni called him an attorney of the office; in fact, as a lawyer he became a jailer of the Italians - without this minimum majority of 161 planned for many votes, starting with tomorrow's vote on the budgetary deviation, do you really think that you get the approval of the President of the Republic to continue to do with these numbers the President of the Council? I have no disrespect for remembering that Mattarella did not give the position in 2018 to center-right and Salvini, because he did not have the certainty that there was a majority in Parliament that supported that central-right government. I do not say anything new and I do not lack respect if I remember that all the newspapers of a few days ago interpreted the thought of the Guarantor of the Constitution giving him the intention that, in the presence of a crisis, the only way would be the elections. Do you really think that the President of the Republic will deny himself to continue to make her lively? You do not remember that the last center-right government of Berlusconi, on November 8, 2011, beat the oppositions on the balance sheet of the previous year with the votes that did not represent the absolute majority, went to the Colle and resigned, as the President of the Republic had asked him at the time. It was November 12, 2011 and had 309 votes in the House. Mr President, I therefore believe that you, if you have one more vote than the centre-right, will have to resign immediately. The main way is to give the people a voice again. The main way is to hear what the Italians think of your Government and what Government they want. I believe that you will have to resign immediately if you do not reach that level, even in the unfortunate hypothesis that it would exceed one vote the centerright later. Everything can be achieved in life; it can also be overcome by using the betrayal of others. You can pretend to believe that one day everyone has to respond to the voters who sent him here and another day that the Constitution guarantees everyone to think of the opposite, but there is a limit to everything. Mr President, you have exceeded this limit; this limit was insurmountable; this limit must lead you to resign at the end of this day of work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u101	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have appreciated and shared, Mr Conte, your choice to come to Parliament, the only way to have a clear and transparent debate; but I also appreciated your choice to avoid the duel, because what we have before us is a political problem, and not a confrontation between people. You have spoken to everyone - I stress this - about the serious problems that the country is experiencing. What matters most is not so much our judgment that we are and remain convinced in the majority. Reasoned opinion: this crisis is a serious and irresponsible act. What matters most and which makes the figure of judgment on who opened this crisis is the short circuit that has been realized in the country. That's the problem. And I would like to tell Senator Renzi that this short circuit is not the result of communication, but it is the substance of a country that cannot understand, in the face of more than 80,000 deaths and a dramatic economic crisis, the opening of a crisis. You can't understand that. [[Applause]] Yeah, politics isn't a reality show. Politics is project, values. Politics is not "me," but "we," and it cannot be reduced to maneuvering and gambling. In fact, in a very difficult moment of discussion such as the current one, politics, the one with the capital "P," knows how to work on the synthesis and the ability to face the problems. Was everything okay? No. As you know, President Conte, I pointed out in several passages that everything was not okay, even if no one here can do lessons, because we found ourselves in an unprecedented situation. I have said so many times that no one can act like the one who has the truth in his pocket. But the paradox is that this happens just when you were working to make a qualitative leap, and the conditions were there. I also say this to my colleagues from Italia Viva, who live like us the difficulty of this situation. There were conditions for a pop-by, there were signs. We had changed and improved the recovery plan, but someone decided to open the crisis, with everything that this means internationally (just read the press review). What should be the outcome of this crisis in the dark? Pretend nothing happened? Look: it's not a problem of rifts or grudges; I'm afraid the problem is more serious. The question we have to ask ourselves is: if we were to answer that nothing happened, would the country understand? That's the problem. In the face of a political action that deconstructs and disassembles, we cannot pretend that nothing has happened; in question there is the credibility of politics. So, I want to take this crisis seriously. And it is clear that, in order to resolve it, we cannot give a mandate to political manoeuvre, but - as you said, Mr President - here we need a revival, with a clear political project. Moreover, if we are to be clear, today the political confrontation in the world, in Europe and also in Italy is very clear and it is on two visions; we have seen it in the United States, even in its most dramatic aspects, and so it is here too. On the one hand, there is a sovereignist right and at the same time a liberalist, who invests in fear and urges all selfishness; and if anyone had any doubts, the dramatic idea of distributing vaccines based on GDP is a sad and tragic confirmation. [[Applause]] On the other hand, there is the idea - our own - which is convincedly pro-European in order to change Europe, for a new Europe that bets on the community; our idea of promoting, in the dramatic economic and social crisis, a new model of development, a new idea of society. The ecological transformations, the old and new inequalities, a new redistribution of work, the technological revolution: everything has already changed even before the Covid. Our problem, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is first and foremost: in this country do not answer with the "nothing changes." So, we're not looking for a transformist project, some anchor or a float to stand. Moreover, although there is still no awareness of this, the political system will change: the current political system is inadequate to respond to the problems of the country and for this reason we need a more political one. We're not looking for betrayal and not giving lessons. On December 14, 2010 - remember - with the votes of Scilipoti: 314 votes save Berlusconi against 311. The Ministers were, among others, Gelmini, Meloni, Calderoli. Let's remember: no one has to teach. We must recognize - and this is the last thing I want to say - that this coalition must make a qualitative leap and overcome the limits we have had. Do we want to change the country, propose a social pact, have the courage to question rents of position? This is not just your task, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but it is of the whole majority. We cannot stand simply against the right, but we must have and revive our idea of a country. We are in emergency, but we must now build the idea of a country that we propose to the Italians, with a coalition that finally gives itself a political culture. Let's open this construction site right now. We will have to change all of us too; we will have to make the legislative pact, but above all give ourselves the ambitious goal of being a new reference for the country. I don't want to change! Shoppers and traitors! It is necessary to build a real vision that is able to give certainty to Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u103	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u104	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we will vote for the confidence of your Government, our Government, first of all - I want to go against the tide - for what has been done in the last 16 months. [[Applause]] ; for how, first in Europe, we faced the pandemic, but also because it restored credibility to Italy in Europe; it recognized a role. This is the government that reduced taxes on work and changed the security decrees, reaffirming human and civil rights. [[Applause]] It is the government that today has known and knows how to organize a vaccination campaign that sees us at the forefront in Europe. I start here, and not only because it is right, but also because I understand that the opposition - often used to agitate and stress only the problems - hides what we have done. But I do not understand - I really tell the senators of Italia Viva - how it is possible for a force that has shared and supported these interventions not recognize them, not claim them proudly. I am amazed that we are talking about the tones that I have heard of a government experience of which we have been protagonists, measuring together with an unprecedented health, economic and social tragedy. We did it for a year. Among other things, I would urge, in the face of the dramatic pandemic, to stop flagging and using as a club the fact that we are the country with the most dead in the world. [[Applause]] : firstly, because it is not true; secondly, because in that figure is understood the predominant weight of a single Region, Lombardy, where mortality, in relation to both the population and the contagions, is three or four times higher than that of the other Regions, a sign that those who did not know how to cure was not alone - nor above all - the Government. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we will also vote for confidence because in your words and your commitments we have found a common awareness of the need for a qualitative leap; awareness that not everything has gone well (it is not true that you said that this is the best of the governments possible); awareness that we still have too many delays and too many delays, that we need a legislative pact that allows us to give the country a perspective and to make reforms. Well, that's what PD asked for, too. We have found many of our proposals and observations in the recovery plan presented to the Chambers, which we are sure will further improve the Plan. This country did not deserve the opening of a pandemic crisis. Senator Renzi, the crisis doesn't solve one of the problems you listed. People who experience so much uncertainty and so much insecurity in the face of the pandemic and unknowns about the future do not understand; they do not understand a policy that, instead of discussing how to unite to deal with the emergencies of the crisis, discusses political crisis and distinguish. It is a problem for all, and not only for those who have opened the crisis, because to avoid turning people away from politics and institutions is the responsibility of all and it is the responsibility of all. [[Applause]] This majority was born between different and between opponents, but it was born to prevent Italy from being taken away from Europe. The defence of European location, which has allowed us to rebuild credibility in Europe, is still a decisive glue for the government coalition. I see no more coalitions in this country with the same clear and transparent European option. Certainly not the center-right, with good peace of Forza Italia. It is not enough and - you are right, Mr President - or, better, that glue is no longer enough. Our vote in favour of today is the vote of a force, of course, responsible, that is not content, however, with the governability in itself, but wants, together with you and the forces of majority, to collect the opportunity that is given to us to change this country, to overcome the atavic limits of Italy and its public administration, civil and criminal justice, which must be reformed immediately. It takes a legislature pact to do this. We need a cohesive, broad political majority in order to face the economic and social crisis that the virus - not the Government, as someone suggests - has produced, and not only in Italy but all over the world. It takes a political majority to lead the recovery fund and government action; to reduce inequalities and not to favor those who are better; to leave no one behind, no one alone (not to vaccinate first the wealthiest, as was proposed by a Lombard councilman); to defend the job; to think of a green economy; to innovate the country. We need a government that is more capable of putting measures and funding to the ground quickly. I know that a common connection and path have been built on this. It is therefore good to resume work for a legislative pact and it is right to ask from tomorrow who wants to give a contribution to join, to be there to make a contribution to the country. It is right to ask to be part of this challenge to those who do not think that anti-Europeanism and sovereignism are a path that can give our country a future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u105	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u106	Mr President, Senators, honourable members of the Government, the main mission of a political class, all the more so if the Government, is to plan the future of the next generations. The enlightened politicians are those with a long-term vision, who do not just look at polls or popular consensus. We know that words are fundamental in politics, perhaps good for taking a few votes in Parliament or outside, but then there is reality; a reality that sooner or later knocks on the door of those who forget it or try to tell it differently. Yesterday he appealed to the dignity of politics, he spoke of moving on, of a perspective to be built. They are noble expressions, declarations of good will, which would be to be appreciated if they were not just declamations. We would appreciate the idea of a breakthrough if it involved the honest recognition of the mistakes you have made and of the things you have not done and especially of the opportunities you have not exploited. After tragic months, suddenly a light had been glimpsed; in mid- 2020 Europe finally realizes that it is a people and makes available the Marshall plan of the 21st century. What does the government do instead? Nothing, absolutely nothing. [[Applause]] Italy, after a year of this Government, has two records among the great countries of the world: it is the one with the highest mortality rate by coronavirus - today there are still 603 deaths - and the one with the worst forecast of GDP growth. It has been discussed so many times in recent months whether the reasons for health or for the economy should prevail. You have solved the dilemma: you have done worse than everyone else in one field and in the other. [[Applause]] This is your government's budget. For these reasons we believe that it cannot continue, however, the collection of votes you are trying to make today in this House. In fact, while forcing Parliament to work with the bullet box, the European Commission rejected the proposed recovery fund presented by the Italian Government. His appeals to liberals and pro-Europeans are useless today when, in reality, this government has adopted only policies that are directist, charitable - let us think of the income of citizenship - [[Applause]] , justiceists and statists, when in its majority there are those who work to introduce a patrimony. Trust in the government is not a referendum on membership of the European Union or the euro. I would be concerned about the lack of Europeanism in the main majority party, the one that vetoed the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), denying the strengthening of our health system in the middle of a pandemic and which has provided a platform for anti-euro demonstrations or for the support of yellow vests. We have not forgotten that. Forza Italia, thanks to the leadership of a man of state, like President Berlusconi, has followed the line of responsibility, the one you mentioned several times today. Responsibility has meant voting on budgetary deviations. Responsibility is to have announced that we will vote the measures for the Italians, starting from the next decree ristori, hoping however that this time they will really arrive in the pockets of the Italians. [[Applause]] In this regard, we have not missed that this morning has been corrected, admitting that what the Government has done so far is largely insufficient and not comparable to the losses suffered. Responsibility is to present this project for the recovery plan [[Applause]] It was a serious, concrete work that we made available to the Italians. We have a very detailed plan, which is based on three broad guidelines: tax reform, public administration and justice. Then there is the whole part about work, young people, the South, environmental sustainability, digitalization. You see, President Conte, here are the answers Italians have been expecting for months. [[Applause]] Here are the solutions you should have given. Finally, responsibility means asking for a deep and clear discontinuity, which can be achieved not by its Government, but only by a Government of united centre-right, strong, serious, concrete, that we propose to the leadership of the country. [[Applause]] And, instead, for your part, we have heard only a list of titles and alleged successes. This government has not had a vision and sin of serious deficiencies. I'm thinking about the vaccine plan: do you know how many elderly people call the family doctors and the E.R. to know when they can be vaccinated? Since you like press conferences so much, why didn't you make one to explain where, how, when and by whom will they be vaccinated? [[Applause]] You have become aware that this House is the heart of parliamentary democracy only today, because you are afraid to go home. That's the truth. [[Applause]] At this point, the question is legitimate, President Conte: will you not be exploiting this crisis to strengthen your personal consent and political position, in an attempt to found your own party? If you have time, in reply, please give me an answer on this? The Italians are not interested in this, but when the aid arrives: they would like help for women so that they can reconcile work and family, for young people so that they do not leave our country, so that the elderly, for example, are not abandoned to themselves. We still need a tax reform that he has promised for a long time; we need to reopen the yards and instead we are still waiting for the Commissioners. Italians want to know how and when they can send their children to school, the great forgotten of his speech, and instead you were focused on coloring the Regions. [[Applause]] President Conte, the story is not written in one night, while you are being chased by the spectra of a shattered majority. Now, to disaster, she begs for help. We will always give the help to the Italians, but never to this Government. We strongly reiterate this: we need a Government able to decide, to offer the country the way out, not from this political crisis, but from the economic and health crisis that has hit Italy. [[Applause]] And then, President Conte, to be helped can only ask the Italians who suffer and who must be helped. Help you cannot ask that you are sitting in that chair to give help and not to receive it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u107	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u108	Mr President, I was struck, in the speech given this morning by the President-in-Office, by a number of expressions that really interested me because of their indifference, I would say. I'll quote a couple. I quote: "A constant and close dialogue with all institutional levels": it is enough to do a quick search on Google to see that not only Governor Zaia, Fedriga and President Thesei, but even President Bonaccini has publicly complained about the absence of intercourse with this Government, and President Bonaccini is close to this majority; why I have great esteem for him, for his political courage, as he, moreover, has great self-esteem. I quote: "There was a strong ideal boost, an investment of trust." But let's face it: what ideal push? The ideal was only to unite against Matteo Salvini; the ideal was to prevent Italians from expressing themselves with the vote. [[Applause]] So it is clear that with a purely negative ideal the investment of trust has had a negative return, like so many other investments of these times, but it is not an unexpected fact. We had warned our former allies about the risks they were taking by relying on an ambitious and unscrupulous character. The moment of truth came with the recovery fund. "Crescentem sequitur cura pecuniam" says Horace; today the "Handesblatt" says: "Wo sich das Geld mehrt, folgt die Sorge nach" (translated for the bystanders: the struggle for division began at the arrival of the bush). Many billions, no project: so headlines the leading German economic newspaper. And so not only the Italians, but also your European brothers and sisters, eure Brüder, have no faith in you, because they see that the old politics divides itself, runs to divide it ignoring who will have to return it, that is, the Italians. And therefore the distrust is motivated, because, to quote another poet, we have before us a government from the feet of balsa, inventor of a false story that lives on a lie. [[Applause]] The lie underlying the government's narrative is the idea that before the pandemic crisis everything was going well in the best possible worlds, so-called Europe, and that so-called Europe responded to this crisis in the best way, showing solidarity and reconfirming itself as the best of the worlds possible. So we must be pro-European; that is, not good, but good; not come, arrivalist; not just, judicialist; not European, pro-European: everything is ideology in here. [[Applause]] It doesn't take much to deny this scam narrative, does it? After all, the mechanism is always that: if you are so good, why terrifies you of the vote? And if everything was okay first, why is the need to change the rules now stated? Former multis, on 21 November last President Ursula von der Leyen let us know on Twitter that no rule should hinder governments' attempt to pump euros into the economy; no rule should do so. So, even today, he recognized the existence of a problem with the governance of the best of the possible worlds, the Europeanist world. It was not all right and would have been surprising, considering the hands we are in: in the hands of the same von der Leyen, who, as Minister of Labour of the Federal Republic of Germany, on 23 August 2011, joined the Finnish request to mortgage the Parthenon, a request that Finland did not bring very well. We are in the hands of those who delayed a strong united response from Europe, waiting for the pandemic to arrive at his home: this is an objective fact and the same von der Leyen apologised for it. So things weren't going well and the numbers say it: things weren't going well in the European world. I am going back to the minutes: according to the latest estimates of the Bank of Italy in 2020 GDP has fallen by 9%, reaching the level of 1998, but in this leap backwards by twenty-two years I want to draw your attention to one point. The Covid obviously made an important contribution, but not so decisive, because in 2019, pre-Covid year, GDP was at the level of fifteen years before, at the level of 2004. So, since before the crisis, the country's retreat was fifteen years old and it would have taken twenty years before the crisis to return to the level of GDP of 2007, in the wonderful European world of rules. This was the world of 2019. I give you another palpable evidence of what the Europeanism we are talking about here is and what the rules and reforms are. Between 1960 and 2011, public investment in this country grew by 1.7% average per year. By maintaining this growth, between 2012 and 2019 they would have had to reach approximately 44 billion euros miscounted; instead in 2019 the investments were of 28 billion euros. To find such a low value you have to go up until 1978. Yes, you heard well: you have to go back to the year of the seizure of Aldo Moro in order to have such a low level of public investment in Italy, but since then the GDP has doubled. How can we expect to cope with the need for infrastructure in an economy that doubled in volume with a supply of infrastructure that could perhaps be adapted to forty-three years ago? So do we want to reflect together on these figures that concern not only the voters of the League, but all the voters? This absurd result, these reckless cuts, are not children of NN, but they are children of MM, and for this reason it is particularly hateful to see the reckless and sterile dialectical acrobatics, of those who continue to tell us that the good of the whole can be achieved by doing the evil of the parts and so thinks to express a liberal thought, with the overflow of those who feel the depositary of the truth - and also says to be, among other things - being in fact the head of only an epochal failure, from which everyone today distance themselves. Any economic recovery project in the country is doomed to fail, without the abandonment or at least a profound rethink of the rules that stopped the recovery in 2012. I know that there is awareness of this in a part of the majority (I would say in a very large part) and it was good for my fellow Senator Pittella to ask President von der Leyen on 16 September that the Stability Pact be not only suspended but also rewritten. But the question that I ask myself and that we all have to ask ourselves is what happened to this request. As far as we are aware, nothing has happened, because the so-called Europe has not changed and the rhetoric of the reforms, which the Premier has reaffirmed, is here to deny the rhetoric of change. The reforms, as we have been authoritatively reminded by our usual colleague, are always those of August 2011 and are always those of Dragons' letter: cuts and taxes. It is the euthanasia not of the rentier, about which John Maynard Keynes spoke, but of the middle class entrepreneurial, about which an important Italian politician spoke a few days ago, with great ease. So, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the truth is that in Europe no one listens to you and this point is important to the country. Colleagues, to your constituents you can also sell as authoritativeness in Europe what, in fact, is only yielding, but here we are culturally equipped enough to understand that, if there were authority, Mr Pittella's question would have already had an answer, because as a European - not as a European - I can tell you that, in other European countries, the debate on the rules exists, is much ahead and that is the train that we are losing. Instead, yieldlessness makes you fragile in Europe, as lies make you fragile at home, but the root of evil is always the same, that is, the misalignment of Parliament from the country and the misalignment of representatives from the representatives. This political fact is very serious, but obviously it does not disturb those who had as their programme the abolition of representative democracy, selling the easy illusion that, from their home sofa, you could command the world with a click, and it does not disturb, of course, even those who have the certainty of being able to govern regardless of consent, thanks to the shores that, for now, find in the Italian and above all European apparatuses. So, is everything okay? Evidently not and you confess it yourself. I've heard that the country deserves a cohesive government, but how can a government supported by a bunch of irrational and minority drives be cohesive? You speak of vision, but what unites you is the survival instinct. [[Applause]] More than a scent of hope, I smell fear. What's your life doughnut's name? Italy until 23 (and then Germany, as one of you, particularly witty, added)? To this chain of lies, such as the ideal thrust, the best of the worlds possible and the vision, on behalf of the majority of voters we would like it to be put to an immediate end, but of course it is not up to us, but to the numbers. I should therefore like to conclude, Mr President, by congratulating this majority on their excellent work. You continue to work to give us, with your failures, an ever-increasing consensus. We thank you and will continue to work to channel this consensus into a real project of change. And believe me, it will be enough. Long live Italy, live democracy! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u109	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u110	Mr President, why are we here? Article 1 of the Constitution tells us: sovereignty belongs to the people, let us remember. We are here to be the people, citizens who lend their hearts and heads to serve the people. A people made up of citizens and citizens who have lived for years in a condition of compression of their spending capacity, hit by a system in which, for too many years, politics abdicated in the face of the logic of the invisible hand that Smith spoke of. Too bad the perfect market doesn't exist. And it is for the enslavement to that now outdated conception that fails his theorem. It fails because it does not take into account man's desires and sufferings; a concept that, rather than utopian, is dystopic, since it provided for the perfect mobility of what Sanders calls the working class. Men and women are not machines or numbers; they are the profound essence of our action and responsibility. It's us when we go to the market, it's us when we're out of this building, it's us when we run into the pain and joy of our existence. How much pain there is outside, but also how much love. Here, we must feel in our veins flowing that pain and love to understand what we must do, starting from the respect and love of one another, as the Gospel of Mark reminds us, and for that love that allows us to be at the service of the people. It is on this concept that we can and must evolve. [[Applause]] We must feel that pain flowing, that dismay that citizens feel in order to bring the sense of brotherhood back to the centre of action. The historical phase that we are experiencing leads to accentuating the hatred, the opposition, daughter of that turbo-liberal logic that has dominated not only the economy, but the very life of people. How can a people who suffer be happy? Don't you feel the pain, the pain of the people? And we are here to talk about a problem of stability, which is intertwined and born of ego-ism, indeed of egotism that, as the Treccani says, is that psychological attitude that consists in the worship of self and in the narcissistic and refined satisfaction of one's own person and of one's own qualities [[Applause]] ; that ego that so much ago and so much disappeared, that destroyer ego that does nothing but exalt the meaning from vanity, definitely my favorite sin, as an old movie said. It is upon that vanity that the unshakable certainty of one's vanity is founded. But, then, hold on to the acorns and leave our wings: we are beyond that vanity; we feel on our shoulders the weight of that great mass of people who fight with their daily labor and have drifted away from the desire to fly like a seagull. How not to remember the effort of Michele, a friend of mine who was an engineer in the fire of the Covid, one of the many VAT matches that fights daily with the slowing down of orders, with the slowing down of the chain of payments, like many of those free professionals who face the increase of insecurity for the livelihood of their families. Or like Antonio, fantastic jazz guitarist who, like so many workers of the live show - from set designers to performers - can no longer work. Or as my cousin Franco, he was also a freelance engineer, who died of Covid just a week ago. [[Applause]] It is in honour of all these people and all those who have difficulties that we must all remember what the role of a Member of Parliament is. I have already said: in order to serve the people we must feel the people, interpret them and have the courage to implement and continue the action that is being carried out. [[Applause.]] It is an act of love that is done when you feel like citizens in institutions that will return to their lives, to their daily work, once the mandate has been completed. It is a cycle, a chain, a circle, whose starting point is equal to the point of arrival. It's nature that makes us realize what a circular system is. Just think about the glucose cycle. The sun, the engine of life, when the green of spring explodes and covers the earth with quiver, power and vital energy; when a leaf appears against you and you see its structure, the branches inside and you know that those tunnels connect the air to the earth. Leaves that cause the air to be enriched with what at the beginning of the story was a poison, oxygen. There, on the surface of the leaf, is recreated a microcosm of effects and magic, a world dominated by union, interaction, transformation of simple elements, hydrogen to oxygen, nitrogen to potassium. A series of elements that rotate, dancing around their mentor, carbon. There, on the surface of the leaf, love is born. When carbon dioxide enters the green and, dancing under the rays of the sun, drunk of its heat, divides, leaving the oxygen free to fly and the carbon free to gather, together with the others invited to the feast, to define a wonderful necklace: glucose, sweet nectar that flows to the fruit and from here enters the mouth of a child, enters his blood and goes to feed that part that, more than any other, needs it, that part from which thought is born, from which the question and the answer comes. That nervous cell that produces love and pain, thought and memory. In that cell, carbon still separates from the old dance buddies and, through blood, reaches the hormones, where it finds the two old friends, including oxygen and, recombining with them, returns free to fly in the air. And a new ride starts, entering the wings of a seagull, in the legs of a cricket, in the blood of a earthworm, in the claws a lion: life, life. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is for that life, for that love that is perpetuated between oxygen and carbon, that all people of good will want you to move forward. Love requires courage and, as the Athenian historian Tucidide, the father of polis, surely the most courageous are those who have the clearest vision of what awaits them, as well as of glory as of danger. And yet they face it and don't run away, I add. So head-on, President Conte. The Movimento 5 Stars is with her. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u111	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris and Unterberger, and No 2 by Senators Ciriani, Bernini, Romeo and Romani. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Conte, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u112	Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, I will try to respond to a debate that has been very rich in speeches, ideas, even critical notations, as it is legitimate. I won't be organic. I will only touch on some of the topics discussed, but I will try to enrich also the issues I had already addressed in the introductory communications. A theme that has been touched upon, if I am not mistaken by Senator Drago, is that of demographic decline. This is a very serious problem. I call on everyone to consider that we are going through a very serious demographic decline, one of the toughest in recent years. A few years ago, the same thing happened in Germany. They started working on it in a systematic way, with organic interventions. We have to, too. It is very worrying because, in perspective, if we do not act now, in time, we risk compromising the future and future well-being of our children. Structural and structured economic measures are needed. We really need to invest in the future. And here is a question that is often raised rhetorically: of course, we cannot do so by creating a crisis of government or by trying to bring down a government. From next July - and this is a concrete and structural measure - the reform of the monthly single allowance, which I have already mentioned, will begin. For each dependent child, up to the 21st year of age, we will have a single check involving more than 12.5 million children and young people. This measure is intended to alleviate the economic pressure on families, especially the most numerous ones, but also the burden of care which is usually and usually borne by women. I would like to say and stress that this was a project cultivated by Minister Bonetti, of Italy Viva, together with the Government. Parliament is also examining the Family Act, which aims to strengthen family support policies, including through the reform of parental leave, with their extension to all professional categories and the introduction of compulsory and structural paternity leave. In particular, as far as parental leave is concerned, the Government has already intervened, as you know, with the budget law 2021, with the extension and extension of compulsory paternity leave from seven to ten days. The theme of the school, which is dear to all of us, has also been touched on. We must work to ensure that the school remains central to the agenda, not of the government, but of the entire country. We have created 40,000 more classrooms with the summer work of school construction and this is not only due to the Government, but to a great synergy, which I alluded to this morning when I reasoned about the loyal collaboration with all the institutions, even local ones. This was a great effort made by the mayors, the Presidents of the Region and all the authorities, even territorial ones. In addition, over the past year we have mobilized 10 billion euros more in favor of the school, filing the season of the cuts that we had inherited. We have also foreseen extensive interventions. In the updated version of the recovery plan you will find an entire chapter dedicated to the education chain. To date - let us stress this - more than 5 million first-cycle students have been in school during the school year and second-degree secondary school pupils are now returning to school. The epidemiological curve does not mention improving and worries us, but we will try to continue to do everything. The school belongs to everyone. [[Applause]] We will try to continue our efforts to ensure, as far as possible, a didactic presence because that is the objective. We know that for students it is important that there are learning methods based on direct personal interaction with teachers and their peers. I have also been urged to reflect on the recruitment plan. We have provided for the recruitment of 25,000 additional support teachers, by adopting a specific standard for teachers who are already specialized. We have also launched competitions for nearly 80,000 teachers, fulfilling the needs of stability of precarious people with the aspiration of half a million graduates to compete to teach in schools. The minister responsible has introduced some innovations, including the so-called fast call of the additional band, which has allowed to assume many previous winners of qualifying competitions still present in the rankings. Without this measure this would not have been possible. The school requires a continuous effort and we will continue to work. Many comments have been made about our decline in GDP, macroeconomic data and also the consistency of the measures for refreshment. It does not correspond at all to the fact that Italy is the country with the strongest fall in GDP. The data is clear, it's data. [[Applause]] Moreover, when we examine them, we must always take into account that Italy has unfortunately been particularly disadvantaged compared to other European countries and the Western world, because we had the explosion of the first wave of the pandemic that other countries have suffered later. Well, although Italy was first hit by the pandemic, particularly violent and sudden, in the first three quarters of 2020 the trend decline in GDP was the same as in France (less 9.5%), lower than in Spain (less 11.5%) and the United Kingdom (less 11.1%); then the rebound we recorded in the third quarter, thanks also to the measures of support for the economy, was among the highest in Europe, of 15.9%. Despite the impact of the second wave, the latest data prompt us to confirm the forecast for 2020 of a decrease of 9%, significantly lower than expected during the summer by the main international institutes and again less than expected for the other European countries. Even more destitute of foundation appears the claim that Italy would have provided less refreshment than other countries. During 2020, we implemented measures to support families, businesses and workers. I am not saying that it has been enough, because we are aware of the suffering of so many families and of so many citizens who look at us; I am simply saying that in 2020 we have implemented measures to support families, businesses and workers that are worth about 6,6% of GDP, to which we add 300 billion credits that are subject to a moratorium and 150 billion guaranteed loans. They are cold figures, which do not solve the suffering of those who are watching us at the moment, but they are one of the most massive interventions in Europe, just like the one put in place by Germany. [[Applause]] It is precisely thanks to this protection network that GDP has fallen less than expected and this has partly offset the increase in the deficit, which will be about 2.5 percentage points of GDP below the sum of the cyclical deficit and the interventions carried out. Unfortunately, while with the Revenue Agency we have experienced, thanks also to the data of e-invoicing and the efficiency of the system that is in use to the Agency, a rapid delivery, we know that we have had so many delays and limitations regarding the delivery of the cash integration. In that case, too, there have been accelerations compared to the past: disbursements that took place in five years took place in a few months. However, it is clear to the citizens that we have to say this and this has been a real cause for dismay for us too; we have tried to remedy it in every way, but when we inherit such a complex system we cannot change it within a few weeks or a few months. However, Parliament will now be responsible for the decree-laws and I understand that tomorrow there will be the opportunity in this House to express itself on the new full-bodied request for deviation and let us also remember that your attention will also be given to the question of the need for fair play for those who have been sacrificed by the criteria that have allowed the rapid delivery of the restoratives. The issue of justice has been touched on, on which we clearly expect structural reform; we know that it has long been one of the recommendations that the European Commission has also made to Italy. Meanwhile, a massive ordinary recruitment plan has been launched for more than 16,000 units between 2018 and 2023 and an increase in the organic endowment of the magistrates of 600 units has been planned. Again, in the recovery plan you will find an appropriation of EUR 2.3 billion to be allocated in particular to various plans to speed up our justice, but above all to dispose of the backward. The Italian magistrates, if we look at the tables of comparison, are good; we have to tell us. They have a productivity average among the best in Europe, but the problem is the ballast of the backward. Therefore, through the recovery plan, 8,000 fixed-term contracts, including renewables, are planned for the office staff for the trial and a thousand magistrates aggregated with renewable contracts. In addition, up to 4,200 operators will be hired under a single-cycle contract, including architects, engineers, statisticians and computer scientists, professional figures who serve to administer justice in an efficient and modern way. [[Applause]] They are proposals and projects that you can discuss and also improve, if you feel, because they are in the recovery plan. I respond to the League's leading senator, Romeo, who asked what happened to the bill on justice. I inform you that since the beginning of 2019 the bill delegates on civil justice and since 2018 the bill delegates on the reform of the civil code are at the Senate Justice Commission. Ask the President of the Commission, who belongs to his party. We are all trying to speed up the examination of these projects that the country is waiting for. These days we talk a lot about coronavirus, but there is a virus maybe worse than Covid, we must never forget it. It's the Mafia virus. The defence of legality constitutes an ontological dimension of this Government; it is in our DNA. [[Applause]] The conflict of the Mafia and the defence of legality are not a general concern for us, but a deliberate strategy of action. I want to reassure all citizens: this will always be the case as long as this Government is in office. I take this opportunity to remind you that today, January 19, is the day of the birth of a great character who did not want to be a hero and, even, had to declare that he happened to have something to do with the mob. Paolo Borsellino was born eighty-one years ago. [[Applause.]] [[The Assembly stands]] Allow me to add to your memory one of his words that I have always particularly liked: The fight against the Mafia must be first and foremost a cultural movement that gets used to the beauty of the fresh scent of freedom that opposes the smell of moral compromise, indifference, contiguity and therefore complicity. You've touched many people on the issue of deaths. I am telling the truth: when I talk about it - it has often happened to me to do so in public - it is a subject on which I am very cautious because it regrets us all, saddens us, grieves us and on this we all agree. We can never degrade this issue to a sad numerical accounting. Every day - as you imagine - I follow the bulletin and immediately I run to see how the epidemiological curve goes; the number of deaths, always loses to so many people who leave. Among other things, for a large part, the average death rate is above all the age threshold above eighty years; as I have already said, it is those who, after World War II, have worked to make Italy great and to get it into the G7. [[Applause]] They are the ones who built the economic miracle; they are our parents, our grandparents. Why such a high number? First of all, here too, we must remember that we were the first in Europe and in the Western world to be affected by the virus and this certainly had a huge weight in the first phase. Be the first... [[Comments]] Can I ask you to be quiet about this? Then, after changing the subject, come back to talk. Being the first to address this issue, without having a manual, without yet having the science that had formed a clear opinion, without having acquired experimental data, is something that has obviously been devastating for us and that has had a devastating impact. I also remember - do you remember? - that we were without masks and breathers; we found that in our country they almost did not produce them and we had to search around the world, with so many difficulties, all these equipment. I remember that the swabs we make today are not at all comparable, by number, with those we did during the first phase, to a much lower extent. And we know today how much this data, these tests, these controls are critical to diagnose positive people. I still remember that Italy is characterized by having one of the oldest populations in the world, even after Japan. And we also have a population - careful - that lives, as scientists and geriatrics say, very long, but does not age well at all; it ages in fact with many morbidity, if we look at statistical and comparative data. Recently, an illustrious infectivologist from the Sacco hospital in Milan, Professor Galli, said that if we take the data of the period between September and January, in Italy we have about 2% of lethality among the confirmed cases, exactly in line with the data of Germany. So if we want to reduce all this to a statistical fact, let's also try to take the data and let the experts guide us. I remember that Germany unfortunately - we salute the German people and all the other peoples who are suffering [[Applause]] - in recent weeks it has exceeded the thousand deaths a day; despite the strict measures imposed since the beginning of November, it has caused a worrying rise in deaths in recent times. Even in January, in absolute numbers, it is recording almost twice as much as Italy's deaths. I quote Germany because it is considered to be one of the most virtuous countries in the European Union, because it has a very organized hospital structure and has an impressive number of availability for particularly intensive care hospitals. I say this to make it clear that Covid is also bringing countries that are more structured on their knees, that have invested much more in health care - let's say - and that therefore they had to be more resilient. However - I repeat - the accounting of the dead is a very delicate issue; let us deal with it outside the political issue, because we risk touching a very sad topic and therefore the controversy is very unhonorable. Senator Renzi of Italy Viva made an intervention in which he reconstructed, from his point of view, the reasons for our being together today, to be here to discuss the trust in the Government. But I want to say one thing: it does not seem to me that when we dealt with specific issues there was no solution. First of all, if we talk about the recovery plan, which was much discussed and was one of the controversial topics, we remember that it was not born in some dark cellar of Palazzo Chigi. The recovery plan has been developed in bilateral meetings with all the Ministers, including with the Ministers of Italy Viva. In the end, the draft, which you wanted to destroy even medialy, was the result of a first bilateral confrontation and acquisitions with all the Ministers. When the Council of Ministers began on 7 December, I - in agreement with all the Ministers - presented this draft by saying: we will discuss it for as long as necessary, with all the arrangements we want; Let's face it. Obviously we needed a confrontation, a collegial moment and I was very clear: the bilateral meetings had not solved a serious problem, that of making strategic choices, of pulling out the politics, which chooses, identifies the solutions, gives a vision. This can only be the result of a collegial confrontation, but the collegial confrontation can also be done with calm and serene tones, with loyal collaboration. The final effect of that initiative was to block the recovery plan for forty days. We could have been around a table and the availability was there at once; we could have met again and in twenty days - ten, but perhaps too much - we would have given Parliament the updated version much earlier. Updated version that has been improved thanks to your contribution, but also - if you will allow me - thanks to the contribution of the other three majority forces. [[Applause]] Because most of them are discussed together and no one can claim the truth, the best and most profitable solutions in the interest of the country. You also considered that the proposal presented was not acceptable and you considered it indecent; what you want, but who said it could not be discussed? But when has it never been discussed? Tell me once something has been imposed on you or other major forces. The result is that we now have to hurry, because, in any case, a monitoring structure, a tool to speed up the reform path and make these investments and these works must be done and it is urgent; Europe also asks us to do so, as we have explained. You can argue about anything. When you have chosen the path of dialogue and confrontation - and you know it -, for example with the family act and the many political initiatives that have been absolutely qualifying for you, you have found in particular the undersigned, in addition to the other political forces, to defend you. I have often defended your reasons also against different opinions of other political forces. You never found closed doors. At some point, however, you have started to choose a different path, which is not that of loyal cooperation. Let's also say in front of the country: you have chosen the path of aggression and media attacks; you have started talking outside and no longer within the institutions. It's your choice. [[Applause]] , but we respect it - allow us - can we say that maybe it is not the best choice in the interest of the country? Can we say that perhaps this situation does not mean that we have to invest in the future, as you repeat? Again, the question of the ESM - as you well know - is divisive. The ESM can be approved in Parliament and the majority forces on this do not agree. We also add that, in order to allocate additional resources for health (and we have allocated a lot of them and added others to the recovery plan in relation to the already substantial resources allocated in the decree-laws of 2020 and the budget law for 2021), we should increase the deficit and therefore the public debt. This ignores the possibility of using the ESM and, in any case, if you will allow me, it is really contradictory, once you have contributed to the improvement of the recovery fund, to decide not to accept it because there is no ESM. [[Applause]] I would like to clarify - because there has been some intervention on this - a point which concerns precisely the perspective of the political project that I have presented together with the majority forces that have remained to cooperate in a loyal way. I understand the mistrust that has been raised; it is a genuine distrust, which is honorable to those who raised it. I think, for example, of Senator Quagliariello. You, Senator, objected to my invitation to the willing, individual parliamentarians, but also to the representatives of noble traditions, which are in any case in a clear design perimeter, as we have said (European vocation, choice for sustainable development, green and digital transition, modernisation of the country and commitment to making public administration and justice more efficient). You, Senator Quagliariello, said that we cannot think of making this proposal with a logic of annexation; annexation is a concept that reminds me of the dark times of the twentieth century. No, look: it is a frank invitation, made in a transparent way, open to the country. We all have to keep our heads up. The seriousness of the situation is such that we cannot afford to conduct matches in an opaque way. This open, frank and transparent invitation is not only addressed to them. Of course there is a problem of majority numbers; we are in democracy and if the numbers are not there this government goes home, it does not go on. [[Applause. Comments]] We have asked you to join a project based on clear, valuable choices, based on a clear European and Euro-Atlantic position, aimed at some fundamental objectives that we have already declined. Of course, it is a project that already has a well defined perimeter: it is based on a solid dialogue, experienced already during this experience of Government, between at least three forces of majority. However, on the other hand, it is a project well open to those who want to improve it, to those who want to make a contribution of ideas, planning, genuine and loyal commitment; it is a project open to those who want to bring new energies and want to define with us - I said - a pact at the end of the legislature. There is every way to work transparently, so that we can give citizens an account of what we are doing. It's a late parliamentary pact we've already been working on and we'll continue to work on if you give us confidence. Soon after, of course, we will consider a topic we were already discussing: how to strengthen the government team. [[Comments.]] On this I would like to make a clarification, because I am still reproached for an answer given to the twentieth interview, in which I was asked about the reshuffle and the willingness to change ministers; I reported, with a hyperbola, a figure of classical rhetoric, that ministers, including those of Italy Viva, are the best in the world. I was reprimanded for that expression. Attention, however, I am the President of the Council, the captain of a team, who always has a duty to defend his own ministers, among other things from completely instrumental attacks. However, I do not want to quote my opinion, but an opinion that I believe no one is questioning today because it is not part of the perimeter of the majority, at least so I understand. Senator Nencini, who is also an intellectual end, wrote and said clearly today to be careful because when we make these evaluations, we also consider that there are no terms of comparison or comparison. No other minister has gone through such a severe and recessive phase, such an engaging emergency in republican history. Then the opinions on the assessments of the individual, of the ministers present here, are open, of course. But bear in mind that the commitment has been remarkable, there has been no saving of a shred of physical and intellectual energies. [[Applause]] In conclusion, you always talk about armchairs; when I hear this word, I think - and I also say this to the citizens who listen to us - that I am not ashamed to say that we are sitting in these armchairs. In my opinion, it is not important to say that you are not interested in the chair, but are interested in sitting with discipline and honor. [[Applause]] Mr President, I put the question of confidence in the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris and Unterberger. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u113	The Presidency notes that the Government has put the question of trust in motion for resolution No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u116	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr Conte, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, in politics, as in life, there are the right moments and the wrong moments, and this crisis is definitely out of place because it is in deep contrast to the spirit of the time we are living. In recent years, in other advanced democracies, the majority forces that have taken away the support of the government are counting on the fingers of one hand. In Spain it happened to the Government Rajoy, involved in a bad story of bribes and parallel accounts of the People's Party. It happened to Theresa May, for the failure to agree on Brexit. And it happens in these days in Israel, always because of events related to corruption, fraud and abuse of power, Since then the Covid burst, the attitude that went for the greater was that of responsibility. Rui Rio, leader of the Portuguese opposition, said this in these words: "The threat that we must fight demands unity, responsibility and a sense of solidarity. At this moment the Government is not the expression of an opposing party, but the leadership of an entire nation that we all have the duty to help. This is the spirit that hangs in Europe and in the world. Then, of course, it is true: there are countries where the political crisis has been added to the health crisis: besides Israel and the Netherlands, it is Poland, Brazil, Peru, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon and Nepal. Italy has been added to this company. There will be reasons of extraordinary gravity, one might think, a pity that 70 percent of Italians say they did not understand these reasons. It has been years since there was such an effective anti-politics commercial for all those who claim that politics is far from the real problems of people and that politicians are only interested in their own gain. And if this crisis is not understandable to Italian citizens, imagine yourself in that Europe that has made an investment of confidence in Italy with the largest package of aid since the Marshall plan. It is not understandable especially from Germany, where Chancellor Merkel and President von der Leyen have spent on aid to Italy through the principle that no one is guilty of the pandemic crisis and that those most affected must be supported. With this political crisis, there is a heavy shadow over the new European pact. Instead of dealing with the recovery fund, vaccinations and businesses and families, politics takes care of itself [[Applause]] In other words, the old Italy that has known 66 governments against the 19 of Germany since the Second World War and we just have to be happy that the new president of the CDU is Armin Laschet, who will continue the politics of Merkel. If Friedrich Merz had won the right wing of the party, another music would have played for Europe, that of financial rigour, to which Italian politics, with this crisis, still gives an excellent argument. President Conte, these are all the reasons why we appreciated your repeated reference to European values and appreciated the passage on the protection and value of linguistic minorities and special autonomy. True, we are different, we speak another language, but our diversity must be an enrichment for Italy and not a threat to Italian culture, as some nationalists continue to think. [[Applause]] Yesterday's whistles in the House are proof that unfortunately there are not so few. As you well know, we have criticized the government in the past. Just go and listen again to the speeches of Senators Casini, Steger and Laniece, to see how much we have called for greater effectiveness on recovery or the invitation not to make the ESM an ideological totem, but this always in the awareness that all the governments that have faced the pandemic are managing a dramatic situation and with the certainty that on your part you have never failed the confrontation, even when there have been strong differences between us. I am thinking of the clash that we had on the start of phase 2 last May, or that of a few weeks ago on the movements between small municipalities, or the last appeal of the law of the Valle d'Aosta, but I am thinking above all of the moments when, through a sincere confrontation, we arrived at satisfactory solutions: the agreement on the lack of tax revenues in the autonomous regions and provinces, the norm on doctors and those on our banking system, the A22 and last, but not least, the priority in the next decree ristori to the mountain enterprises, as announced by Minister Boccia. It is by virtue of all these considerations that we believe that this is not the moment of the horse's moves, but of responsibility and construction, together, as you said, with the European forces sitting in this House, to keep outside the door those who think and say that today's Europe is like Nazi Germany when it invaded Poland. I therefore reiterate our Group's confidence in this Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u119	BELLANOVA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, the question that resonates several times is always the same: can one be in the middle of a pandemic and a dramatic situation, such as the one that the country is experiencing, open up a crisis of government? Legitimate question, we are aware of it, but misleading. The real one, which his whole speech eludes, is radically different and questions the very foundations of democracy in our country: can a government, in front of a pandemic that does not hint to retrocede, to a dramatic situation such as the one we are experiencing and as far as possible facing, make the emergency its only reason for existence, even the only motivation of its existence? It cannot only be the need to deal with the emergency - this House will agree - that a government should stand up; it must be the choices, the acts, the reforms, the measures. It must be a vision of the future and of a new departure to say whether or not this Government can lead the country, allowing it to overcome the difficulties, to reform the many structures that have given signs of great weakness, to start the economic and social recovery it deserves. Resilience is an empty word if all this is missing and all this in his intervention is desolately lacking. Could a government, in the management of the most important amount of resources on which our country will rely in the near future, dismiss itself, its ministers, the regions, the public administration and the Parliament, to entrust everything to a group of managers and technicians chosen is not known by what criterion? It could do so, in the absolute absence of an explicit perspective, of a modern and progressive vision of our society and of our economy, without a real intercourse with Parliament, with the political forces, as well as with the social forces. We have taken note of your partial rethinking, Mr President, but we have also recorded the attempts that you have been trying to surreptitiously convey the formula so dear to you of a opaque task force, improperly called to guarantee the governance process. Having brought back in the sphere of constitutional and institutional correctness the management of recovery, abandoning the idea of opaque technical solutions, is a step forward that we vindicate to our action. [[Applause]] However, we still ignore the model of governance that is intended to be outlined and we believe that Parliament has every right to know it, not by its granting, but by constitutional law. The produced vulnus remains, the continuous attempts remain to bypass the problems and marginalize those who have placed them in the majority and continue to place them. It is unforgivable the time lost in this way when the country needed, like the other European nations, to run. It is the true point of confidence, not the more or less credible enlargement to variable, improvised and collectible majorities, to an incomprehensible political mestizo, bearer not of new governance, but only of unnamed exchanges. This is not the arm of iron between Italy Viva, Matteo Renzi and President Conte; it is the test to decide whether respect for the Constitution prevails and the public interest or the improvisation of tactics and technicalisms, all to be demonstrated in their effectiveness and institutional correctness; whether politics prevails, the vision of the future and the ability to change or the interest of part, the immobilism, the negotiation under the table in favour of few and against the interest of many. The extraordinary pandemic emergency lies in a country that has for more than twenty years had unsatisfactory growth rates, serious unemployment rates, severe competitiveness losses, debt increases more than worrying; a Mezzogiorno that does not find adequate answers in this recovery. [[Applause]] A weak position on the European scenario and very fragile on the international one. Mr President, we are quite frankly saying this in this House: the position you have taken on Capitol Hill has been weak, in an embarrassing way. [[Applause]] , so much so as to make us think of ill-kept backwardness in condemning those who, in recent years, have indisputably guided that great democracy. The difficulties of the country, centuplicated by the emergency, are before our eyes, daily. In recent days the Bank of Italy has also certified it: we have known for months that the end of the blockade of dismissals could coincide with a social worsening of terrible dimensions. The measures adopted so far do not open up either to the future or to relaunch, but rather seem to confirm the immobilism denounced by us, as by the most acute observers. This you know, we have told you several times and delivered it to you at the many night meetings of majority, as you know perfectly well that it was we who, as reformists, put questions on worrying issues, such as the serious decline in women's work, also due to the lack of strategy useful for the reopening of schools, the urgency of active policies or concrete support for new poverty. You know that this has been one of the challenges we have been working on, calling for substantial resources for the Food Emergency Fund. We have repeatedly said that it would not have been the continuous use of the bonus, nor the decontribution for women and the Mezzogiorno the economic lever sufficient to produce the necessary employment opportunities and to get the country out of the dykes and the immobilism, to which they condemn economic policies exclusively passive. If we don't unlock the yards, we don't start jobs again. It is unforgivable the delay of months, with which, until now, the appointment of commissioners has been expected: so clever we are indignant. Mr President, I would have preferred to have been tedious, dealing with a serious issue like that of work, rather than registering a vague speech. The social partners have called for the extension of the Social Security Fund for Covid and the blocking of redundancies, but we all know that continuing to extend will not take us away from the risk that the end of the blockade will lead to the estimated loss of more than 1.5 million jobs. Without a reform of shock absorbers in a universalist sense, without a training plan, without relocation there is no hope for new policies. I should not be the one to remind you of the hundreds of open disputes, which are likely to multiply, nor the most exiled thread to which the fate of thousands of workers and workers has hung, from Ilva, to Alitalia, to Whirlpool, to the smallest crisis table. It is difficult to think that a policy made exclusively of bonuses and referrals will give useful, worthy and profitable answers. Without a new industrial policy that chooses the sectors, industries and sectors on which to focus, there is no incentive or bonus that will give lasting answers to those workers and those families. It is true that in the productive fabric and in the world of work there are enormous fears about the future. The alarm is realistic about the political and financial powers, who think they can take advantage of this moment to buy Italy and colonize our companies, as well as that on the pervasiveness of organized crime, but without a real and concrete foreign and commercial policy, in coherence with Europe, we will never be able to hope to compete and we will be destined to succumb in the world competition. Why, then, even more so in the face of such enormous risks, do we continue to navigate on sight? Nothing in his report, despite the far too casual use of the term 'political', reduced to adjective, allows us to grasp significant signals of the change of pace desired by everyone. Isn't it necessary anymore? Or does it coincide with the enlargement of the majority, which is useful in breaking out the only truly critical voice, with which you measured yourself until yesterday? Why not pick up the urgency, which has led us for months to ask for a public discussion on the recovery plan and a programmatic verification, for a legislative pact? Why hesitate to discuss good debt? Why does the ESM still allow ideological prejudice to prevail, rather than a close analysis of the relationship between costs and benefits, the only one that should make sense in the face of the health emergency that surrounds the country? It's not just the Covid the health emergency in this country. The point is here, not in the caricature customization of a duel, but in the confrontation between a country that cannot give up the necessary reformism, that brings it back to the height of its best energies, to relaunch the European and international role, and a residual country, great sick in Europe, with the "hope" of being too big to fail. The difference between reformism, growth and welfare is here; the concrete issue of the use of what we will have until the last euro is here, and this is why we have always asked for a strategy to deal with the emergency and open the doors to the next. The pandemic worries everyone, not only those who use paternalistic tones; we are aware of the extremely worrying moment that citizens are living. The country does not need a Highlander, but an authoritative ruling class, that can look not only at how to cope with the emergency, but that can involve the healthy forces of the country in the construction of a vision, of winning strategies, of a chronoprogram that looks at the speed of today safeguarding tomorrow. Just staying at home has never been enough and it's not enough anymore. Mr President, we have explained the reasons for our resignation in the letter to you and to President Mattarella: an act of responsibility, ours, with which we hoped that at last we could find time to reflect on what we have been asking you for months. We have not asked for anything; we have not scattered mines, but we have always put forward proposals. [[Applause]] , and we have done so with dignity, discipline and honor. All we asked was to rethink the future of the country. You, Mr President, should have played your role as the most responsible politician, as a builder of common feelings; mediation is hard and complicated work, I know that, and you have not been adequate. And instead, we witness the metamorphosis of an referee who becomes a player, careless of the enormous risk to which the country exposes. He preferred to remain deaf to the reasons that determined our choice and, instead of choosing the responsibility to go ahead through a confrontation, she committed herself in person to a truffle search of the so-called leaders, not by virtue of a vision and content, but for pure survival, his. [[Applause]] Here is the reason for the choice that we will take today in the face of the demand for trust. We will not have the approval of a merely numerical solution, which betrays the vacuum of politics and condemns the country to a void of vision and perspective. Mr President, despite the non-truths of which your reply is full, I inform you - and I inform this House - that, for all these reasons, our vote is an abstention. [[Applause.]] [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u122	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Conte, this morning I listened to you, not without effort, in your long speech; I also listened to your long reply, but especially this morning, when I was following you, I was reminded of an aphorism by Oscar Wilde. [[Brusio]] Mr President, I do not speak if the President does not give me the attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u123	Please, a little silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u124	CIRIANI (FdI). President, as long as President Conte does not deserve to address the opposition benches, we do not speak. We have spoken of Parliament's respect, but I think it is lacking. RAUTI (FdI). Bravo! CIRIANI (FdI). I was saying to President Conte - although perhaps it bothers him to listen to what we say - that I was reminded of an aphorism by Oscar Wilde, who said: I love talking about nothing. It's the only argument I know everything about. Mr President, this morning he spoke for sixty-five minutes of nothing; then, in his reply, he was able to say everything and the opposite of everything, and we have the feeling that the political vacuum is the perfect dimension for his majority: empty ideas, empty choice, empty passion. [[Applause]] You are looking for a majority in the corners of the Senate by putting together people escaped from every party, ex of any kind, expelled, turnedcoat, human cases; in short, really everything. It is difficult, President Conte, to explain to those who are at home the desolation of a Senate transformed into a market. It's like this: a senate turned into a market. President Conte, you, throughout the day, have desperately tried to turn away the responsibility for this crisis from yourself. I, however, would like to say to you, in a very clear way, on the part of the Brothers of Italy, that we consider you the main responsible for this shameful crisis, caused by a political class of irresponsible, of which you are the main exponent. You, your majority and what remains of your majority. [[Applause]] This crisis, in fact, was not born yesterday. It is a crisis of power that comes from afar and is the daughter of your failures. It is a crisis that sounds like a slap in the face to the Italians who suffer: not only to those who suffer in a hospital, but to those who suffer because they have lost their jobs or because they are afraid of losing their jobs, to those who had an activity, they have had to close it and they do not know if they will be able to reopen it. It is a slap in the face to the families and students, to whom you promised the reopening of the school but who only saw the wheelchairs. President Conte, this is an inevitable crisis, a written crisis, indeed already written, because a year and a half ago, from these very benches, we had defined your Giallorossi Government as a masterpiece, a triumph of hypocrisy. You put together parties that swore to each other eternal hatred. Do You Remember? Never with the Democratic Party. Never with the Movimento 5 Stars. Never with the Bibbiano party. Never with Renzi. We were hoping, even, never with Mastella. Instead, we discovered that you handed over the keys of the new majority to Clemente Mastella, who is its director, the ideologist, the telephone player, the factotum. [[Applause]] I take Mattarella's name to the noble ideals you have summoned, President Count. I wrote them: a new majority with a strong European vocation for a new reform season. Really? Really? With Mastella? I imagine the enthusiasm of the European Chancellors for this huge European choice that the world envies us. The truth is that you are only together because of a question of power and the fear of losing the election. There are no other reasons, President Conte. You failed. We repeat to you once again that you have failed, in the management of the pandemic and in the management of the very serious economic recession. The recovery plan, which you have called a historic opportunity for this country, is four months late and we haven't seen it yet. 173 implementing decrees are missing from the budget law. Entrepreneurs do not live from announcements, but from concrete facts. The extraordinary commissioners for the great works are missing. There are no restorative decrees. There is no budgetary deviation, because we do not know if there is a majority. Do we want to talk, for example, about the Motorways case? It's been two and a half years since you announced the withdrawal of the concession, but they're still there, despite the deaths, despite the scandals, despite the arrests. Allow me, too, a brief parenthesis. President Conte, you referred a few minutes ago to the heroic figure of Paolo Borsellino. We stood up to applaud a true hero of Italy. I must remember, however, that this majority that applauds Paolo Borsellino is the same one that opened the doors of the prison to hundreds of mobsters. [[Applause]] So if Paolo Borsellino were here today, I don't know if he would applaud you and your majority. Words have a weight and meaning, especially in politics. For us words are important and they are stones. Among the many statements made by important members of your majority sitting beside you at this moment, among the many pearls we have been able to fish, there is one I want to read, word for word: The bond of mandate is sacrosanct for those who want to do politics honestly. The parties are terrified. By this method, traitors will no longer be able to sell themselves to the highest bidder. Mr President, I repeat the words: honestly, traitors, sell themselves to the highest bidder. I ask you: if you were not sitting there, but were here or at home following on television, would you have confidence in a government whose representatives are willing to trample on and betray anything to keep their chair and power? Is this the fate that awaits Italy once again, Mr Conte? [[Applause]] For us there is only one way: to return to the vote immediately, and we challenge it on this. If he thinks that everything he said is worth it, then let's do the comparison not here, but in front of the Italian citizens in free elections; a real comparison, to which you are not accustomed, because the only one he does is in Palazzo Chigi with the remote-controlled questions. Once again, we challenge you to make Italians decide who deserves to rule this country. If his supporters of the Movimento 5 Stars are really convinced that he is a champion of popularity, can they explain why he is afraid of voting? Why does he escape the vote, if he is convinced to do well and have the consent of the Italians? We have never had an answer to this question. It is possible that, in just over half an hour, he will be able to obtain a majority, whatever it may be. Perhaps you will also have the courage to celebrate the escaped danger, because you did not fall into the ravine that you yourself dug with your inefficiency and paralysis and your quarrels. Perhaps you will also have the nerve to say that this is okay, that Italy is governed by a majority that is not, hung from the vote of three senators for life who come to this House once a year and the vote and blackmail of some other senator. Is this what you imagine for Italy? Is this really what Italy deserves from you, a majority that does not exist? We, unlike you, Mr. Conte, do not think that there are governments and men for all seasons. You have humiliated Parliament and politics too much and too long with your transformation, your hypocrisy and your absolute lack of sense of state and honor. Even today, Mr Conte, shows that for you, in the end, it is only a matter of power and survival: nothing more and nothing better. On the other hand, we are convinced that politics must be responsibility, dignity and coherence: one thing is said, that is done. For these reasons, we are more than ever convinced that we do not vote for your government's trust. We believe that he would do much better to resign and put an end to this painful theater that has already been staged for too long, finally giving the word back to the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u127	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, Mr Conte, you have done very well to bring the crisis to Parliament, in the light of the sun and in front of the country and the citizens who are following us. It was the clearest and most institutionally correct choice. This is how we proceed in a parliamentary Republic and this Government - I remind all of us - is born precisely from the fact that Italy is a parliamentary democracy. [[Applause]] There could have been another way, as some might have wished, with the resignation and opening of a crisis in the dark and behind closed doors and Parliament should have only taken note of it. But no: we chose to come here, together with you, to discuss and hear the reasons of everyone, including those of those who opened the crisis. However, we demand that ours also be heard. It is not a democratic vulnus; it is proof that here in Parliament, even in the hard and difficult debate, not only is one understood (or not), but in front of all one chooses the way to take. Parliamentarianisation is not only the most transparent route, but it is also that - I say this here - which allows us to move on as quickly as possible, because this is an absolute urgency. Everyone fills their mouths with Italy and the country, but they did not deserve this crisis and they are asking us to move on and close it. [[Applause]] You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, rightly recalled (and did well, because this is the first time you have been told in these classrooms and also publicly) that we have lost a generation, that of our many grandparents and parents who have died and that with humility and sacrifice they had built Italy after the war, they had believed in it and had had the hope of the future. We are experiencing a very difficult and dramatic situation: for this reason I say that the country did not deserve a crisis like this, that we must close quickly [[Applause]] The country has a lot of problems. Like any one of us, I do not come from comfortable rooms or comfortable armchairs; in this House the Senators of Leu, like Italy Viva well knows, do not even have a presidency, so we must neither leave nor take anything [[Applause]] We are here, however, because we have believed in this coalition and this government. We believed that PD, 5 Stars and Leu could build a project for this country. Then came the pandemic. We weren't prepared, but who in the world was prepared to face a situation like this? We said that we had to try to help everyone, not to leave anyone behind: Mr Gualtieri is here, and I ask how many deviations from the budget balance we had to authorize to give help and help. You call it welfare? Go tell it to the people in the outskirts who need our help! [[Applause]] I have never made discounts to this majority and the President knows how hard I am; I have asked several times to support - and I see my colleagues here - emergency income and to give an instrument to those who do not make it. We have put all our energies into play here, because this is what we must do: support and plan the future! We cannot do this to Italy. We cannot miss a historic opportunity, that of the recovery fund: who brought him home, if not all this majority and this Government, which has given back prestige in Europe to our country? [[Applause]] You know that all our resolutions, when we were in opposition and when we were in the majority, have called for Europe to change and finally show European citizens its solidarity. Well, Europe has changed. Some time ago I concluded an explanation of vote saying that another Europe was possible: we took all our energy to make this possible and we brought home a very important result. So I wonder if you really think that we can do this to our country and stop. This should have been the week when Parliament, this House and the Commission could begin to examine the recovery plan, give directions and make proposals, as they did the first time, because I believe in Parliament. [[Applause):]] It can give a great help, because we are representatives of the citizens, we have ideas and projects and I believe that this country can be changed! I believed in this coalition and you know it: you did not mention the green one among European families, but I think that in the green transition and in the questioning of this model of development we can create jobs, because there were problems even before. We had inequalities before and this crisis increased them even more. The answer today is that the work had already changed and nothing will be the same, but obviously there is someone who wants it to be worse. The government crisis is not only born out of misunderstandings. Senator Bellanova knows that, when the recovery plan was presented to us, we posed many problems (the Minister Costa and all the other Ministers, like Minister Gualtieri, know it) and we went pointly to indicate what was wrong and how to do it. For example, we have said that incentives are not rainy, but, also with industry 4.0, if you focus on innovation and green transformation, because this is the future. [[Applause]] I do this for my son, as each of us does for the next generations. When we asked for and got results for culture, education and university and to overcome the gap that was created, but not only today, with the pandemic, we already had a very low number of graduates so we had structural problems that certainly did not create this government. Everything did not go well, as the President-in-Office admitted. There is a lot to work and also to change (my culture, compared with that of others, and my history, with those of others). We have to change together for Italy. Mr President, this House has made a ridiculous and offensive representation of the appeal you have made. Since I am an ecologist, for me the ethical expression of responsibility is sacred and I repeat it. [[Applause]] It means having at heart the future of the next generations and of creation. In this House there are other cultures different from ours, but think that great progress has been made by the Catholic world with the encyclical "Laudato si'" which has opened my heart and on which we can meet. [[Applause]] Where do cultures meet in order to change and give this country a future? Mr President, I conclude by saying clearly that everyone will then take responsibility and I also say to the Senators of Italy Viva that we wanted to change the recovery plan. In this House we still have the opportunity to make it an important instrument of change. Prove to the Italians, all together, that it is possible to make sure that finally there can be a political project, which is a vision in which politics puts in place its ideals, its strength and its sacrifices, because it does it for the country. We are here for this and we have always been here for this: we believed in the green transition; we believed in the green new deal; we believed that social and environmental justice are the key to the future of this country and the world. Let us not forget climate change. We know that the pandemic is also related to that, we have to put it in our head. I don't want to go back to the way I was before, because before, as Pope Francis says, we thought we would stay healthy in a sick world. The world was sick and then we must ensure that it is more and more healthy and invests in health, health and transformation. [[Applause]] That is why we are convinced that we are voting for you and your Government, because this is the right way to go for the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u130	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, authoritative representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I remember August 2019, a difficult bet, a danger for our country: the Vice President of the Council asked for full powers, with a complicated situation at international level, a sovereignist and populist drift dangerous, a relationship with Europe cracked and difficult at the Brexit stage, with Trump President of the United States and an international identity of Italy compromised. We made a complex choice, perhaps the most difficult at that time: we decided to confront each other between different forces and different programs, with the spirit of saving our country. It was a complicated adventure. I remember the difficult confrontation, in order to draw up the programme and reach a political agreement, together with my colleague Delrio, representing the entire Democratic Party. We put our souls and hearts in it, however, because we knew that all this was in the interest of our country. Today, after so many months have passed, I am proud of that work, that result and what this Government has done. [[Applause]] Some objectives have, of course, been achieved immediately. It has been remembered - today it seems trivial - the shift of VAT, which would have brought the Italian economy on the precipice of those who pushed in that direction. We have created relations with a different Europe; indeed, we have transformed it and we have found our home there, which looks with us to our future. This is a great result, it is a medal we have; and all those who collaborated at the time should be proud of it. After that, coexistence was not easy. The interview, the acquaintance, the confrontation and the dialogue were not simple and they also had particularly difficult moments. We knew, however, that our specific will was to protect our national community. Then the tragedy, the pandemic at the beginning of 2020, the health crisis and the complicated measures that the government has been called upon to take, even questioning what is most dear to us: individual freedoms and rights. We have done so with courage, facing an unprecedented medical emergency, without experience or knowledge. We have achieved good results in the first phase and we are now achieving it. Those who do not recognise them, I think, have a pinch of bad faith, which I believe should be underlined. [[Applause]] There we have seen the fruit of our work in Europe. We have sought help, we have opened a dialogue with our allies and we have found concrete answers, activities that have made it clear how important Europe was for Italy and how important Italy was for Europe. We have done so with loosening of the parameters on public accounts, with the ECB's activities in the purchase of government bonds, with Sure at work and with the availability of the ESM on health and investment in general. We have done this with the commitment of the President of the Council and the Ministers, who have worked and who together with Parliament have achieved - today no one has said it - what we would never have thought: an unprecedented investment, capable of giving our country and our nation a hope for the future again. [[Applause]] After that, it was inevitable that in the phase in which one begins to look to the future and to the exit from this affair there was a need for a political confrontation. The Democratic Party asked for it first and got it. I would remind you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that at our meetings at Palazzo Chigi we brought you proposals and put questions which we considered relevant not to us but to the country. We went on in a difficult confrontation; you did so with the Democratic Party and with the other government allies. Then, at some point, this debate broke down and resulted in what I consider to be a dangerous and wrong opening of crisis today, Mr President. We must have the courage to say it frankly: we who love politics must know that to do politics, to be a parliamentarians and to be a minister means to work, to sweat, to discuss, to confront and to quarrel, but always knowing that the interest of the country comes first of all. [[Applause]] Mr President, I am among those perhaps linked to concepts and values of other times. After the family, the thing I love the most is these rooms, understood not as a physical place, but as a symbol of democracy, of results, of the Risorgimento wars, of Liberation and of the Resistance. I am the one who is most dear to us and I know the importance of being here today; I know how important we are to Italian citizenship. We have big responsibilities today, Mr President. Today, as parliamentarians of the Republic, we know that we decide and that we have in hand the future of our country. [[Applause]] Today we decide whether we will continue this experience and whether we will continue to work, perhaps with criticism, but with dialogue and confrontation, to improve the recovery plan and to have a guide and control related to parliamentary activities. We do not hesitate from confrontation, but we want and blame those who renounce it and dialogue and prefer a crisis of government in the dark dangerous for Italy and for Italians. [[Applause]] Whoever pulls out is wrong. There are many people here who care about the future of the country. There are the majority forces and parliamentarians of the progressive and reformist areas, who believe in the future in the improvement that is possible through politics in the elevation of a national community and in the solution to so many problems, especially of the weakest sections of our population. The many colleagues, especially those elected in the Democratic Party's ranks, today must reflect on the future of their country. [[Applause]] and find out where it's right to go and where it's wrong not to go. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this is a difficult and difficult time. Today we are called to exercise our highest and highest role, which is to decide on the future of the country's government. I think it is important to be simple, clear, concrete and transparent. The centrality of Parliament, the debate on the crisis, the definition of the future and the improvement of the recovery plan, as well as the re-acquirement of the central role of the parliamentary classrooms, are good. Mr President, believe me, it will never be a mistake to do the right thing. Today, the Democratic Party and its 35 senators know they're doing the right thing. [[Applause]] Today, Mr President, we renew our trust in you and your Government and do so for what you have told us in this House today, but above all for what you will have to do and we will have to do together in the next few days and months and until the end of the parliamentary term. It is very simple: to have at heart the future of our country and Italy all and to give a credible, authoritative and wide-ranging Government, which dialogues and confronts with the political forces of majority and opposition and carries out a great and ambitious project for Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u133	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Vice-Ministers, Undersecretaries and fellow Members, I say this very frankly and with all due respect to the Government institution and this House: we are experiencing this debate with some embarrassment, as the country is probably experiencing. At certain times, we have the feeling of being too much in a political-marital crisis, in a sort of Roses war. [[Applause]] , in which you exchange accusations and counteraccuses, making once again the mistake of talking to yourself and yourself and not to the country and the country, which is exactly what the country expects from you. [[Applause.]] It is clear that this majority is no longer there, Mr President; it has been evident for a long time, since we told you and begged you not to nail to your frailty and weakness all the decisions necessary to carry forward a country that was suffering. We have said so many times that the policy of postponement and immobilization would only do greater damage. We have listened, as always, and if a Martian had landed on Earth today and had listened to his relationship he would have the impression of being in the garden of Eden: everything is fine, everything is fine. [[Applause]] It is not true that our GDP is falling, nor that this Government, when faced with real and serious problems in economic, health and school matters, has done what Senator Renzi, the putative father of this Government, reproached him and that we sometimes wonder where he was when these decisions were taken and when the measures we considered incomplete and sometimes harmful were voted with confidence and continuous forcing of the role of this Parliament, but above all the custody of Italian citizens. [[Applause]] Mr President, many times we have told you that there is a profound flaw in what you have told us here and in the history that you have told us today: the principle of reality is completely lacking. There is no real country in your relationship. [[Applause]] Have you heard, even today, the data on Covid-19, GDP and vaccines? These are facts, with which we all have to deal, we are responsible opposition but, even more so, you deciding government, which so often did not want to decide. We have tried several times to draw your attention, Mr President, not to the gathering of votes in Parliament, which is the activity you have devoted yourself to in recent weeks, this kind of trade in fairs. [[Applause]] and this campaign purchases that celebrated in this House, while the country was watching it, a country that was often unable to make banal and fundamental purchases for the family (excuse me the bickering of words). I remember that 8.5 million families, while you celebrate this surreal crisis, this psycho-crisis of politics, are suffering a dramatic reduction in their standard of living and every day they have to face their livelihood. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are talking about 2 million new poor people, real poor people, who were unable to stand in line at Christmas to buy gifts and did so at Caritas. [[Applause]] to get what they used to be able to get by working. Gentlemen of the government, do you hear the squares? Do you hear the noises of exhibitors, traders and artisans? We have been telling you this for six months: Mr President, when you decided only to do task-forces, general states and unnecessary comitology. [[Applause]] , you have trashed the only useful projects in the country. Let us think, for example, of the Colao plan. We have always told you that there is a world that is turning off the lights; Confcommercio's latest complaint estimates that 500,000 companies are turning off the light and lowering the screen forever. Mr President, we are talking about families, workers, suppliers and a consumer chain that is blocking itself forever. We have a moral obligation, which we have always done as an opposition: to help the country to resolve this dramatic situation, which cannot be resolved through postponement. How many times do we have to tell him? How many times have we tried to put on your table the demands of tourism operators, restaurateurs and bartenders? [[Applause]] By the way, how did you come to block the takeout from 6:00 p.m. on? [[Applause]] Let's think about how many hotels have been forced to close. And again, let's think of mountain workers and shopping malls: why are the latter closed on weekends? Shopping malls are closed while downtown shops are open. Why are those who pay always the same? [[Applause]] Why this injustice? We told you what needs to be done. We have never been an opposition of unnecessary criticism, but purposeful, and we have told you that the only thing to do is what the whole of Europe is doing: compensations immediately, not refreshments, nor payment of living expenses. We're talking about people, businesses and people who don't work because they can't, not because they don't want to, and they can't survive a crisis that's not their fault, if they're not compensated enough. It must be appropriate compensation, blessed and immediately [[Applause]] , exactly as is done in the countries of Europe where the crisis is facing in a different and much more vigorous way. You have the arrogant temptation not to listen or listen only in part. We are deeply sorry about that. Very often, if you do not know how to do things, just look out of our country what other countries that have found and have been able to elaborate and develop better solutions than yours. Why do Germany and France compensate? Yes, Minister for Economic Affairs, you keep saying no with your head, but go explain it to the people who are afraid. [[Applause]] to no longer be able to keep their business open and to no longer be able to maintain with their families historical traditions that are the pride of Made in Italy and of our country. Go explain to them why 50 million folders will start from the Revenue Agency (indications and administrative acts, shameful things that are not compatible with this period). Why does Germany compensate 75% of its turnover? I'm really upset that you keep pointing out no with your head. Minister, you have to face the reality. [[Applause]] You cannot continue to tell the story that the President of the Council comes to tell us every day. [[Applause]] I don't think you can get out of here and just shake your head to solve this country's problems. You have the duty as a government - and we have the duty and obligation as an opposition to force you to do so - to consider the problems of a dying country. You know very well what are the things to do and you know perfectly well that you have to make up for the businesses that have inevitably been closed and to which you have promised compensation: why, if you think that compensation cannot be given, you promised them before Christmas and then you didn't give them? [[Applause]] Why have you promised a late and very often given integration fund by private enterprise and entrepreneurs themselves to their employees, with profound personal sacrifices? For what reason do we receive continuous requests to bring to your attention stories of life and work, for which you almost give the impression, with a shake of the head or shoulders, of not having interest? It seems that you have to think about the maximum systems and how this Government will end, if you can put together a group of builders: but look that "builders" is not a word, it is a path. [[Applause]] We must be able to build history and politics and to explain to the Italians - especially to the most fragile and vulnerable ones and to those elderly people who are asking for help and who unfortunately have been forced to queue for influenza vaccines, not later than a month ago - if there will be a vaccination plan, where, how and when, how those countries are doing that already prepare structures where to make them, if they will work. It is necessary to explain the future of those who unfortunately not only have the problem of the Covid, but perhaps have pathologies, which they are unable to cure because they can no longer make specialist visits, nor diagnostic tests, in hospitals - alas - too full of problems Covid to give assistance and to do prevention. [[Applause]] This is a problem that will turn and turn on our country for the years to come. These are the problems, it is not possible to shake your shoulders, shake your head and pretend that they do not exist, as you are doing, that you come here to tell us a story that unfortunately no one feels like true. Why, in the face of all the good things he tells us, does the country suffer? Why doesn't the country realize all the beautiful, beautiful things you've done for Italy? You have not made the fiscal year white; you have not made the pardon for those who do not make it; you have not given true reparations; in short, you have done nothing of what was to be done at this time. [[Applause]] That is why, Mr President, Ministers and the Government, we cannot give you our trust, because we do not believe in you, nor in your consistency: it is not consistent to say that you do not want to vote in Parliament and that you do not want to turn around or the cow market and then come here and look for votes by vote, offering government posts, making a sort of offer to the public (the loneliness of the prime numbers, agriculture, the delegation to the Services; everything is coming now). It's not consistent. We do not believe in the effectiveness of his government, which we believe is very presumptuous, because, in the face of the real problems of the country, he can do nothing but shake his head. [[Applause]] We do not believe that his report and his statements show an ability to understand, but above all to respond to the deep needs of the country. For all these reasons, Mr President, we choose to be consistent and to fight our political battle, strong of our ideas and proposals, which we will share with you, because we support Italy, we run with the shirt of the color of Italy. [[Applause]] Thank you for the attention you are giving me, Lords of the Government, thank you: if I disturb, I can stop speaking; give me a minute and I will do so anyway. Excuse me, but you are here to listen, not just to talk: this is called Parliament, but we must also listen, especially when the opposition speaks. [[Applause]] We will continue our political battle, because we believe in it; we believe in the strength of our proposals, which we will continue to make available to you, but we choose to be consistent. We choose to be free from conditioning and blackmail; we choose to be free to run as a government force for the country: we choose to run, we of Forza Italia and the entire opposition, to govern the country, because - we are convinced - when people are left truly free to choose, they choose freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u136	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you President and thank you to the Italians who are following this debate, which has been surreal in some ways, because for someone in here the problem is losing the chair. For normal Italians, the problem out of here is to lose your job. [[Applause]] So I apologize on behalf of some fellow senator who made me ashamed to be a senator. Even today, Count has said that he basically has the best government in the world and those who say otherwise. The data, which are not questionable, unfortunately - and I stress unfortunately - say that we are the first in the world among the great countries for Covid's deaths and we are the last in the world for economic growth. Attorney Conte intervened a few minutes before I said it was false. Count, what I have in hand is the front page of today's Wall Street Journal on the first twelve countries in the world: the only one growing is the Republic of China, so dear to you and to us a little less [[Applause]] , and Italy is twelfth out of twelve countries in the world for economic growth. Evidently the magic of his mighty Casalino arrives everywhere, but not yet in the editorial staff of the "Wall Street Journal." That's the truth. [[Applause]] I remind myself and those who follow us that we are discussing a crisis that is all in your home, because you a year and a half ago gave birth to the Government of Europe, the environment, the green economy, young people, friendship and brotherhood, with the only glue not to send the country to the elections, because otherwise it would risk winning the center right. What a strange thing this democracy is. After a year and a half, we're point and point and you're fighting with each other. I would like to add a parenthesis: you are also arguing among yourselves about the use of European funds, which is right to remember that it is two thirds of the loans that will have to be repaid by our children by 2056. It's not your thing: it's everyone's thing. [[Applause]] It's not a kind concession if you explain to businessmen and trade unions every now and then what you're going to do about that money, since it's from all the Italians. So if there were a government that controlled the health crisis and put gasoline in the engine of economic growth, we would tell you from the outside to stop fighting and, as you're doing good things, we'd tell you to move on. But we're the last ones. To question a government that has failed on everything is not a right, but a duty of every Italian citizen. [[Applause]] Then, semantic notation: those who changed coats until recently were vulgar "poltronari"; someone before us also went to trial for an alleged sale of deputies and senators. [[Applause]] I remind those who are trying to invent neologisms that you are not looking for "builders," "wanderers" or "responsible": you are looking for accomplices to pay so as not to give up the chair. This is what's happening. [[Applause]] If you are doing everything right or if - as Count says - you will do everything right, because it seems that he arrived yesterday morning at the Government, what problem is there to ask the Italians to judge what you are doing? Are you giving refunds? Have you transformed Italian schools into the temple of modernity and security? It does not appear to me that this is the case, because, beyond the 461 million thrown away for wheelchairs, you are playing on the lives of students and teachers, who go to school risking them, because you have done nothing to enhance public transport and fix the ventilation of classes. [[Applause]] We have two different ideas: we are in democracy, yay! A premise on sovereignism: there has been, for months, this dangerous enemy hovering over Italy and Parliament. When something happens, it's the sovereigns' fault; if they take your bike, he was most likely a sovereignist. However, let us be clear about the meaning of the words. Italy is one of the founding fathers of Europe, fortunately. However, I ask: a government that puts at risk the health of its citizens, because there are no vaccines, which has delegated to Europe - while other countries have their vaccines or if they provide them on their own - is Europeanist or is it a government of incapable? [[Applause]] A government that, without moving a finger, allows Fiat to become French, with the predictable layoffs of our workers, is a European government or is it a government of fools? [[Applause]] I think it's more the second, than the first. Then, human rights lessons from those who wink at Iran and Venezuela, or put the United States and China on the same level, we just don't take them! [[Applause]] We have two different ideas: I like the Europe of De Gasperi, of the founding fathers, of the well-being and growth imagined by Pope Wojtyla. I do not like the Europe of bureaucrats, finance, austerity and pension cuts. [[Applause]] As an Italian citizen, I claim to count in Europe: is this a crime? On taxes I believe that the only way to break down tax evasion is not the obligation of electronic money, tax persecution or the Revenue Agency, but it is to lower taxes with flat tax: pay less, to pay everyone and tax peace. [[Applause]] If Europe imposes - as it writes in the regulation for the use of European funds - new sacrifices and new austerity, the patrimony on houses and current accounts and the reduction of pensions and if you say yes, you will not be Europeanists: you will be attackers against Italian workers and pensioners. [[Applause]] Wealth, to be redistributed, must be produced and private property, as far as I'm concerned, is a sacrosanct principle: if you block evictions and avoid that those who have a rented apartment take away what is due to them, at least do not charge them taxes, because you are ruining millions of Italian savers who have that as their only income. [[Applause]] You put it out of its way and tax it too: this is not Europeanism! The senator who used to talk about rights and social justice knows that, with the blockade of evictions, it does not help the poor, but the sly, and puts millions of Italian savers on the pavement. [[Applause]] This is discrimination. This is proletarian expropriation and is not really a rule of law. [[Applause]] I believe that Count has done well to fight to reach 100 and women's option and I think it would be crazy to cancel 100 and women's option and increase the age to retire in Italy at a time of economic crisis such as the current one. If Europe asks us to do so, if the health of our women and our workers is involved, it is our right to say no thanks: no jokes about the work and pensions of Italians! [[Applause]] We have a different idea about banks and it is clear that this is the case, Count, because some MP from the PD resigns to be president of some big bank. We prefer local banks that lend money to those who need it, and not those that give money to multinationals that then take their tax offices abroad. I hope that your Government - I hope it will end this evening - will not succeed in doing what two world wars have not done, that is to sell a heritage of Tuscans and Italians called Monte dei Paschi di Siena [[Applause]] , which is not owned by a party, but is the heritage of a country. On trade we have two different ideas: we, as a League and as a center-right, prefer the shops and the made in Italy; someone close to her prefers the multinationals of the click to Amazon, who sell and exploit in Italy and then go to pay taxes elsewhere, and they are not the future of our country. The great absentee of this debate has not given a single word to agriculture: there are those who say yes to Europe who proposes synthetic food produced in the laboratory, perhaps in Wuhan. We prefer the natural food and the Mediterranean diet with which our children grew up. [[Applause]] They're different points of view. On the environment it is not enough to say green. I say that because there is an environmental minister in words, but destructive in fact. Everywhere in the world waste becomes energy, heat and wealth. Thanks to his not, in Italy we go on to landfills and toxic fires [[Applause]] And that's not healthy for anyone. This is not called environmentalism: this is helping those who Borsellino fought. On the TAV, we are in favour of an Italy that grows, operates, digs and travels. Today in Brussels, the centre-right and PD voted in favour of the TAV, the 5 Stars voted against: boys, agree. I want an Italy that travels fast and safe. I don't want no hostage in Italy. [[Applause]] And for the no - I remind my colleague Renzi - we did not leave two seats, but we left seven without regrets, and I repeat without regrets. [[Applause.]] There's a lot of other files. We want an industrial power like Italy still has steel, which defends Ilva and the workers of Ilva using that steel to produce, after years of chatter, that bridge on the Strait of Messina that can connect Sicily to Calabria and the rest of Europe. [[Applause]] You prefer to leave Taranto without bonifices and without work. I'm sorry, but it won't end like this. [[Applause.]] There are so many files, Count Count, on which you decided not to decide: Motorways. We are to do the works still - I think of the Gronda di Genova - and you... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .you have earned only one family named Benetton [[Applause]] So don't talk about solidarity. [[Comments.]] I see so much nervousness; there are people here who were convinced to bring home the chair, and now you're a little less convinced, huh? [[Applause]] I'm going to conclude. I remember Count attorney helping us get legal, controlled immigration and real integration. I don't like the second version that opens the ports, gives gifts to the boatmen and - according to what we read in the newspapers - integration... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] ..the footballers of the series They don't speak Italian. [[Applause]] It is not exactly the integration that we are thinking about. A reflection and another difference we have - but it is so beautiful in democracy - concerns the family. We do not think it is a political choice. We think Mom's name is Mom and Dad's name is Dad. We are for the defense of life, always and by the way. [[Applause]] For the Italy of the future, our model are the centers of help to life, and not the abortion pills given on the street to anyone. We have a different idea of the future. [[Applause. Alive buzzing]] Mr President, it is difficult and sometimes I do not hear my voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u137	I can't hear either. Colleagues, I understand that we have been here for eleven hours. I would ask you to be patient enough to finish the debate. Senator Salvini, come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u138	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as far as the family is concerned, since the debate is topical, the Italy that we have ahead has as its model St. Patrignano and the New Horizons community, and not the free drugs at the corners of our children's schools. That must be clear. This is the idea of Italy and Europe that we have. [[Applause]] You, Count, ask us to trust you. We don't trust you, but we give it to Italian citizens. We hope that you will release the chair that you are stubbornly defending with all the necessary means. I remind the senators for life that they will legitimately vote for trust [[. (The microphone switches off automatically]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u139	Please, Senator Salvini, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u140	[[Happy Protests]] I'll give Senator Licheri the same time. Today I marked that everyone doubled the times, all of them. We are in a very important debate. I don't have the habit of taking anyone's word off, and I haven't done it with anyone in ten hours. Stop protesting and let Senator Salvini finish. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Word Democrats, censors in action. I was simply reminding the life-senators who are about to vote for the trust together with their colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars and the Count lawyer, what the leader of the Movimento 5 Stars said a short time ago about the senators for life: the senators for life never die or, at least, die a little too late. What courage you have, senators for life! What courage! What courage! [[Applause. Happy Protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u141	Senator Salvini, that doesn't seem appropriate to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u142	[[Comments]] SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Words and music by Beppe Grillo. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Salvini, you finish or I have to take your word off, and I always end everyone. However, his consideration seemed very disrespectful to the senators for life. [[Happy Protests]] If you don't stop, I have to suspend the session. Sit down and be quiet. I'll set the time. Senator Salvini, now you're finishing because you've really gone through a lot of time. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I agree with you that the words are disgusting. Therefore, the senator who will intervene after me will apologize, in the name of Grillo and the Movimento 5 Stars, for such words. I'm sure of it. One thing I appreciate about Count's surgery and I quit... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u143	Please, I have to take your word off. I'm not used to it, but I have to take your word off because you've been talking for 15 minutes. [[Comments]] He's not the only one. Should I list all those who have doubled their times this morning? I wrote it rigorously, just thinking that there would be, as always, protests; protests that are made alternately, depending on who breaks the time limit. I don't like this. Please, Senator Salvini, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u144	I'd like to end with a compliment to Count. The only passage of the intervention of the lawyer Conte that I liked is that in which he remembered a great Italian like Paolo Borsellino. I add a reflection to that of Count's lawyer: "He who is afraid dies every day, he who is not afraid dies only once." We are with Italy, so freedom is sacred and is not for sale. Long live Italy that is not afraid! Thank you and go home now! [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u147	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, Senators, Senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us try to bring down the tone of the debate. On the other hand, today nothing different has happened and again compared to the previous times. This is Salvini's fantastic world. [[Applause]] ; that world without pandemic; that world with wheels like the benches that were ordered by the principals and that were supposed to arrive from China and instead were manufactured by Italian companies [[Applause]] ; those benches that allowed social distance between pupils within school structures; those benches that allowed the application of those protocols that we all asked for and that made the school the safest place. [[Applause]] It's those benches there. I repeat that a world without a pandemic we all would have wanted and it is normal for him to speak this way because he, until a few months ago, thought that the Covid was little more than an influence. [[Applause]] In fact, he thought it was the excuse to even apply a DPCM. [[Applause. Comments]] There is no need to turn on the moods, but to worry because this debate is on live television and here we have to ask ourselves what people are understanding. People are asking us why you brought us here. We believe that that is the question that citizens are asking themselves. Who followed this long television debate, who left yesterday in the House and today arrived at the Senate, understood nothing except that Rome is today light years away from the real country. [[Applause]] I repeat: Rome is far from the real country. If there is a political class that says it wants to vote for the budget deviation of EUR 32 billion, Salvini will certainly say it takes 64; if you say it needs 64, he will say it needs 128. [[Applause]] That's the way he is, we know him, and it's not the case to get angry. If we all vote for the budgetary deviation, we obviously agree with this Government's budgetary policy. If we all vote for the ristori decree, we are obviously all in agreement with the corporate income and liquidity support programme. If we vote on the anti-Covid measures - as you have all said: we will vote on all the anti-Covid measures - we are obviously all in agreement with the political action to combat and overcome the emergency Covid that is following the government. Therefore, citizens are wondering why we have brought them into this situation. The answer is that neither do we, but no one in this House knows. [[Applause]] A few minutes ago the citizens saw the President-in-Office accuse him of having changed the majority twice in just over two years. But the one who accused him was the one who offered him the second majority by patting him on the shoulders and whispering in his ear to be serene. [[Applause]] We don't know either. He promised the Italian citizens that he would never do it again and did it again. [[Applause]] Then it is right, it is natural, indeed it is right, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you have come to Parliament to make an appeal to the senators, to the Members, to the citizens, to the country; an appeal that you have wished to address to everyone to find what you have called the high sense of politics and we five stars also add the sense of sharing the same destiny. It has not been understood here that neither the winners nor the winners will come out of this pandemic. We therefore believe that it was also ethically right that you called for the overcoming of ideological fences; you did it and you did it well, because at this moment we should understand, beyond the fantastic worlds, that we must all row in the same direction because the key word that can drag us away from the dryness of a recession that seems to have no end is stability. [[Applause]] This word from yesterday to today has been spoken very few times in the debate. The pandemic has dug deep grooves into our lives and those who claim that many things do not work tell the truth. It's true: many things don't work. We ourselves, last week, brought you not that tarocked data, but the dramatic data of the economy of France, the United Kingdom and Germany not so much to tell you that, if Athens cries, Sparta does not laugh. But we did this to tell you simply that the pandemic, the thing that does not fit into someone's head, in six months has swept away 10 million jobs in Europe and there is no difference between Italians, French, Germans and Portuguese: I am talking about 10 million jobs. But that is not the point, ladies and gentlemen. The point is that at this moment Italy is looking at us and you know what the solution is, the alternative that politics is bringing to secure our existences, our restaurants, our factories? The solution that politics is suggesting to us today is the opening of a crisis of government - this is madness - a crisis that has been considered by the whole foreign press the most unscathed, irresponsible, insane and absurd of our country's history. [[Applause]] Then, it is understandable that the pandemic has sown a sense of loss, but politics cannot fall into the confusion, cynicism, blackmail, self-centeredness, the whim of this or that other leader. Mr President, we in the Movimento 5 Stars in two and a half years guarantee that we have seen so many, perhaps too many, whims. [[Applause]] But there's a way to get the whims of this or that other leader through. The way you have all heard today in this House is that we must go to the lessons for the good of the Italians; we must open a crisis of government in the interests of the Italians. But on whose behalf are you speaking? Who are you talking to? Who is Italian or Italian who wants the crisis because it seems to be something made for their own good? Who is the merchant who saw his turnover dropped, the craftsman who saw his shop closed, the nurse who is working 24 hours a day in the hospital who is currently dreaming of an election campaign? But what people are you talking to? [[Applause]] Who are you talking to? What people do you hang out with? Try to get out of this House. Don't bar the windows to reality. Forget about the wheelchair world. Come down and breathe with us the pain that the citizens are experiencing right now; the blood and wounds that we are not able to suture right now, because unfortunately - I am sorry - this pandemic goes waves and we do not know when it will end. We would have liked to be able to give this beautiful announcement, but we can't do it. The real Italians took this whole story away because they understood it. There are people out there who are simply aspiring to take back their lives. Someone in here is aspiring to take over the recovery plan. [[Applause]] Italians have understood that at this time politics is divided into two different categories: those that the recovery plan wants to write it and those that the recovery plan wants to own it. [[Applause]] President, it is right and institutionally necessary for you to speak of a civic sense, of the development of the human person, of conscience and of commitment. Patience if anyone talks about Secret Service. I know you were almost forced to come here today to tell us that you will grant the delegation to a third person, but we can't imagine that out of here the whole nation to these words took a sigh of relief. [[Applause]] The scourge of this country lies between the political class and civil society and does not abandon us. What are we talking about? We respect the exhortations of the President of the Republic, those who call for a plethora of pride, but the civic spirit, unfortunately, is not improvised. Senator Renzi, loyalty and consistency are not established by decree. [[Applause]] Senator Bernini spoke of freedom, but freedom is not to make yourself comfortable ad libitum. Giorgio Gaber said that freedom is not an empty space, but participation. [[Applause]] Mr President, there is a parliamentary pact and a programme that you are giving today - I quote your words - to all those who recognize the value of politics and who we subscribe to, and I am speaking here on behalf of the entire 5 Star Group. There are 92 of us here; by the way, where are the rows of triggers that were to knock... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]] . .the statements you made to the newspapers. Ninety-two we had to be here and we are there; indeed we are ninety-two, because the 92nd, Senator Castiello, is fighting against the Covid and to him we send a warm greeting. A fighter! [[Applause]] Right now, there is a need for men and women capable of loving their country. We love our country and our pact with the citizens will resist; it has always resisted in the ten years of history of Movimento 5 Stars and will resist even at this moment, so rich in sacrifices and acts of civil heroism, which unfortunately this time did not belong to this political class. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u148	Senator Licheri, since the rules are the same for everyone, I would like to point out... [[Comments]] Please, a little politeness. I would point out to you that you spoke 14 minutes without ever being interrupted, in front of Senator Salvini's 15 minutes. This is because the sign of the watch must always do so and I always let everyone speak and it's not good.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u150	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u151	ROMANI (Misto-IEC). Mr President, my speech will be calmer than the previous speaker. I take the floor in dissent from the Mixed Group, to declare the vote against on behalf of the Senators of the Idea and Cambiamo component on confidence. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we cannot give you confidence. We have not done so on the many occasions on which you have come to this House to ask for it, and we will not do so on this occasion; indeed, I would say especially on this occasion. In fact, at a time when one of the parties that supported your government took away your support, you had two paths in front of you: to go to the Head of State and resign or to seek a new majority in the two Houses. Both are envisaged in our parliamentary democracy. But the President of the Republic has allowed you to search for a patrol of willing, responsible, builders, who will probably give you even in this House more votes (perhaps few) than those of the oppositions. But this too had already happened in the past. You will probably have a majority in this House today, but not an absolute majority. All this thanks also and above all to the rethinking of that party which caused the crisis, but which is abstaining in this House today. But this too had happened in the past of our parliamentary Republic. There have been - you will remember - the governments of non-confidence, weak governments, which have had very tiring lives, both in the Commissions and in this House. And whenever that party or that Member of Parliament is not convinced of a measure, you will have to come up with a revised solution or look for another majority. I still want to repeat this: this has already happened in republican history. But we - several colleagues have said so on many occasions - are experiencing an extraordinary and exceptional moment. There is a pandemic that has killed to date 80,000 fellow citizens; an extraordinary vaccination plan that should, if done with great speed, take us out of this tragedy and 200 billion European resources to spend on projects to be put on the field by 2023, that is that reasonable date of the expiry of its government. But you, Mr President, are at this crucial stage, as you yourself called it this morning, with a small majority and a pick-up. What surprised us most - I have almost finished, Mr President - was your call, indeed your call for help to the European, popular, liberal and socialist forces. Were these not the forces which the party which appointed him President of the Council considered to be obsolete, representative of old-fashioned values, in the extraordinary topicality of the one worth one, which had to archive a past fact - you said then - of corruption and privileges, so much so that its party asked to open these same institutions as cans of tuna and - I imagine - throw away its contents? Mr President, the dramatic and emerging context we are experiencing would require a completely different level of confrontation, certainly greater political stability and, above all, an extraordinary, enormous design capacity: the great absence, I believe, of this parliamentary passage. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Romani. ROMANI (Misto-IEC). I'm done. At a time when it would be necessary to redesign the socio-economic aspect of the country and, at the same time, to face the health emergency, it is no longer sufficient to have a government with such a precarious majority and even a minority majority in one of the two elected assemblies of the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u153	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u154	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, today, President Conte is convinced that he is a pro-European and anti-populist; more, he calls on the builders to join forces against the sovereignist front. Too bad that the Count himself had consciously debuted on the political scene, in this legislature, as Head of a sovereignist and populist government; and he claimed it. I honestly think he's being honest today. Count lied earlier: it was before he raped his own identity; it was before he sold out for the longing to become President of the Council. And his art of lying to himself, before the Italians, makes him dangerous. Mr. President Conte, you have no moral limits. President Conte, you lied then about power exactly as you are now lying to the Italians about a health emergency that Government and various committees have made more dramatic than it is. It is important to the Italians when they talk about paid cash supplements, paid refreshments, and available money. But do you know that outside these Palazzi there's money for usurers and crime? The money of the unprivileged and unconquered Italians is running out, because you've closed everything down and you're charging everything. Enough hypocrisy, it is your fault, because you are on the side of the strongest, the multinationals; because your weakness needs a protector of a Masonic elite, a political lodge. You have offended the memory of the victims of the Morandi Bridge in Genoa and still protect Benetton and his men today. You betrayed the savers cheated on by the banks because you are now bridling with the banking system, which will, by the way, abandon two million over-indebted families. Betrayed on Ilva. I mean, where there's a master you're there. You are genuflex with the Chinese, you gave the money to FCA and to strange mediation companies to deliver to the Italians some masks that you paid more than their value. In that case, you threw the money out in advance. You pay multinationals like Pfizer, who in the absolute secrecy of contracts also takes you for the shoulders by cutting the vaccination doses. After all, it is not every day that you are dealing with a supercommissary as incapable as Mimmo Arcuri. To continue in your doubles, you will use the Secret Service against the free parliamentarians and against those who will resist. Compasses and Services, put together, produce files and we've already seen these things. In conclusion, of the two: either the Covid emergency is not serious or this majority is not serious. The answer will be given by the armchairs you will share with the builders. You of the Movimento 5 Stars have passed from Casaleggio to Tabacci, from Dario Fo to Mario Monti. A little European pedagogy was enough... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Count... [[Comments]] You don't tell me enough. Shut up.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u155	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u156	PARAGO (Mixed). Count and Covid, five letters that are enough to ruin the Italians. Italexit says no. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u158	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u159	RICHETTI (Mixed-+Eu-Az). Mr President, President Conte, I would like to stay away from this exchange of accusations, from references to an incomprehensible crisis, to a Senate away from the real country, told by the Senate to itself, and instead I would like to stay at your speech today (provided that the considerations I am about to make you are of some interest). He spoke of a pro-European government, he made an appeal to the liberals, to the people, to the socialists: it is difficult to remain indifferent. I would vote for confidence if it were not the same Premier who told me in this House about the value and goodness of sovereignism. I would vote for confidence, if the call to liberals did not do so by the Premier who brought the State to Ilva, Autostrade SpA, Alitalia, the banks, which is not exactly the liberal plant. I would vote for confidence if the appeal to the Socialists did so by a Premier who puts resources at work and not on unproductive assistance and on the income of citizenship. I would vote for trust, Mr President, if the appeal to the people was made by a Premier Guaranteer and not a Premier Justice. You said today, in anticipation, that this country deserves a cohesive government and, in your reply, you explained that the government is not cohesive about the ESM and not because you say so, but because the statements of your ministers, Delrio and Mr Marcucci, who are going in the opposite direction to those of other representatives of the majority, say so. The real heroes are not us, they are not ministers; they are probably doctors, nurses, teachers, law enforcement. Mr President, you have applied to be a lawyer for the people, but with today's argument I fear that you are condemning Italy to voidness and inconclusiveness. Minister Di Maio proposed the Ursula model: Minister Di Maio, I take it at your word. But you can't make the Ursula model with the Premier who was Salvini's. Do you want to get involved, expand? Do you want a majority on the European model? Get up to the Quirinale and ask for a truly Europeanist and liberal Premier and then we'll put the bullet away. There will no longer be a need to count 149, 152, 157; there will be large, Europeanist majorities and really against the sovereignists and nationalists. And in the end, we'd put Italy back in the place it deserves. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u160	Pursuant to Rule 161, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote on motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris and Unterberger, on whose approval the Government has put the question of trust. The senators in favour of the motion for a resolution will reply yes; the opposing senators will reply no; the senators who intend to abstain will respond accordingly. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote exclusively from his place, declaring his/her vote. I see too many assemblages, I keep saying that, but it seems to me that they are words in the wind. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Pazzaglini is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Pazzaglini. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, is appealing. The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bini, Boldrini, Botto, Bressa, Buccarella Country, Cario, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Catalfo, Cattaneo, Causin, Cerno, Cioffi, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Corbetta, Corrado, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Falco, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Ferrara, Ferrara, Liazza, Donno, Durnwalti Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Fantetti, Fattori, Fede, Fedeli, Fenu, Ferrara, Ferraria, Ferraria, Ferrazzi, Floriano, Flori Senators say no: Aimi, Alderisi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Agugussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Barbaro, Barboni, Battistoni, Berardi, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Bongiorno, Bonino, Righesi, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Briziarelli, Bruzzone Calandrini, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cantù, Casolati, Centinario, Cesaro, Ciriani, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Carlo, De Poli, De Siano, De Vecchis, Doria, Drago Faggi, Fazzolari, Fazzone, Ferrero, Ferro, Floris, Fregolent, Fusco Galliani, Gallone, Garnero Santanche, Gasparri, Ghedini, Ghedini, Giammanco, Giarcarico, Giario, Giario, Giar, Giarus, Fazzori, Fazzori, Fazzo, Fazone, Fazzori, Fazzo The senators are abstaining: Bellanova, Bonifazi Carbone, Beginini, Conzatti, Cucca Faraone Garavini, Ginetti, Grimani Magorno Parente Renzi Sbrollini, Sudano Vono. [[During the vote, applause was held at the address of the Segre senators, Mr Causin, Mr Drago, Mr Giarrusso, Mr Martelli, Mr Minuto and Mr Rossi after their vote.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The second call is over, too. Is there anyone who hasn't voted yet? I declare the vote closed and invite... [[Comments.]] Senator Ciampollo, make your explanation of vote. [[Comments]] Durnwalder, Secretary. Campollo... [[Protests.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, I had already closed the vote. [[Applause]] I actually called back and said if anyone else was there and I was declaring the vote closed. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. [[Comments]] Sorry, I asked who was still to vote and I was saying: I declare the vote closed. [[Happy Protests]] I'm comparing myself to the secretary senators. If a person is there and doesn't show up, I don't like you coming under to protest. I'm talking to the secretary senators about that. Calm down. I don't think it's a tragedy. Calm down. Please, I don't like you coming down here. Stay where you are. In this regard, we will verify from the video, because the Secretary Senators are also expressing themselves on this and I am here just to check, so let's stop the controversy, sit down and let us work [[Applause]] Invitation to Senators Queries to approach, please. Please, just have a moment of patience because we have to check it out. Being an important vote, Senators Quaestors now go to Pannini Room because the Secretary Senators also have uncertainties about this. We therefore make them tell us what happened and we decide in relation to this vote. I would ask you, please, to avoid gathering in this House. Sit in your place while we wait for the senators. Colleagues, I would ask you to take your place because this assembly is unacceptable. [[Comments]] No, please, I don't want any controversy. Senators quaestors have made an assessment of the decision to close the vote. Turns out Senator Ciampolillo arrived at 22.14. I declared closing at 10:15. [[Comments]] Sorry, since he raised his hand, I couldn't see him and no one identified him except after I had already declared closure. Therefore, I repeat to the vote, according to the result of the video sequence, both Senator Ciampolillo and Senator Nencini, who was immediately after. [[Comments. Applause.]] Yeah, I saw it all the time, he was behind it, and he raised his hand. It is clear that if Senator Ciampolillo had not been admitted, Senator Nencini would not have been admitted. Excuse me, it's a delicate moment. Precisely because of the uncertainty, because it was a matter of seconds, I made sure that there was peace of mind on the part of everyone about a result that could be fair and did not favour anyone. In light of this, I invite Senators Ciampolillo and Nencini to express their vote. [[Applause]] . The senators say yes: Ciampollo Nencini. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Please, because we have to give the result, if you put each one of you in place I would be grateful for it, because it is unacceptable for this assembly in the hemicycle. That's not possible, please. I declare the result of the roll-call vote on motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris and Unterberger, on whose approval the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 313 Senators voting 312 Majority 149 Favorable 156 Contrari 140 Absent 16]] The Senate approves. [[Live, prolonged applause.]] The motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Ciriani, Bernini, Romeo and Romani is therefore not included. The debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers ended.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u161	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-293.ana.u162	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday 20 January, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) [[Brusio]] Are you kidding me? We are in front of all Italians, to whom we say to keep the distance and the masks! Please, colleagues! The sitting was closed at 22.35 a.m.
