ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.37 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 27 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Colleagues, as we have learned, yesterday Guglielmo Epifani, a trade union leader who has always held the first place, in the scale of values, the work and the protection of workers' rights, has failed: a commitment carried out also in Parliament. In the last parliamentary term, he chaired the Commission's production activities in the Chamber of Deputies. A man of the union, of the CGIL, always attentive to respect, even in the hardness of the positions he assumed during his activity. The commemoration of Mr Epifani will take place at a later stage and I now call on the House to observe a moment of silence and recollection in union and closeness to the people closest to him. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u5	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 17 June. The agenda for today's sitting provides for the discussion of the draft Constitutional Act on the protection of the environment. The explanations of vote and the final vote on the measure will take place tomorrow from 9.15 a.m. to 11 a.m. The session will then be suspended until 3.30 p.m. to allow senators to participate in the funerals of William Epifani. The Commission may meet from 2 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. From 3.30 p.m. to 7 p.m. tomorrow will be discussed the bill on the destination of 5 per thousand to the Police and Fire Departments, from the writing site, and the bill on the establishment of an exclusive economic zone, approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline for tabling amendments to this last measure is 6 p.m. today. Thursday, June 10 will be discussed the motion De Carlo on the protection and promotion of Italian agri-food products. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place with the presence of the Ministers for Justice, Economic Development and Health. The timetable for next week's work, with sessions starting from Tuesday 15 June, at 16.30, includes the following topics: decree-law on the resumption of economic activities, currently being approved by the Chamber of Deputies; decree-law on the Complementary Fund of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan; the document establishing a single-camera investigation commission on the fight against illegal gambling, where concluded by the Commission; at 15.00 on Thursday 17th the question time. On Wednesday 16 June, at 9 a.m., the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights is convened to proceed with the election of the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 17 June: [[Tuesday, June 8 h. 16,30 - Drawing of constitutional law n. 83 and related - Constitutional protection of the environment (first resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawings of law n. 1443 and 1521 - Destination of 5 per thousand to the Police and Fire Departments (from the writing site) - Drawing of law n. 2007 - Establishment of an exclusive economic zone (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Motion n. 371, De Carlo, on the protection and promotion of Italian agri-food products - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 10, at 15) Wednesday 9 " h. 9,15-19 Thursday 10 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to draft law No 2007 (exclusive economic zone institution) will have to be tabled by 6 p.m. on 8 June. [[Tuesday, June 15 h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 52, Resumption of economic activities (where transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on 21 June) - Drawing of law n. 2207 - Decree-Law n. 59, Supplementary Fund National Recovery and Resilience Plan (decades on 6 July) - Document XXII, n. 32 - Institution Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the contrast to illegal gambling (where concluded by the Commission) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 17, at 15) Wednesday 16 " h. 9,30 Thursday 17 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No... (Decree-Law No 52, Resumption of Economic Activities) will be fixed in relation to the work of the Commission. Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 52, Resumption of economic and social activities) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 32'+5' PD 29' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2207 (Decree-Law No 59, Supplementary Fund National Recovery and Resilience Plan) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 43' Mixed 40'+5' PD 37' FdI 28'+5' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 83, 212, 938, 1203, 1532, 1627, 1632 and 2160. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Maiorino, whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the draft constitutional law submitted by the 1st Commission to the House today is the result of a long and thorough investigation which began in October 2019, which enabled us to find a synthesis shared between eight different proposals, most of which were presented and combined during the examination, characterized by a cycle of informal hearings as in a few previous ones, with the participation of about 40 experts, mainly constitutionalists, and with a lively and constructive confrontation between the political forces that lasted throughout the course of the analysis of the texts, until the last session of the Commission, held together by the common awareness that introducing in the text of the Constitutional Charter a reference to environmental protection was a necessary and no longer postponed step. It is known that the Constitutional Court, through the provisions of Articles 9 and 32 on the protection of the landscape and health respectively, had already derived this principle from the Charter of 1948. It is also clear that the reform of Title V of 2001 by giving the State exclusive legislative competence in the field of environmental protection and the ecosystem had strengthened this dimension. It is now necessary to complete the process and give without interpretative mediation a clear environmental dimension to our Constitution, in line with the evolution of a sensitivity that is based on the need to preserve the natural context in which we live and of which we are part. Moreover, most of the European legal systems have already updated the Constitutions over the years. Because of the numerous proposals, a restricted Committee was set up and a unified text, adopted by the Commission as a basis for the examination, consisting of three articles, was drawn up. Following interlocutions aimed at creating the necessary conditions of consensus for its approval, an amendment was tabled and adopted which then reduced it to two articles. Article 1 adds a paragraph to Article 9 of the Constitution. In this respect, it should be noted that all the draft laws examined jointly by the Commission identified in that article, which already provides for the protection of the landscape, as the natural site for the introduction of a principle of environmental protection. From the editorial point of view, it was preferred not to intervene on the current text, but to propose the introduction of a further paragraph, specifically dedicated to environmental profiles, divided into two periods. In the first period, alongside that of the environment, the Republic is also given the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems. The first of these two further profiles refers to a specific dimension of natural reality, but also recognizes a wealth and a primacy of our country, like the landscape and historical-artistic one recalled by the second paragraph. The protection of ecosystems, on the other hand, in addition to recalling the legislative competence of the State, referred to in point (s) of the second paragraph of Article 117, emphasizes the need to adopt, always in the environmental field, an overall vision. Also in the first period, a reference is introduced expressing the interest of future generations. The formula, on the one hand, aims to constitute a commitment to long-term environmental policies and, on the other hand, to take up in substance the concept of sustainable development, in line with the approach of our Republic's founding Charter, so as to free it from trans-European interpretations. The second period, on the other hand, concerns the protection of animals, through the introduction of a reserve of state law governing their forms and methods. For the first time, therefore, animals, which have already been protected by the Lisbon Treaty, are of constitutional importance. It was considered, in fact, that environmental protection could not be considered complete, if animals were not explicitly included, the treatment of which has an extremely significant impact on the environment and human health. We believe that the result achieved is a great success, as well as a revolutionary step. The summary reached in the Commission then correctly identifies in Parliament the place of mediation between interests in the field. Article 2 instead introduces two amendments to Article 41 of the Constitution on the exercise of the economic initiative. The first amendment takes place on the second paragraph and states that private economic initiative cannot be carried out in damage to health and the environment by imposing these two limits on those already in force, namely security, freedom and human dignity. In this way, the Commission has intended to give substance to the new wording of Article 9, raising to constitutional rank principles already laid down in ordinary rules and also supporting health to the environment for the close correlation between the two aspects. (The sitting was suspended at 16.50 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 16.50 a.m. and resumed at 16.50 a.m.) The second amendment, on the other hand, involves the third paragraph of Article 41, reserving to the law the possibility of directing and coordinating economic activity, public and private, for not only social but also environmental purposes. As evidence of the importance of the values that are intended to protect, it is noted that, once approved, the draft law would introduce, by Article 1, the first revision of the part of our Charter in which the fundamental principles are set out and, by Article 2, the first amendment of the provisions on the Economic Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u9	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we sapiens, since the appearance on Gaia, have changed the environment exponentially since the industrial revolution. In the last century, then, we have upset the already labile balance between natural and anthropic environment, destroying half of the original wetlands, disarming and polluting all the environmental matrixes, from the Poli to the Equator, from the Himalayan peaks to the oceanic pits. To show you how necessary it is to protect our common home, I have chosen six dates of the last year and a half. 5 November 2019: the climate emergency is declared by over 11,000 scientists from all nations and world scientific institutions. 31 December 2019: China communicates the spread of a cluster of atypical lungs of viral origin. It's the pandemic apocalypse going on. 12 November 2020: Human buildings (that is, all that man has built) exceed the entire planetary biomass. 9 December 2020: a climate model indicates that the point of no return in global warming is exceeded, even if climate neutrality is to be achieved today. February 6, 2021: on Ocean Science, the estimates of the highest level of the sea raised forecast at 2100 from the Intergovernmental panel on climate change (IPCC), from 110 to 135 cm (thought in Venice, but also in New York, Bangkok, Shanghai and others). 19 April 2021: The World Weather Organization announces that in 2020 the global average temperature exceeded by 1.2 degrees that pre-industrial; the last decade has been the hottest ever and 2020 the hottest year in history. We're on the edge of the abyss and we're even falling. It is therefore essential to prevent, halt and reverse the degradation of ecosystems. Restoring the ecosystem means moving from the senseless exploitation of nature to its healing; only with healthy ecosystems can we improve our living conditions, combat climate change, raise the level of the sea and hydrogeological failure and stop the collapse of biodiversity. We should subtract billions of hectares of land from soil consumption, restoring them to their original ecosystem functions. We should repopulate the Planet with endangered animal species. We must improve, restore, recover, reclaim, regenerate, restore and renaturalize the environment: a titanic enterprise, to be carried out on a global scale. As a demonstration that economy and environment are two sides of the same coin and that ecology is not implemented against the economy, but through it, it is estimated that, for every euro invested in renaturalization, society has a return from 7 to 30 euros. This is where we have to start in the post-pandemic recovery. The Italian Parliament plays its part and begins the process of constitutional protection of the environment. Today we are here to amend Articles 9 and 41 of the Constitution, the first of which reads: The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. Now the following paragraphs are added: It protects the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems, also in the interest of future generations. The law of the State governs the methods and forms of animal protection. Article 41 reads as follows: The private economic initiative is free. It cannot be carried out in conflict with social usefulness or in such a way as to harm security, freedom and human dignity. It is added to health, the environment and the environment. Then he goes on: The law determines the appropriate programmes and controls for public and private economic activity to be addressed and coordinated for social purposes. It is added: "Environmental" = "Environmental" = "Environmental" = "Environmental" = Inserting the right to the environment in the Constitution would recognise, directly, a right that had already been described as a derivative of the right to health. Among other things, the principle of sustainable development, as set out in Article 37 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, should be implemented, so that a high level of environmental protection and the improvement of its quality must be ensured. At present, the protection of the environment and ecosystems is a legitimate collective interest in the Italian legal system, whereas if the right of the person to the environment were expressly recognised in the Constitution, the right to the health of the environment would be recognized for each individual, with the duty of the State to protect him. This would lead to the need to safeguard ecological balance, preserve natural ecosystems and protect the biodiversity of flora and fauna; to prevent contamination of fresh water and sea; to reduce soil consumption; to promote renewable energy sources and to limit pollutant emissions to a level that can be absorbed by the environment. It should be noted that in the draft law No 83, the basis of the discussion opened in the Senate, the amendment of Article 9 provided for the following paragraph: • pursues the improvement of the conditions of air, water, soil and territory, in the whole and its components • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Unfortunately, the clear term 'improvement', in the new amended text of the rapporteur, would fall, but it is true that environmental protection is a unitary concept, which includes not only the protection of environmental matrixes as available at present, but also their restoration to an original state. The environment, in short, is protected not by preserving the status quo, but by reclamation of polluted sites, restoration of defaced territories and environmental, landscape and urban regeneration. In conclusion, protecting the environment today is essential for a future. We can no longer derogate under any circumstances or simplify any intervention by sacrificing the environment. It is certainly the simplest route, but also the most direct shortcut to plunge into the abyss. On the other hand, it is necessary to improve the environment from a physical, biological and above all ethical point of view. Eco-sustainability, justice, sharing, peace, freedom and solidarity must now guide all our actions: with the constitutional change that we are beginning to approve today it will be easier and guaranteed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, authoritative Senator colleagues, when we arrive here and discuss a draft constitutional law, we should all be particularly attentive and sensitive to the role of legislators, when a moment like this, that is, that of amending our Constitution, appears to be the highest. It is the most significant experience for those who are elected to Parliament and feel that they even have to intervene on the Constitutional Charter, which was drawn up at the end of the Second World War and allowed us to become a democratic country, projected development and a new life. Well, personally, as an enthusiast of our Constitution and also by virtue of my party, Forza Italia, which has always had a deep respect for it, I have always had a particularly respectful attitude towards it: precisely for this reason, I am absolutely convinced that we cannot intervene episodicly - or even in installments - to modify a Constitutional Charter that has been conceived, studied, elaborated, drawn up and approved by our constituent Fathers as a whole. For this reason, in the first Commission - my colleagues from Forza Italia, who accompany me in this wonderful experience, can testify to this - I have always proudly opposed on several occasions to intervene on our Constitution in installments, as if it could be done: instead, it is not possible to intervene on it, except with a harmonious project. However, there is an exception to my harmonious vision of our Constitution and the need to intervene adequately and comprehensively on its various titles and on what our constituent Fathers had thought for us and for the future of the country, certainly not for that particular historical moment. In this case, of course, that projection captures instead the absolute essence of it, namely that we must intervene on our Constitution not to change it in tone, but to integrate it with a principle and a value that, perhaps, many years ago could not be thought to be so important for the daily life of Italian citizens. Today the country has profoundly changed from an unbridled industrialization, from economic development, from an increase of the inhabitants, therefore from an increasingly fierce anthropization, from a concentration of the citizens in the big cities and from a sensitivity towards the environment and the protection of the nature that in those times they did not have. For those who are passionate about the Constitutional Court, I simply recall that the Consultative Committee intervened on more than one occasion to establish that, when discussing issues related to the protection of health and the landscape, our Constitution could already mean at that time that it had to protect the environment, automatically, in direct projection of the legal concept that has been developed more recently throughout the world and that it has become an absolute necessity today. I was extremely pleased to hear the first speech by the President of the Council of Ministers Mario Draghi, who, among the various reforms he felt it was right to propose for this Government in the current historical phase of our country, at such a dramatic time for the lives of all citizens, said that it was no longer possible to postpone the inclusion in our Constitutional Charter of the principle of environmental protection. This is something I have married and applauded, as we have all done. Our Constitutional Court had already understood that. The whole world is looking towards the protection of the environment, towards the indication of legal and regulatory instruments that clarify more and more that protecting the environment means preserving the ecosystem in which we live for future generations, for those who will come after us. We are only temporary owners of a world that will be left to those who come after us and have the absolute duty, not the right, to preserve it. You understand, therefore, that everything that has to do with the protection of the environment and that is appropriately included in the three articles of this constitutional bill becomes an epochal passage for our Republic, for our Country and above all projects us among those countries that already before ours have appropriately inserted the principle of protection of the environment in their own Constitutional Charters. Each of us must be aware that the world has changed profoundly in recent years and also the fact that the European Commission has imposed, as a condition for access to aid that will also come in Italy, in what is called the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the principle that these resources will not only have to be spent and well, but will have to be spent, especially those that tend to propose investments on the territory, in a logic oriented to the protection of the environment in which we live. The so-called ecological transition is not a conquest of this Government, but it is now a fact of modern society. The European Commission has simply imposed on our country to foresee in its economic projection agenda that any kind of modernisation must go through nature protection, the right to health and the healthy environment, the reduction of pollution, not only to protect health, but also to ensure a healthier environment in which to project the lives of the generations to come. Personally, I have always been a fan of this issue, as Mrs Gallone knows, who was part of the restricted committee, which I thank for the work she has done. It is right to remind all the senators, even those who do not participate in the work of the first Commission, constitutional affairs, that there has been a small committee that has worked hard, in which there has also been a harsh comparison on some issues, for example on the principle of animal protection, for which a form of delegation to Parliament has been found to regulate its application. I would like to thank Vice President Calderoli, because he was certainly one of our legislators. Allow me, Mr Calderoli, to say that it deserves a round of applause, because it has committed itself to this and has given a fundamental projection of the value that this Parliament must have on these issues. [[Applause]] I shall conclude my speech by simply saying that there is a way and a way to intervene on the Constitution. In this case, we do so by integrating, in terms of ancillaryity, what was there to identify and insert a fundamental principle for the quality of our future life and those who will come after us. I therefore welcome all those who have worked with me in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and all the senators who will vote in favour of this very important constitutional reform. I thank my party, Forza Italia, for allowing us to do all this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u13	Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u14	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for their excellent work. The issue we discussed in the Commission was of particular complexity. In fact, it was necessary, as a preliminary step, to establish which bioethic approach to accept as a basis of regulatory intervention. It is easy to accuse modern constitutions of anthropocentrism, but studies of bioethics say that, today, it must be declined as an anthropocentrism of care or custody. The Commission has therefore made a clear choice of field, deciding to protect the environment, even in the light of future generations. So yes, the article we are proposing to the House still places man at the centre, but as a guardian and as a responsible subject and not as a master and lord of the environment. It was therefore a complex task, partly because we had a duty to arrive at a text in line with the extraordinary style that pervades our Constitutional Charter: a Charter of principles and extraordinary clarity, around which national unity is combined. Well, I believe that this challenge has been won, also because we have worked taking into account what the Constitutional Court, the doctrine and philosophical and bioethics studies have indicated. We have done well not to refer in a united way only to biodiversity and only to ecosystems. Let us not forget that we too are part of biodiversity; if we were to talk only about biodiversity, without adding anything else, we would automatically have included the human being, who, on the other hand, sees ad hoc rules reserved to it in a Charter of Principles and Values. It was therefore decided to specify that the protection of animals is a matter for the State. Let us be clear: this is not the result of the intention to reduce the importance of animals within the ecosystem, but rather to allow efficient protection, suitable and appropriate to this important part of the world, of which we are part. Let us not forget that, according to sociologists, the goods that contribute to achieving a good level of quality of life are, without any exhaustive intention, health, personal freedom, the integrity of affections and personal relationships, work, equality and the health of the environment. Well, these goods must be distinguished, because some of them may suffer a temporary limitation or a temporary sacrifice, while others do not tolerate any compression and therefore the legislator has a duty to diversify them. To reserve a specific part of the text for animal protection is to allow protection to be modulated, because of a better balance of the ecosystem. I therefore believe that today we are delivering to the House a text which the constituent fathers would appreciate if they were still among us. It is therefore with pride that I entrust to this House the fruit of our joint work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u15	She is registered to speak Senator Pavanelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a global emergency. Scientists tell us that man - induced climate change using fossil fuels has led the human race and our animal friends to the sixth mass extinction of life on earth. Yet only a few of them living these days are in the least aware of this reality. The International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), a UN scientific body, launched a terrible warning in October 2018: greenhouse gas emissions are accelerating and we are on the verge of a series of increasingly intense climate events that will endanger life on the planet. The IPCC has estimated that, due to human activity, the temperature has increased compared to pre-industrial levels of one degree centigrade and has predicted that the crossing of the threshold of 1,5 degrees centigrade will trigger uncontrollable feedback loop and a cascade of climate changes that will decimate the ecosystems of the earth. To the kind of life we know today, there would be no return. According to Harvard's famous biologist Edward Wilson, the extinction of species, due to human activity, continues to accelerate so quickly that it eliminates more than half of all species by the end of this century, that is, when today's newborns will be elderly. The IPCC has come to the conclusion that in order to avoid the environmental disaster we will have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 45% compared to 2010 levels and we only have 11 years to do so. This will require an unprecedented transformation in the human history of our global economy, our society and our own way of life. In other words, the human species is faced with a radical reorientation of its civilization, to be realized in a very short period of time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what I have just read is a part of the book "A green new global deal" by the famous economic theorist Jeremy Rifkin. I would like to focus on one part in particular: the human species is faced with a radical reorientation of its civilization, to be achieved in a very short period of time. [[Applause]] The Movimento 5 Stars, since its birth (we already speak of eleven years ago), has always put the environment at the center of its actions not only political. [[Applause]] They gave us idealists and we were labeled in every possible and imaginable way. We were the only ones talking about the environment and its protection; we were the only ones talking about climate emergency. And look now: after years we are here, in this Palace, to discuss including the protection of the environment and animals in our Constitution. [[Applause]] The Constitution itself, created to defend us from the barbarism of that monocolored time, will now be shaped and expanded to adapt to the new battles that this time offers, caused by years of indiscriminate pollution, hellishness against our ecosystems, contempt and carelessness of our most precious good. How many policies have been adopted in recent years that have not taken into account the air we breathe and the purity of our aquifers? How many policies have been put in place for urban reforestation, sustainable mobility and the start of a real circular economy that used waste as a resource and not only as a material to be incinerated? [[Applause]] These are the themes that the Movimento 5 Stars has carried out in recent years, with all the difficulties of the case - we must tell ourselves this - but how much have we been right with the passage of time? We have revolutionized the political and environmental paradigm of this country; now we are talking about superbonus and energy efficiency of buildings, energy communities, circular economy and today we are talking about including the protection of the environment and animals in our constitutional dictation. A change of epochal paradigm. [[Applause]] Today we are talking about incorporating new safeguards into our Constitutional Charter in order to concretely create the basis for addressing the challenges that lie ahead from here to 2050, a revolutionary and necessary norm to implement the process of ecological transition that loads us with a new value and cultural baggage more attentive to social and environmental well-being. I am pleased to point out that even the most sceptical part of my colleagues on this constitutional change has gone backwards, has returned to its steps and has fully understood the need to incorporate environmental protection into the Constitution. As I said before, we face great challenges that we will all have to carry out together. And, no, now we cannot afford any political play, as in the past; now is the time to do seriously and put the common good first on the scale of values and politics. [[Applause]] The future has not taken the necessary path and if we are here, it is to reverse the course and take the path of change; a change that, as Rifkin said, will see us all personally involved, starting from changing our environmental, social and nutritional habits. Our society will undergo a profound change that will lead us to a new ecological evolution. Inserting environmental protection into the Constitution is the first brick in this process, a brick that brings us into line with the other European Constitutions and beyond. Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Hungary; with the necessary differences, all these countries have within their constitutional dictates the protection of the environment or in any case the reference to the right to have a healthy environment. Since 1946 our Constitution has protected and protected us. It must now be updated, with particular reference to Articles 9 and 41, adding that environmental and animal protection cannot be avoided. A civilized country, like ours, must take this step if it wants to move swiftly towards that ecological transition that is so desired. [[Applause]] We have a task and a deadline, 2050; other alternatives do not exist, are not weighted or ponderable. We need to put the environment at the center of our work. President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are rewriting together a piece of history of our country and putting environmental and animal protection in our Constitution. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues Gianluca Perilli and Alessandra Maiorino for their work. [[Applause]] and to all the Movimento 5 Stars. Today our star of the environment shines and will shine strong for a long, long time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u18	Mr President, we have added a few lines that should safeguard the environment in our Constitution. The changes that have taken place since the founding fathers wrote the Constitution are evident. After the war Italy had the economic boom and widespread industrialization. The population has grown and needs have grown, often induced by a development model that is absolutely not attentive to environmental issues. Urbanism has changed, and is still changing, the face of the country, in parallel with the change in the means of production and the economy that is experiencing an unparalleled globalization. However, it seems evident that few words do not change the substance of the facts. If words were enough, we would live in an ideal world. The problem in this country - and let us remember that Parliament is the mirror of the country - is just too many words that do not respond to the facts. Heinous crimes against the environment were done by people who, in words, said they were defending him. Everyone fills his mouth with the word environment, but few really respect him. Just to give a number, Legambiente in its 2020 Ecomafia Report reports that 34,648 environmental crimes have been established in 2019; four per hour, an increase of 23.1 percent compared to 2018, for an estimated turnover of 19.9 billion: a financial one. But I believe that it is important for all of us who represent the people and institutions to clear the field from hypocrisies: the environment is the common good par excellence. But how is it possible on the one hand to say that we are defending the environment and, on the other hand, to give back the vitality to those who have committed crimes and have been condemned definitively for crimes that may have had to do with the environment? [[Applause]] How can we say that we defend the environment and then promote a referendum in order to change part of the Severino law and ask to abolish the automatism related to the terms of incandidability, ineligibility and decadence? How is it possible to want those who are not candidates to run? Not to mention the prescription on which many, too many, would like to go back. Either you rely on the law or you say you trust it but then you fear it and you do everything you can to get around the rules, as all too often has happened in the past. We all know that who can afford a good lawyer, often the prescription reaches and frustrates the work of both the law enforcement agencies, who may have risked their lives to find a culprit, and of the judiciary that has spent time and taxpayers' money to carry out the investigation. Public opinion is terrified of the use of interceptions that have proved to be one of the main tools to combat organised crime. What problems can an honest citizen have, what should he fear? And the proposal to impose limits on protective custody also goes in the same direction. In this country the trials are too long and we all know that they must be reduced, but on protective custody we forget that there is always the risk of pollution of the evidence, of the fugitive and of the recurrence of the crime. Protecting the environment means giving back personnel to the public administration, as has been done by the Count Government and as we hope will be continued by the Dragons Government. The demonisation of the public administration done in the past has led to its depletion and increasingly massive recourse to the private sector. I hope that decades of privatisation and striking examples such as the collapse of the Morandi bridge and more recently that of the Mottarone cable car have shown how the private always pursues the maximum profit, often at the expense of safety and the common good. The problem generated by the past demonization of public management has reached the paradox with the progressive but continuous dismantling of public control systems, controls that have been entrusted to those that were to be controlled. For decades privatisations have governed the country with the result, also and above all at the environmental level, that we see today. I hope that all the people who care about the environment realize that one of the main enemies has been liberalism and therefore in the future they differ from those who see in this model of development the remedy of all evils. Freedom and consumerism go hand in hand: people are encouraged to buy even if they are objects that do not change anything and that maybe they already possess. Young people, indoctrinated by mass communication systems and enslaved to producers, absorb messages from advertising without blinking. You buy a mobile phone, whose features are not used or are rarely used and which are already almost all present in the mobile that you already have. You buy a new dress because it goes in fashion and in a different color. This applies to thousands of consumer goods. It is a model of non-sustainable development. We give priority to the economy, forgetting that the future of our children and future generations is compromised. This development model must be changed as soon as possible. In this legislature, thanks to the 5-star Movimento, huge steps have been taken to ensure the sustainability of the environment and resources. You can never forget that every year Earth Overshoot Day, the day of the year in which humanity consumes entirely the resources produced by the planet throughout the year, is anticipated by a few days. This year will take place on 29 July. In practice, after July 29 we will impoverish the planet with our activities and impoverish it with non-renewable resources. Not to mention the disasters we have caused in the extinction of flora and fauna, which has few equals in the geological history of the planet. We must, therefore, speed up quickly. Some processes are probably irreversible, such as climate change and the increase in the average temperatures of the planet, which will lead to the melting of ice caps, with an increase of almost one meter by the end of the century. The disastrous consequences of this phenomenon are obvious. Even if we intervene, we will be able to slow down, but not to block and reverse the process. We are clearly lagging behind and the developing countries are even lagging behind, because there are millions of people who are adopting a consumerist model, increasing the exploitation of non-renewable resources. I hope that having included the environment in the Constitution may mean, for each person, that they have put the environment in their hearts and minds as part of themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u19	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u20	Mr President, there are matters on which it would be sensible to divide, matters on which it would be unreasonable not to find a meeting point, matters on which it would be incomprehensible to prolong the delay that our democracy has accumulated compared to countries like us. The environment is one of these subjects. The protection of the environment, which finally enters as a concept in the Constitutional Charter, was something of which in the fundamental charter of our Republic we felt the lack. Some people who opposed the constitutional change today in our examination have made a remark, which has never convinced me. According to the latter, there is no need to touch on the Constitutional Charter, because constitutional jurisprudence has long ensured the effective protection of the environment, which we try to achieve better by amending our Charter. This observation, like all observations which are not manifestly unfounded, is insidious, but, although not manifestly unfounded, is a wrong observation. There are, in fact, moments and arguments on which a link and alignment between the written Constitution and the living Constitution must be achieved. We admit that there has been a lot of progress in terms of attention to environmental issues in the public conscience for a long time, but we know that it is time to make that alignment I said: that between the written text of the Constitution and what, thanks to the Constitution, lives in our community. We must be very aware of two things. The first is that today we take a very important step, for reasons I will explain; a step for which the adjective "epochal" is not frankly wasted: it is an adjective that I always try to use sparingly, but it seems to me that today we can use it. The second thing is that we would be wrong if we thought that, having taken this step, our task in relation to the challenge of protecting the environment is exhausted, because this is a first step; it is significant but it is a first step, which will have to follow others; in ordinary legislation we should prove ourselves consistent with the choice we have made today, to give proof of linearity, to be able to keep up with the times. With regard to the first thing, I say that we are faced with an epochal fact because it is enough to see the precedents behind us. In the many hearings that we have held, and which the rapporteur rightly mentioned in her introductory speech, it emerged (and perhaps not everyone knows) that already in the Bozzi Commission, which approved its final report (unfortunately not translated into constitutional amendments) in 1985, thirty-six years ago, action was taken on Article 9 of the Constitution to incorporate the concept of environmental protection. By this I mean that behind us there is a very long period of time during which the legislator, having the power to revise the Constitution, has tried to do what is really a step forward today and which I hope tomorrow, with the final vote, can be greeted as a result achieved. And yet he never succeeded. A draft law that intervened on Article 9 with words almost identical to what we decided to include in that article was presented in 2001, in the 14th legislature, 20 years ago, yet another 20 years have passed and the result has not been brought home. It is therefore a great merit that we have succeeded. We must not inflate our breasts, we must not sin vanity, but it is a merit and we must say it forcefully, also because it is the first time - I think the rapporteur well reminded me - that Parliament, acting on Article 9, amends the introductory part of our Constitution, a sort of preamble, that of the fundamental principles, which comes before Part I. And this is the first time that there has been an intervention on Title III of the Part I on economic relations, amending Article 41. When there are so many "first times" it means that the action being taken is significant. There was a delay to be filled with respect to other systems. We were, as unfortunately often happens to us, too far behind other countries. If we take those more like us in Europe, Spain has in its Constitutional Charter the concept of the duty to preserve the environment since its original wording of 1978. Of course, it is facilitated by the fact that it is a Constitution written thirty years after ours, but it was 1978, forty-three years ago; Germany revised in 1994 to incorporate environmental protection into the Constitution; France in 2005 made a huge change, which became paradigmatic, because even the protection of the environment was put in the preamble to the Constitution. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the so-called Charter of Nice, includes environmental protection in Article 37 in 2000, more than 20 years ago. We really had accumulated too much delay and it was really time to write a good page of constitutional review policy. It has been done with balance, thanks to the common sense and constructive spirit of many, and it seems to me that it has also been done with a perfectly appropriate text. It is right to associate the concepts of biodiversity and the protection of ecosystems with environmental protection. As we know, ecosystems (i.e. all interactions between the organisms and systems in which they live) and biodiversity (i.e. the variety of organisms living in these systems) are the typical object of ecology, a science that is fundamental to making good environmental protection. I consider the reference to the fact that we are working in the interests of future generations to be fundamental. That very abused saying, but which I cannot help but mention today, namely that our Planet and our environment we did not inherit from the fathers but received on loan from our children, is true and had to have a sanction in the constitutional text. It seems to me that, with reference to the interest of future generations, this has been done. It was necessary to achieve that alignment between written text and living Constitution, also because it is now clear that we live on a planet where the population, which amounts to 8 billion people, is the quadruple of that one hundred years ago. The resources didn't increase by four, but they're over. The pressure on resources is enormous; the risks are enormous. It was therefore necessary to establish the principle that a different way of life, of producing, of consuming and of moving is necessary. This is done properly. We do this thanks to the unifying work carried out by the rapporteur, Mrs Maiorino, whom I thank, by Senators Perilli, De Petris and Ferrazzi on the restricted committee, by Senator Calderoli, who has already been thanked and who has played a very significant supervisory role, and by Senator Bressa who, for her part, has contributed to the conclusion of this work. I believe that, even in terms of the method, we have done something that can serve us for the future, for this short term of the legislature. This is how constitutional reforms are done. I hope that this will receive a very broad consensus tomorrow and that we can really welcome it as a change that unites us. The defence of the environment, in fact, is a theme of all and an index of wisdom consists also in having the ability not to plant divisive flags. It would be the wrong thing: when a theme belongs to everyone, everyone must recognize their own part of merit, but also the part of merit that others have to carry forward, all together, with pride, a significant result. [[Applause.]] (17.44 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u21	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u22	Mr President, we welcome with great pleasure and interest this legislative initiative which seeks to extend the protections contained in Article 9 of the Constitution and extend them also to the environment. We also hope that these paragraphs concerning the environment, as the first and second paragraphs of Article 9 are not ignored - unfortunately - as well as those concerning the environment: The Republic shall promote the development of culture and scientific and technical research. Unfortunately, the development of culture has been abandoned for a long time, when the constitutional function of the public state school has been dismantled, when its role has been diminished, through its transformation into a sort of forge for the cheap labour of companies and enterprises of the future or of multinationals and when it has been transformed into a summer center, with the teaching function developed as a tourist animator or caregiver, in place of those that should be, instead, many other and high functions that the Constitution had entrusted to this noble profession. However, scientific research, which should be protected by Article 9, has also been subject to market logic, dictated by economic interest, and has lost that freedom which is protected by Article 33 of the Constitution. Do we want to talk about landscape protection? Practically in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan we promote competitiveness in the exploitation of new renewable energy sources and therefore the proliferation of wind turbines, which now devastate any wonderful corner of our territories and our country. Do we want to talk about the protection of the nation's historical and artistic heritage? It has now been completely abandoned because of the degradation of the role of protection played by the Superintendences and therefore the dismantling of the Ministry of Culture (it is now called), which no longer actually fulfills the task of preserving our historical and artistic heritage. Unfortunately, Article 9 is not the only one that has been completely disregarded, because it is easy to talk about principles, but it is necessary to ensure that these principles are implemented in ordinary legislation. Do we want to talk about how Article 70 of the Constitution is completely disregarded through the misuse of the urgent decree? A perfect bicameralism has become a de facto monocameralism, since the decree-laws are examined in practically only one of the two chambers, the first in which the iter begins. Do we want to talk about the amendment of Article 81 of the Constitution, which, unfortunately, imposes the constraint of budgetary balance, thus limiting the exercise of the rights contained in the first part of the Constitution? Not to mention article 41, a fundamental article that unfortunately is totally ignored; we noticed it through the episodes of the last days. It shall read as follows: The private economic initiative is free. It cannot be carried out in conflict with social usefulness or in such a way as to harm security, freedom and human dignity. Just think of what happened in the tragedy of Mottarone, as well as in the tragedy of the collapse of the Morandi bridge, which saw compensation granted not to the victims of the disaster and the manslaughter, but even to the dealers of the highway service. All this brings us back to reality: we have the most beautiful Constitution in the world, but unfortunately we do not have the appropriate political class, suitable to carry it out and to ensure that it is respected in all its articles. In Article 33 of the Constitution concerning public school it is written: "Enti and private individuals have the right to establish schools and educational institutions, without charge for the State". Yet, in 2020, private peer schools have taken up a billion euros and are continually subsidised, with the approval of the 1st Senate Commission, which gives the liberation to everything that actually does not correspond to the constitutional dictation and which now also asks to amend, in order to extend protection, where it does not yet protect fundamental rights. And again: "The school is open to all." The capable and deserving, even if they lack the means, are entitled to reach the highest degrees of the studies. This is also false; unfortunately, it is not because of current legislation because the impoverished school no longer gives students the opportunity to reach the highest grades not only of studies, but also to rise socially, as well as culturally. It is not only the grant of scholarships that can enable these students to rise, but also and above all the quality of the training to be provided by public state schools. A year and a half of closures and lockdowns did not generate even a euro of compensation for training gap because the activity for the recovery of training gap, in September is done at zero cost, while 510 million euros are spent to use schools as summer centers. Article 21 of the Constitution, which protects freedom of expression, how often is it violated and disregarded? Unfortunately, those who freely manifest their thoughts by word, writing or other means of dissemination are then sanctioned by dismissal. This is the case of Riccardo Cristello, fired for having associated the plot of a TV fiction with what is currently being lived in Taranto with Ilva. The same is true of the right to health, which is also unheard of, unfortunately, because we should say that what is happening in Taranto is not a clear violation of the right to health. I hope that these paragraphs for which we from L'Alternativa We are going to vote in favour of it, not being ignored like the rest of the constitutional dictation, because the most beautiful Constitution in the world also deserves a political class capable of enhancing it and enforcing it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u23	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are preparing to debate and vote on today is very much awaited. It is, in fact, essential to provide for environmental respect within our Constitution. The introduction of the same word "environment" is a great act of responsibility not only to the environment itself and its ecosystem, but also to future generations and the whole of mankind. I believe that everyone in this House cares about respect for the environment, which must become increasingly a top priority for the ruling class. It is also necessary in the light of the launch of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the forthcoming European projects, the new programming of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and the new seven-year period and, more generally, to ensure constitutional protection for the environment and protect the future of the next generations. Nowadays everything revolves around the concept of sustainability; it is a fact. It is crucial to invest in environmental sustainability, but I believe it is also necessary to work to ensure the right balance between environmental and economic sustainability. This is not a obvious concept at all. For example, with regard to the new programming of the common agricultural policy, it was born as a policy aimed at increasing productivity and protecting the income of farmers who, let us always remember, are the guardians of our lands. If economic sustainability were to be lost, many companies would close down, abandoning lands with catastrophic consequences for the environment itself and its ecosystem. Let us think, for example, of the hydrogeological failure. If they are asked to invest in sustainability, there is a need to think of appropriate measures for a fair ecological transition. It is not easy to switch to green; it is not something that happens with a snap of fingers. This we must understand and remember that in recent years the agricultural sector has made enormous strides, becoming certainly one of the best allies of the environment and its sustainability. More than 20% of Italian farms have a high level of sustainability, about 31%, and the battery of aid still has to start precisely to promote this same sustainability in agriculture and the circular economy. We therefore give all the agricultural sectors - farmers, farmers and processors - the opportunity to be truly the best allies of the environment. We have years of hard work ahead of us, but at the same time unique opportunities to invest in improving environmental conditions. It is a commitment that each of us must take on individually, but also as a collective. Only in this way will Italy be able to overcome the challenge of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and above all the environmental one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u24	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u25	Mr President, draft law No 83 proposes that the House amend our Constitution and that, in my view, should lead us to be cautious. It is clear that going to modify the basic regulatory framework of our entire legal system, the one on which everything else is based, which prevails over everything else, to which then must refer all the other rules that this House and the other go to adopt, should lead everyone to a reflection not only on the opportunity - on this, of course, in this case we all agree - but also on the consequences of what we are going to do. It impresses me that we often find ourselves all constitutionalists. This reflection was also given to me by the recent story of vaccinations and of the Covid, in which even qualified subjects interpreted the constitutional norms as if in our legal system it was legitimate to exercise such an activity. I recall that in Italy no one can interpret the rule and therefore its conformity with the Constitution, except the Constitutional Court. This precept is so binding that not even a judge can rule on the constitutionality or not of a rule, in fact in case of importance that he should consider founded, the judge at most could argue that this exception is not manifestly unfounded, suspend the judgment and refer everything back to the Constitutional Court. I would like to highlight all this, although it is well known to the Members of this House, in order to make everyone aware of the importance of the step we are taking today. I am speaking of the beginning because we know very well that the amendment of the Constitution is such an important and binding procedure that it requires three further steps in this House and then all the other formalities we know. The path that has formally begun in the Commission is the most expression of the passage in this House and therefore in the step that we are about to take today. The amendment it proposes to introduce concerns Article 9 of our Constitution, to which it is intended to add a paragraph in which it is envisaged to include environmental protection with the words: The Republic protects the environment and the ecosystem, protects biodiversity and animals, promotes sustainable development, including in the interests of future generations. I want to point out that the Constitution, in my opinion, should be a list of principles and not so much of rules, because those principles and rights expressly mentioned in the Constitution would obviously become more valuable than all others. Inserting the reference to environmental protection and extrapolating this single part, as at that point it would be possible and legitimate to do, from what should instead mean the combined provision of the entire article means to cause risks to our legal system also of mummification, for example, of the many public works that are being carried out. In fact, if we considered only this part and did not consider instead the whole formula of the article, which provides to create this symbiosis and this relationship between man and the environment, aimed at satisfying, enhancing and achieving the interest of future generations, in my opinion we would run the risk of introducing an obstacle, rather than an element of protection and development. I want to make this clear, because in my opinion too often an element that is part of our legal system is underestimated. In our legal system, it is provided that, if there is an interpretative doubt about a rule, the criterion of ratio laws should be used, which requires that, in the interpretation of a rule, account should be taken of the intentions of the legislator and therefore, of course, of all of us. Our intentions are to protect the environment, to improve the symbiosis between man and nature and to create the basis for sustainable development, but obviously they are not to mummify everything. I would like to make this clear, because in the speech of some of my colleagues, in my opinion, there has been a risk of confusion. In fact, they were introduced into the discussion of the elements, which obviously were not so relevant to it. I am therefore speaking as a legislator and a senator who will be able to approve this amendment to the Constitution, which he hoped would be part of the Commission's territory, environment, environmental goods, as a resident of a national park and as mayor of a municipality seat of national park. It is therefore clear that, without perhaps using the triumphalist tones of some of my colleagues, it is nevertheless an important step for me, which we are going to take in the right direction, in order to protect our common home, which, on the other hand, is increasingly threatened by activities that I think are irresponsible. However, I would like to point out that these activities are not committed by us, that is by all Italians and by the Country Italy system and not even by the Country Europe system. In fact, if we go to see which are the 120 rivers that place the most plastic in the oceans - I only take it as an example, in my view legitimate, and as a demonstration of the irresponsibility of mankind - we would find only one in Europe and clearly not in the very first positions. So, in my opinion, this is a step in the right direction, which demonstrates our sensitivity to the environment, which obviously is not only in the legislator, but also in our fellow citizens, because of examples of virtuous behaviour in our system we could find many, not only in relation to the inputs of plastic, but also to the differentiated collection, to those virtuous behaviors that we go to adopt daily in our daily life and also to the way in which we prepare to use the resources that will come from the recovery plan. So we can find many examples, but what I want to highlight now, in this debate, is that our intention is not to mummify everything, which would obviously also be contrary to the interests of future generations, mentioned in the second part of Article 9. Instead, we want to ensure that this future interest, this public interest, is reconciled with environmental protection. I would remind you that the first 12 articles of the Constitution are so-called binding articles and introduce principles that are superordained to all other norms of a hierarchically inferior nature, for the system of sources of law, which would therefore be conditioned by what is expressly provided for in these first 12 articles. Clearly, Article 9 is one of those which lists inviolable rights, and I believe that this could prove to be a vulnus, because we know very well that, by definition shared and almost unanimous, we are the home of law. This is because many of the modern legal systems and certainly ours are based on Roman law, which has evidently been a forerunner in the matter of rights and which is clearly still a basis for our legislative system, which was then strongly influenced also by the Napoleonic order. So our legal system, unlike the Anglo-Saxon ones, is based on civil law, because the rule is at the basis of the legal order and there is no mention of binding precedents, so much so that the ruling of a judge by us applies only to the parties involved. This, however, however general principle and shared by all, is not really true because, in the event of a judgment going to cover a public work, obviously the consequences - interest not, but the consequences yes - would unfortunately fall in the interest of many other subjects too. It is therefore clear that, in the introduction of such an important amendment, we must also assess the consequences that it would have on our legal system, because, as I said before, the rules must be interpreted not only for their literal meaning, but also for their relationship with our basic legal system and, therefore, with our Constitution. To show who should listen to us now how complicated it is, I point out that interpretation can be divided according to the subject that performs it (there are therefore different ways of interpretation: judicial, authentic and doctrinal) and, then, to the literal meaning of the norm. What we should introduce with this debate is something that would be effective in the judicial interpretation, which is probably more important. In fact, doctrinal interpretation is a mere logical exercise, while authentic interpretation does not require interpretation because it is the legislator himself who explicitly says what the previously adopted rules mean. What is important now is to introduce an element that allows a possible judge to rule on this to understand that the intention of this assembly is not to extrapolate a single element of a rule (i.e. protection), on which we all agree, but to highlight the fact that this protection must take place in a symbiosis of development of man and the environment according to future generations. It is clear, therefore, that this intervention of mine hopes that in the evaluation that should possibly exist in the future we will take into account that our aim is to make the country grow and not stop all the procedures in place because, obviously, this would be against the current and even future interests of our generation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u26	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, in recent decades our planet has continued to undergo a process of environmental degradation due to our activities, namely human, human and human activities. This is an increasingly difficult process to govern. Extremely urgent actions and comprehensive environmental policies are certainly needed, but a biosphereal consciousness is also needed. The emergence of awareness of the consequences of the current (traditional) economic model on ecological systems and their balance has over time developed a network of organic policies aimed at protecting the environment. Already since the years Ninety years ago, the international community realized the increasingly urgent need to launch a global strategy to review economic and social models in a systemic, sustainable, equitable and inclusive way. Since the 1992 Rio de Janeiro Conference, we have learned that the ethical and scientific, technical, economic, social and cultural dimensions are interconnected and in relation to each other and characterize the complex and systemic concept of the environment, necessarily implying the identification of solutions and choices of a constitutional level. In fact, the complex problems we face (protection of biodiversity, climate change, pandemics and poverty - all related issues - and the care of every living being on this planet) are solved by the identification of principles that must guide the method and the Constitutions are the place where these principles can be transposed and defined. The right to the environment has for years been at the heart of a lively debate at global level and is explicitly protected already within numerous Community directives, such as the new European Constitutional Charter and also most of the Constitutions of the Member States of the European Union and also of other States around the world. To date we have 193 Constitutions and 149 contain rules that define the principles and values for environmental protection. Our Constitution does not define the concept of environmental good, nor does it contain any direct reference to situations related to the need of the individual and the community to live in an intact and healthy environment. Probably because at the time, when it was elaborated, culture or, we can say, awareness of the complex issues related to the exploitation of the natural capital of ecosystem services related to pollution of environmental matrixes, was not yet there. [[Brusio]] That's a good point...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u28	Colleagues, the day is good. It must not be difficult to allow my colleague to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u29	THE ABBATE (M5S). In the context of Italian jurisprudence, an initial definition of the environment can be found in the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 210 of 22 October 1987, in which this is constituted as a fundamental right of the person and fundamental interest of the community that unites the conservation, rational management and improvement of natural conditions, therefore of air, water, soil and all other components, the existence and preservation of genetic, terrestrial and marine heritage, and of all the animal and plant species that live in it in the natural state. The case law has therefore filled the legislative gap at the constitutional level. The absence of explicit recognition of the right to the environment, as the fundamental principle of our legal system, has led us in Movimento 5 Stars to welcome with great enthusiasm and to participate personally in the amendment of our Constitution. Protecting the environment and animals is a value in itself: promoting a social and economic system that can finally deal with nature, observing its long forgotten laws in order to safeguard the network of life and the only planet we have. Environment in the Constitution is a condition and a precondition for the protection to be concrete and fair for present and future generations and imposes not only rights, but duties. In the 5 Star Movement, we will continue our mission. Ecological transition? Yes, but the real one, that of Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen when he spoke to us, as early as 1969, about flows of matter and energy and told us that matter was important and it was not necessary to burn it. That of Barry Commoner with his laws of ecology, when he told us that nothing is free, everything will be paid sooner or later. We really have to deal with nature. The true ecological transition is only the beginning and the first step, but then we will have to work together as a single community with what is called the green new deal, which is nothing more than this. I would like to thank my colleagues Gianluca Perilli, Alessandra Maiorino and all those who have contributed to achieving this result today. We're here. We of Movimento 5 Stars are there and we will always be there because the 5 stars shine and have always shone for the protection and protection of our environment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u30	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u31	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken today and all those with whom we have worked intensively for months in the Commission and in the restricted committee to achieve this result. Today is a day when politics can be proud, because it has given the best of itself, putting aside divisions and fences and constantly seeking a path that allows us to put the common good at the centre, and so we have done. Today it is a solemn day that crowns this determined will, but above all it is a solemn day because we are preparing to amend for the first time that part of our fundamental Charter in which the founding principles of our Republic and of our collective being are laid down. We do this by coming from different paths, which however have all led to the same outcome: the need to recognize the environment as the indispensable right of the person and therefore the duty of the Republic to protect him, even in the interest of those who will live on this planet after us, the future generations. Again, therefore, a heartfelt thanks to all the colleagues on all political sides. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u33	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u34	Mr President, I would just like to announce that I withdraw Amendments 1,202, 1,207, 1,209 and 1,210, while maintaining Amendment 2.0,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u35	Mr President, with regard to Amendments Nos 1,203 and 1,204, the reasoning that I want to bring to the attention of my fellow senators is simply this: with Amendment No 1,203 we ask to replace the words: 'the law of the State regulates the ways and forms of animal protection' by the following: 'in the forms and in the ways governed by the law of the State'. With the next amendment, we call for the deletion of the words: 'the law of the State regulates the ways and forms of animal protection', simply because it is a superfluous clarification, because the State already regulates the protection of animals with precise laws. I refer to a number of references: for example, Law No 189 of 20 July 2004 on the prohibition of maltreatment of animals, which introduced Title IX-a in the Criminal Code. [[Brusio. References by the President]] Then there are other rules that provide punishments such as imprisonment or fines for other offences such as the crime of killing animals for cruelty and without necessity or abuse of animals. These rules also provide for the prohibition of shows and demonstrations, the punishment of behaviors that go to the eviction and mistreating of animals, the prohibition of fighting between animals and the killing of animals. These are rules already contained in the laws of the State and which protect animals. We have tabled the amendment not only because it is superfluous to repeat this, but also because we are afraid that there will be a desire to get out of the window what has not passed through the door, that is, that almost radical principle of animal protection whatever, which could lead to unpredictable developments. I am thinking in particular of breeding, wildlife and hunting activities. Mr President, when we say that we are in favour of protecting the environment in the Constitution from this point of view, we do not have a star to shine. We have the environment in our DNA, because we are a patriotic party, the party of the Homeland, which means the land of the fathers. From this point of view we have the utmost respect for the environment. When we talk about the amendment of Article 1 to protect the environment and biodiversity and ecosystems, even in the interests of future generations, we agree because, from this point of view, when we talk about ecosystems, we are talking about an overall system, ranging from man, the environment, animals and living beings. On the other hand, we are extremely concerned about the second part of which we are calling for the repeal. I have put these thoughts to the attention of the House precisely so that there can be convergence towards a vote in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u36	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u37	Mr President, we are calling for the withdrawal of all amendments to Article 1, with the exception of Amendments 1,203, 1,204 and 1,205, for which the opinion is negative. Mr President, I would also like to say that the opinion on amendments 2.0,200 and 2.0,201 is in favour if a proposal for a technical rewording is accepted, in the sense of replacing Article 9 of the text with Article 9 of the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u38	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u39	Senator Maiorino, as regards the proposed reformulation, we will examine it when examining the additional amendments to Article 2. In the meantime, I understand that the call for the withdrawal of amendments to Article 1 is not accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u42	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in fact, the call for withdrawal is partially accepted, because we withdraw Amendments 1,206, 1,208. We also withdraw amendment 2.0.202, precisely because the rapporteur was prepared to accept the very important amendment 2.0.200, to which we add the signatures of all the members of our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u43	Amendments 1,200, 1,201 and 1,202 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,203, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,204, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, identical to amendment 1,205, tabled by Senator Abate. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,206 to 1,210 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendment 2,200 was tabled, which was subsequently withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u46	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I would just like to point out that I voted against the vote on Article 1 by mistake, but in fact I wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u47	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 2. On Amendments 2.0,200 and 2.0,201, a request for rewording had been made by the rapporteur. I would ask the presenters whether they intend to accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u48	Mr President, I welcome you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u49	Mr President, I welcome you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u50	I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u51	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u52	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.200 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators, identical to amendment 2.0.201 (text 2), tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.202 has been withdrawn. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u55	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, 18-year-old Saman Abbas of Pakistani origin, residing with her family in Novellara, in the province of Reggio Emilia, has been missing for over a month. For forty days there has been no news of her. The testimonies acquired in these days by the investigators are not at all comforting and everything now suggests that it has been suppressed by the members of his own family. That's for refusing to accept her parents' arranged marriage. This would not be the first case of this kind, since already in 2006 a 20-year-old Pakistani woman from Sarezzo, Hina Saleem, and in 2018 a 25-year-old Pakistani woman from Brescia, Sana Cheema, had been killed by family members because they were too westernized and did not want to impose on their private sentimental life. They are facts that must make us reflect on the condition of Islamic women in Italy, victims of extremism that, in the name of a religion, take away their dignity and often their life. That is why I would like to hear the voice of all the women in this House. [[Applause]] , just as we, the women of the League, unjustly accused of using the case, when in reality the will is only to raise public awareness and Parliament on absolutely unresolved issues, despite the claims by a left that sees an integration where in reality there is and seems to see no behaviour that has nothing to do with true integration. Beyond that, I ask whether the Government is aware of the extent of the phenomenon of forced marriages and the violence associated with them in the event of the refusal of girls, mostly minors, victims of such abuse; and what is being done and what is being done in the matter, in order to control and confine such incidents. It remains urgent, as proposed by the Commission on Human Rights, to set up a National Observatory to monitor and analyse the phenomenon and other forms of child violence, such as genital mutilation, forced labour and slavery, and to take measures against those who organise travels aimed at forced and early marriages. Moreover, it is urgent to promote a campaign of awareness throughout the national territory regarding the problem of combined marriages for girls of foreign nationality, considering that in Italy forced marriage is a crime, as well as on the rights of women guaranteed by Italian legislation at schools, places of worship, associations present on the territory, places of aggregation, local institutions and media. All this is urgent in order to prevent tragic events such as these from happening again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u58	ROMAGNOLI (M5S). Mr President, on 2 June we all participated in the famous and very important Feast of the Republic, which was celebrated at all the various monuments to the fallen of Italy. These were very exciting moments. I took part personally in the party in Ancona, and all the various institutions were present. The participation of citizens is very important, as are the recognition given to the various personalities present. However, I have pointed out that, while managers and directors of the health sector have rightly been awarded, which have been a key sector especially in the past year, no award has been given to operators. Then I would like, here in the Senate Chamber, which I consider to be of primary importance, simply to thank all the socio-health workers, nurses, therapists, psychologists and doctors, who have helped us within each structure, risking our safety to give our lives, our health a chance. I truly thank them from the heart for their role and for knowing that those awards, in my heart and in the heart of many of us, are directed to their work which was undoubtedly indispensable in order to avoid the absolute catastrophe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u61	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, today, the epic World Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, is celebrating World Ocean Day. It is an opportunity to reflect on the benefits of the oceans and on the individual and collective duty to interact with the oceans in a sustainable way to meet current needs, without compromising those of future generations. Oceans are the largest lung on the planet - they produce 50 percent of oxygen and absorb 30 percent of man's carbon dioxide. This mitigates the impact of global warming, but acidifies water, threatening marine biodiversity. 50 percent of coral reefs are now destroyed. They provide us with food, employing 40 million people, but the impact of intensive fishing is catastrophic: with 90% of the large fish stocks exhausted, we are taking more from the ocean than can be reconstituted. On the other hand, we dump waste; plastic pollution is everywhere. Then, due to climate change, ocean levels increase, with recent upward estimates, threatening the survival of coastal communities. The theme of the celebration of 2021 is "The ocean: life and livelihoods" within a decade of challenges to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goal 14, "Life under water" in order to sustainably conserve and use oceans, seas and marine resources by 2030. To this end, the 30x30 target would be desirable: at least 30% of the total oceans protected by 2030. To protect and preserve the ocean, we need to create a new balance, based on the understanding of the ocean and the way humanity relates to it. We need to build an inclusive, innovative and informed connection with the ocean. [[Applause]] ; a connection welded by concrete, individual and collective acts. It is a concrete act that we senators can soon conclude and complete the process of the law "save" for the recovery of waste at sea and for the circular economy, aimed at not dispersing waste in the sea. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u64	ANGRISANI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you all know the Sarno River and the environmental disaster that the citizens of its basin are experiencing. Well, this one you see in the picture is a bottle of water "Sarnella," the water that causes cancer to the population and kills the flora and fauna present in the river. Don't worry: it is not for sale and is not bottled, but it represents the awareness campaign created by some associations to bring the problem of the pollution of Sarno to the national spotlight through the brand represented by the water Sarnella. The question of the pollution of Sarno is a long-standing one, which has seen the interest of various legislators and many administrations, also the subject of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. To date little or nothing has unfortunately changed. Sarno is an environmental theme, but also a healthy one: chemicals present in polluted waters are particularly dangerous for human health and for the survival of river flora and fauna. The water that is used by plants, animals and man comes mainly from rivers. In fact, epidemiological investigations have shown that the pathologies found have two main transmission vehicles: aerosolitic drops and the direct and indirect ingestion of river water. We have to act and we have to act quickly. Last year, after the lockdown, it took only a few days to loosen the restrictive measures to catapult us back into an environmental nightmare, made of illegal landfills and illegal spills. All this is the responsibility of some companies in the production sector - on the one hand - but - on the other - it is also the fault of the public administration. Environmental protection cannot be without the construction and completion of the sewage system, for which Campania pays millions of euros each year for infringement procedures in Europe. The inadequacy and bureaucratic and administrative slowness of the Region delay the restoration work of the Sarno. Therefore, I consider it useful to consider the possibility of bringing the Sarno river back to the sites of national interest, in order to be able to take management again at the national level of this problem. A few weeks ago, at the initiative of some local associations, there was a demonstration in Nocera inferiore and the cry of sorrow of the protesters, whose voice I bring here in the Senate Chamber, cannot remain unheard. The associations promoting this environmental battle have promoted a provocative commercial that advertises the brand of water Sarnella. The environmental damage and poisoning of the waters of Sarno are a daily attack on public health. Dear colleagues, I invite you to come to Campania to admire the clear water of the river Sarno at the springs in my city; water, which after a few hundred meters, becomes an environmental disaster. We need to reflect on this, on the fact that the incidence of certain cancers in this area is above average. Kilometers of bathing beaches could be a tourist resource at this time of socio-economic crisis. We do not leave the associations and citizens alone in this fight and, in addition to welcoming awareness-raising initiatives, such as water initiatives Sarnella, we must actively work to change the course of events. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u67	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, on 14 August 2018 the Morandi Bridge collapsed, causing 43 victims, a series of enormous economic damage to the lives of so many people in Genoa and, in general, creating serious damage to the country. During these three years, there has been talk of punishing those who had responsibilities. The responsibilities have largely emerged; even a book, written by the journalist de "Il Sole 24 Ore" has come out, Laura Galvagni. It was pointed out that the maintenance done by Autostrade for Italy (Aspi) was far below what was already required in writing. Then the results were seen. The money saved on maintenance became, by one verse, dividing into shareholders' pockets and, for another, death for those who were on the bridge that day. Now we are talking, without any parliamentary involvement of any kind, of an operation for which Cassa Depositi e Prestiti would draw out for the direct and indirect benefit - but above all direct - of Atlantia, i.e. the Benetton family mainly, about 21 billion, when, using the possibility of withdrawal provided for in article 9- bis of the single convention, it could be spent 13. This would be the case if the courts were always wronged to the State and always right to Autostrade for Italy, also because of the small problems - I apologise for the irony in such a thing - that have manifested themselves with regard to maintenance. On this, in addition to an explanation by the Government, the answer to questions submitted by me, Senator D'Alfonso, President of the Finance Commission, and several other Senators of the Democratic Party Group, Senator Lannotti and others, would still be necessary. Therefore, I urge the Government to communicate in this regard, also because the voice of Egle Posetti, chairman of the Committee of the Family members of the victims of the collapse of the bridge, has been raised on this matter, which has made a very eloquent statement of the kind: with this affair our family members are killed a second time. I think, at least, an explanation is necessary. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u70	PAPATHEU (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I join, first of all as a member of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, but also as a woman of the Forza Italia Parliamentary Group, which I represent here today, in the mourning that our country must unfortunately celebrate, in the face of yet another case that has occurred. I like to say that we are all Saman, as are all Italians close to the victims of such events now sadly known. I am referring to minors who are sold by their families for business, to bring residence visas and permits into dowry and suffer from different practices, which we all know, like the infibulation, perpetrated still today by those families. As a member of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, with my president, Senator Valente, I witnessed daily testimonies during the hearings of family doctors and health professionals who denounce this practice, also highlighting that families even bring their children to their countries to be infiltrated and then bring them back candidly here in Italy, so as not to take any risk. What I would really like to ask with a loud voice today is that the wall of silence that stands around such episodes falls, because their denunciation must start from the neighbors, from the families and from anyone who can do so, because in Italy such practices are forbidden. And it must be done urgently, because every omission is a presupposition of the future death at the hands of their family members of poor girls who are still being forced to marry people of twenty, thirty or forty years older than them, in the respect of the religion they claim to have to respect. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u71	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-333.ana.u72	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 9 June, at 9.15 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.47.
