ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2394. The rapporteur, Senator Valente, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure before the House this morning contains urgent measures to ensure the safety of public work and private work, by extending the scope of the Covid-19 green certification and strengthening the screening system. Needless to say, we would have liked to discuss it and approve it in the presence of another epidemiological context. This morning, however, we cannot ignore today's figures, which again see more than 100,000 infected and the resumption of the pandemic: this kind of pandemic evolution inevitably influenced the debate in the first Commission. Nevertheless, I believe that we have done a good job, which I want to take into account. Before doing so in a timely manner, article by article, I would also like to thank the offices, which have supported us in long and difficult weeks, but also and above all the Government for their valuable support, particularly the Secretary of State Accoto, who is here with us, undersecretary Bergamini, undersecretary Sileri and above all Minister D'Incà, who coordinated our work: thank you very much to everyone. Needless to say, we have tried to work with the objective of not adopting the general obligation of vaccination - this was a clear starting point for all - but extending the use of the green pass with a complex measure, but that I feel to define as a whole balanced and, for this very reason, in my opinion absolutely acceptable, that today we are going to convert to law. I try to take the measure into account, article by article. Articles 1 to 3 make changes to the text of Decree-Law No 52 of 2021, in order to provide, in the period from 15 October to 31 December 2021, the obligation to possess and exhibit, on request, a Covid-19 green certificate to access workplaces, both in the public and private sectors of work. In particular, Article 1 concerns civil servants and other persons engaged in their work, training or voluntary work in public administrations, while Article 3 concerns workers in the private sector. The decree-law provides, both in the field of public and private work, the exemption from the possession of the green certificate for the subjects of which there is evidence of a contra-indication relative to vaccination against the Covid. In the event that a non-free worker informs that he does not have the green certificate or that he is deprived of it at the time of access to the workplace, the person shall be considered as unjustified, until such certification is submitted and in any case not later than 31 December 2021, without disciplinary consequences and with the right to maintain the employment relationship, but with the suspension of remuneration or other compensation. These rules have also been extended to operators of the Universal Civil Service, who serve with accredited public bodies. The rules laid down for the public and private sectors are to a very large extent identical. It is an exception, as we know, to the possibility, for private enterprises with less than 15 employees, to temporarily replace workers who cannot carry out the service, as they are not fulfilling the obligation of possession or performance at the request of a Covid green certificate. With an amendment in the Commission, the limit on replacement was raised to ten working days, renewable even several times until 31 December. On the other hand, with regard to the expiry of the current certificate, consequences were excluded for workers whose green pass expires on a day-to-day basis, during working hours, which can therefore end the shift which has already begun without sanctions of any kind. Moreover, during the examination in the Commission, a number of issues emerged from all political forces on the subject of verification. The decree in fact previews that it is to the employer the definition of the operating modalities for the verification of the green pass, as well as for their conduct. First of all, in order to strengthen these steps with a change, it was intended to ensure adequate communication of these arrangements to workers, as well as, as regards the workers being administered, it was clear that the verification of compliance with the requirements is the responsibility of the user, while it is the responsibility of the administrator to give appropriate information to the workers. Above all, with the aim of simplifying the checks, it has been foreseen that workers, both in the public and in the private, may request to deliver to their employer a copy of their green certification, thus exempting them from subsequent checks, of course until the end of the same. Article 2, through a novella to Decree-Law 22 April 2021, n. 52, provides that judges also honorary - and from now also popular judges - must possess and exhibit green certifications in order to be able to access the judicial offices. The absence from the office resulting from the lack or lack of performance of the certification is considered unjustified, with the right to the retention of the employment relationship, but without remuneration, or other compensation or emolument. In addition, until the end of the state of emergency, the Commission has always provided for compatibility for certain health professions between the employment relationship with the National Health Service and other employment relationships, provided that outside working time and within a maximum weekly limit of four hours. Article 4 provides for urgent measures for the administration of rapid antigen tests. In particular, it extends from 30 November to 31 December 2021 the administration at low prices of rapid antigen tests, establishing the obligation, for pharmacies and for all health facilities authorised by the Regions to carry out such tests, to apply the price of heat in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Special Commissioner for Emergency Covid-19. The Commission has also included the provision for information campaigns in favour of vaccines. Article 5 introduces amendments to Article 9 of the aforementioned Decree-Law No 52 concerning the general rules for green certifications. Article 6 regulates the use of the sums transferred to Sport and Salute SpA for the payment of allowances for sports staff related to the emergency Covid-19 and not used. Article 7 transfers to the Ministry of Health the contact center service for the acquisition of the green certifications Covid-19, allocating to this purpose an additional funding of 3 million euros. Finally, Article 8 stipulates that on 30 September 2021 the Scientific and Technical Committee shall deliver its opinion on the measures for distance, capacity and protection in the places where cultural, sporting, social and recreational activities take place. It has also been foreseen that the provisions for educational activities for children's theatre, as regards the use of the green pass, will apply for teaching activities. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to add on the sidelines a consideration of a more strictly political sense. The measure under consideration is the result of a complex mediation made by the Government and has understandably raised uncertainties and also fears about the application of the innovations introduced. It was right for Parliament and the Government to pay attention to those alarms, and in some cases we have also managed to provide answers and solutions which I think are satisfactory. However, it has only been possible to do this on the basis of a given reality and for this I would like to thank all the composite majority, but also the oppositions for the significant and valuable contribution they have made. In this case - I want to say clearly - it really was the Italians who made the difference through vaccines and, above all, the respect of others and the rules given until today. It is the Italians, in a very large majority, who have understood that vaccine and green passes are the only tools with which to return to design the future of Italy (a future even better than what was thought only two years ago). All this proves that it is not a question of limitation and discrimination of the freedom of citizens outside the rule of law and, even more so, that it is not even a way of surreptitiously controlling the lives of our fellow citizens, as unfortunately I have heard in some of the hearings that we have held. Green certification is demonstrating its effectiveness of prevention in reality, including workplace prevention. This is the path that Italy, but also many other democratic countries have taken and probably other countries will undertake. The green pass is above all a tool that has been regulated seeking and finding a balance between the interests of workers and the interests of the company, between the right to work, security and the protection of personal data. It is, of course, a question of different interests and rights, but never should a democracy contrast. It is on this ground - and not on that of ideological constructions that hide the reality of the facts - that the democratic level of the institutions of a country is measured for us, even in times of greatest stress and difficulty, as is clearly what we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u6	I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. He asked Senator Ciampolillo to explain it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u7	Mr President, with my colleague Senator Martelli we have tabled the question for a preliminary ruling QP1 concerning the conversion of Decree-Law No 127 of 2021. It is stressed in the premise that the decree-law in question introduces measures of extraordinary necessity and urgency in relation to the Covid emergency in the workplace, extending the need to exhibit the green certificate to all public and private workplaces, also identifying a system of controls and sanctions, controls that can be implemented as an alternative to the scan of the certificates carried out by the subjects in charge through the use of the application C19, also with special software or platforms. In this regard, there are numerous critical issues, some already highlighted during the conversion of Decree-Law No 111 of 2021 that will be repeated, others will shortly be raised for the first time. First of all, a note from the European Commission already known to this House, which highlighted how the use of the EU certificate issued pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2021/953 for domestic purposes, or other than those provided for in the Regulation, Member States can actually use the European Union's Covid digital certificate for national purposes, but they are required to provide a legal basis in national law. Such national law must respect Union law on data protection and the principles of effectiveness, necessity and proportionality. In this respect, the decree to be converted today is objectively inadequate with regard to the principles of proportionality and effectiveness. The measure, which is born to protect workers and to prevent the spread of contagion, does not in fact differentiate on the basis of the specific risk of contagion to which a worker is subject and, as a result, does not appear proportionate a provision that places on the same level subject to the same risk, workers whose duties inevitably involve close contacts with other persons and those who, by way of example, work outdoors in such large structures, such as sheds, where the distance is inherent in the organization of the company, or individually in offices without contact with the public. Differentiating measures by risk categories is not only a rule of common sense and compliance with the Union principle of proportionality, but is also essential to allow the workload of pharmacies and buffer points to be decongested, which are currently overburdened to such an extent as to create an objective difficulty for users who need to provide evidence of the diagnostic examination every two days. As far as the effectiveness of the measure is concerned, allowing the possibility of sample control obviously reduces the health purpose of the measure, since workers who know that they are not subject to verification at the time of entry could very well enter by accepting the risk of a sanction while not having the Covid certificate. If the aim of the health measure is to prevent the spread of the infection, the sample control does not meet the criterion of effectiveness and if it is added that among workers holding the Covid certificate there are vaccinated subjects not tested in the last 48 hours, the risk of infection tends to increase even more, given that the principle - made by the Council of Europe also in paragraph 8 of Resolution 2383/21 - that the vaccinated person (as potentially infectious) cannot be exempt from the burden of presenting a recent test of negativity to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. This would also allow full compliance with EU Directive 54/2000 on the protection of workers from biological agents, including the aforementioned virus since 2020. The European Commission's note then focuses on aspects relating to the protection of personal data, explaining how national legislation cannot extend the right to request the performance of the Covid certification to entities other than those identified by the last paragraph of Article 10 of EU Regulation 953/2021 (subjects authorised, in the "domestic" area, to health checks are, for example, the NAS departments of the Carabinieri and certainly not private individuals such as employers). In this note it is written that the internal legislation must comply with Union law on data protection and not exclusively with the GDPR. Therefore, Article 10 (3) of Regulation (EU) 953/2021, as a provision of Union law on the protection of personal data, must certainly be included among the rules laid down for the protection of privacy, whose compliance - as clarified by the Commission - is necessary to allow domestic uses of Covid certificates. Another critical profile, already highlighted in the conversion of Decree-Law No 111 of 2021, was that inherent to the software platform for the control of the Covid certificates in use at schools, where the use of tax codes to verify the possession of a valid certificate has allowed managers to implicitly infer information that the EU Regulation 953/2021 prevents to share, in particular those concerning the state of vaccination. The same risk arises with the extension of this control mode in all areas of work, also because the platform checks the status of the worker's certificate through their tax code and it is therefore unlikely that this process will not end up collecting and storing data, a practice that the aforementioned EU regulation prohibits. In this regard, it seems that a real archive of the data on vaccination, healing and test results has been set up at Sogei, as confirmed by Beppe Grillo in a recent interview on the Daily Fact. It is hoped that the House will not escape the way the statements made leave open questions, such as the linking of the servers of the said platform, who manages them and to what information such subjects would have access to. These are doubts which should certainly be resolved before the introduction of legislation into national law, given the contrasts with European legislation which only allows applications operating in read-only mode of the QR code. In this regard, also the use of the application C19 determines criticality when it acquires the QR code both because the data can be easily captured by the operator with, for example, screenshots and reading with Foreign Apps that access the entire dataset of the code QR, and because - you learn - the connection to the Network is necessary to verify the authenticity of the code. This inevitably implies a data exchange with a remote server and a database. This practice is deemed to be in breach of the last paragraph of Article 10 (3) of EU Regulation 953/2021, where it provides that: The personal data consulted pursuant to this paragraph shall not be retained. Moreover, that verification of the authenticity of certificates should not require remote access to a server is expressly provided for in Article 3 (2) of the above Regulation, which provides: These certificates are easy to use and contain an interoperable barcode to verify their authenticity, validity and integrity. Therefore, the authenticity of the certificate is contained in the QR code and does not need to be verified online by querying a remote database. In this case, consent should be given to the dataset by the data subject. As anticipated by the letter of the European Commission's Justice Directorate, it is clear that the domestic use of the Covid certificates is only permitted if they comply with the rules governing the protection of personal data and not if there has been a violation of the latter or the violation is no longer possible to remedy (as has happened: school managers now aware of which employees are vaccinated and which not, the data of the QR codes are stored in databases contained in servers not exactly localized, their reading allowed with App freeware available on-line that extract the entire dataset of the information contained in them, the use of the certifications Covid in ways that do not comply with EU regulations 679/16 and 953/21, Article 10, paragraph 3, must be immediately interrupted, preventing them from continuing in the field of work checks affected and characterized by such a degree of illegality. If this method of control is therefore not legitimate, it is not even allowed to vote in favour of the conversion of a decree-law authorising the use of such technologies, which would inevitably end up end up supporting a system of personal data collection in breach of the relevant rules. For these reasons and for all the others already expressed in narrative we ask the Senate not to proceed to the examination of Decree-Law no. 127 of 2021. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u8	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question for no more than ten minutes. Since no one intends to intervene, pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli for a preliminary ruling. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u9	Mr President, I am waiting for this House to calm down, otherwise no one will listen to me. You tell me, President, if the buzz is acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u10	I invite you to begin. The Members who are moving away now will do so in a consonant way to allow you to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u11	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the League, during its work in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the conversion of the decree-law before the House today, has tabled several improvements to the text. I must say with regret that the Government has had a lack of willingness. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u12	Colleagues, I renew Senator Grassi's invitation. Anyone who has to go away, do so in silence. Anyone who stays in this Chamber will listen to the speech. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u13	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you. With regret we found that, during the work, the Government showed little, if not non-existent, willingness to accept the amendments. I am not going to bore the House with an analytical review of the League's proposals. I shall focus in particular on two amendments. The first is to allow the green pass to be granted to those who are able to prove that they have contracted, even in asymptomatic form, the Covid-19. The rationale for this amendment is simple and is based on articles published in several reviews and on high ranking magazines, such as Nature, for example. Science has shown that those who contract the infection, even if in asymptomatic form (so they do not notice and have no way to report it to the health system), develop an antibody memory comparable to that resulting from the outcome of the vaccine. The scientific debate is open on the comparison of the immune memory that derives from it, but one fact is certain: beyond any qualitative and quantitative evaluation, even the asymptomatic healed have an appropriate level of defense. There is therefore no reason to deny the granting of green certification, perhaps providing for a shorter duration and asking for a strengthening of protection through vaccination (because, for intellectual honesty, it must be said that on "Nature" it is also mentioned the need to provide for vaccination of subjects who have already contracted the infection). The point is that the Government, on this amendment, has expressed a negative granitic opinion and the amendment has not been approved. It is not rational, it is not consistent with the ratio and logic of the green pass. What is our goal? The aim is to induce vaccination, so that we can leave this pandemic behind as soon as possible. Well, that's not all it is. The goal is also to stop the pandemic and the vaccinees are able to slow down the course of the disease, but so are those who have already contracted the infection. Therefore, from this point of view, the no of the Government seems completely incomprehensible to us, an expression of an attitude of closure towards any cooperation with Parliament. But there is something more, in my opinion even more serious, which strengthens our conviction that there is little willingness to dialogue with Parliament. In 2020 - and I would ask you to pay attention to this passage - the Constitutional Court, presided over by the current Minister of Justice, Professor Cartabia, issued a ruling concerning the extension of compensation for vaccine damages and blood products also to highly recommended vaccinations. Take good care: the sentence was not about anti-Covid-19 vaccinations. It was about another type of vaccination, a vaccination in use for years, to which the Italian State exerts a kind of pressure in favour of vaccination, by means of a strong recommendation to vaccination. Well, the Court, setting out a principle that I would dare to define by natural law, also in order to shorten my intervention (because the technical legal reasons are many and convincing, but it is not the case here to expose them), and enunciating the basic constitutional principles, said: when the state induces the population to vaccinate for the benefit of all, the costs that the individual must bear to the outcome of this health choice for the benefit of the community must fall on the community, that is to say on the state. [[Applause]] So, the Court said, when the vaccine is strongly recommended, the law that allows compensation for vaccine and blood-derived damage compared to compulsory vaccinations also applies. Now, none of us have any difficulty understanding that between an obligation tout court and the green pass the affinity is remarkable and certainly, with the green pass, we are beyond what can be called strongly recommended vaccine. We can talk, perhaps, about a highly recommended vaccine. And if the most contains the least, it is easy to understand that the decision of the Constitutional Court, presided over by a member of this Government, has already substantially introduced into our law the rule that those who will have damage to the outcome of these vaccines deserve to be compensated by the State. The standard is already in the system. [[Applause]] The rule is already in our system thanks to the intervention of the Constitutional Court. And I must not remind you of the value of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, even when they are manipulative, that is, able to innovate the order. Our amendment merely made clear what is already in our system. The provision, technically, was not a legislative source, because a provision is a legislative source when it introduces a new rule. When, on the other hand, the provision is merely reconnaissance, it cannot deserve the status of a legislative source. The Government gave a negative opinion on this amendment and the amendment was not voted on or, better, was voted against. Well, we consider this attitude particularly serious, and also shortsighted, because it shows, first of all, with regard to gravity, that this Government does not intend to maintain a relationship of loyal cooperation with its citizens, because obviously the Government's concern is to keep this rule hidden. The Government, that is, does not want the Italians to understand that, if they are vaccinated, for any damages it responds to the State. And it's shortsighted because, by concealing this rule, it doesn't guarantee trust in vaccination. So it is true that, in the immediate future, there may be a saving in expenditure, not by providing the required sums, but in the long run this saving will result in damage, because vaccination is slowed down, because disputes increase, because confidence in the state decreases. I therefore believe that the League is doing well, as it is doing, to urge the Government to re-establish a relationship of loyal cooperation with this Parliament and therefore with the Italian people whom this Parliament represents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u15	Mr President, senators and senators, despite the fact that the two years of pandemics just passed have destroyed and brought to their knees Italian companies that are world-class in many sectors, we are still here today debating a bill that has the consequence of hitting even more entrepreneurs and workers. To date, the situation is as follows: introducing the green pass obligation in the workplace and in employment relations has resulted in higher costs for businesses and workers themselves, as well as unclassifiable social damage for those who will be denied work. Let us be clear from the start: we are all in favour of evaluating every possible solution to combat the spread of the Covid-19 and we do not tolerate in any way that anyone points to us as those who have a opaque position on the contrast to the coronavirus. We are in favour of vaccines, we listen carefully to the scientific world, but at the same time we have the right and the duty to assess whether the instruments adopted by politics are useful to the country. That is why we are here today to express our concerns, which are born after a confrontation that in recent weeks we have done several times with workers, trade unions and the business world. We cannot fail to consider that companies, in so far as it is necessary to set up control measures for the reading of the green pass, and workers and workers who want to go back to the buffer, will now face major costs due to the current legislation. It is paradigmatic that on the subject the positions tendingly divergent of Confindustria and the various unions also find a meeting point. The cost of tampons, as pointed out by the National Union of Enterprises, will most likely be borne by the employer, given the difficulty in replacing employees without green passes, and it is common ground that such a burden can give the blow of grace to the thousands of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are the foundations of our country already in difficulty. The largest unions in our country, on the other hand, are of the same opinion and this is synonymous with the fact that the obligation, as it is now conceived, is liberticidal for both factions. To this is added the issue of unequal treatment between Italian workers and foreign workers, who are not subject to the same regulation. For example, we can consider that one in four truck drivers does not have a green pass, so it must remain stationary and often replaced by a foreign vehicle, the driver of which is exempted from the certificate thanks to the circular of the Ministers of Health and Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility of 14 October 2021. It is clear that the clients, even now while I am speaking, are talking abroad. As pointed out by all trade associations, including Confartigianato trasporti, the Government makes a double mistake: on the one hand, the anger of those who are penalized by this rule increases and, on the other hand, favours unfair competition from other States. A low blow for many, many Italian companies that, in a delicate phase like the one we are experiencing, have the right to live at a time when the institutions and politics make themselves available to them to facilitate an economic recovery that is breathed in the air, but it is still all to be realized. If it is unnecessary in this House to mention the many judgments of the European Court of Human Rights which establish equality of work at European level, it should be stressed, however, that Europe, always at the mouth of a considerable part of Parliament, sets out clearly the rights of workers and we do not read anywhere that of workers, men and women of a given country, can and indeed should be replaced with others from other countries. However, if the scientific basis that questions the validity of the green pass at the workplace is not enough for the representatives of the government, there is also an obvious basis that we could call constitutional. As has already been said and reiterated in this House and as my party's fellow senators have said, our Constitutional Charter has given Article 1 and Article 4 the value of work in the Italian Republic. This editorial choice does not merely correspond to a static numbering, but to a precise value attributed to the aforementioned articles by the constituent Fathers. Although the right to health is fundamental in the forms in which it is conceived by Article 32 of the Constitution itself, it is found very little of it in the founding principles of the State, which must deal with citizens' rights. If we are talking about citizens' rights, we must address the issue of the value of green passes within the more general right to health towards ourselves and others. As for the former one cannot be denied an important value of the green pass as it is an incontrovertible and scientific data the lesser incidence of pathological phenomena related to the Covid-19 in the vaccinated subjects. As for the second, however, scientific findings differing on the point of less viral load of the vaccinated than the point of absence of vaccination are found in the state. From this point of view it is therefore peacefully evident that the instrument of the green pass, as conceived, is not useful to protect others from themselves. With reference to the right to health, enshrined in Article 32, the constitutional choice and subsequently the legislative one, we have clearly gone in the direction of leaving to the freedom of the individual the right to the determination of his or her state of health, with reference to health treatments to the limit of what is identified by the Constitution in relation to the right to health, considered an indispensable right of the human being. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by speaking not so much as a senator, but as an entrepreneur who is well aware of the difficulties faced by a company every day. This is precisely why I have a lot of concerns about the law in our examination, which is likely to penalise and therefore discriminate against part of Italian workers and workers, putting into difficulty an economic and social fabric that is already in great difficulty today. That would be a serious and unforgivable gesture that we absolutely cannot do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u16	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the vaccination certificate or green pass, made compulsory as a necessary tool to reduce cases of lethality, to avoid transmission of the virus, to contain hospitalizations, to restart all activities - school, sports and recreational, such as cinema and theatre - is synonymous with the re-acquirement of freedom, freedom of movement and choice. All this happens with the green pass, guaranteeing the protection of the community. Moreover, the high number of vaccinations, thanks to the will of the majority of citizens, makes it possible to prevent further variations that we know to be another challenge to be overcome. On the other hand, the emergency in which we are still - unfortunately the contagions continue to rise, but fortunately much less deaths - requires, by definition, to be faced with emergency remedies (the word itself says so), such as the obligation of green passes in closed places, in workplaces - we are talking about the obligation at work - and wherever the virus can infect further. I too quote the Constitution and our constituent Fathers, who were far-sighted: in the last century they faced pandemic events such as Spanish and smallpox that caused countless deaths; they did not have what we now have, namely the vaccine, but they had already thought about health protection. The Constitution protects not only the health of the individual, therefore not only an individual right, but also the interest of the community. Is Article 1 more valuable at work or is health more valuable? There's no work without health. The phrase now known is that you do not save yourself, and that is all the more true in the case of the pandemic. Moreover, the community that protects itself has an added value, which is to protect those who cannot vaccinate for serious health reasons, therefore the principle of solidarity to protect the weakest. I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we must also protect those health workers who, in a way that has been undefended for a year and a half, have been in the lanes doing their work every day. [[Applause]] , and we must be aware and aware that through vaccination we also protect them. As we are seeing, the number of admissions to intensive care, albeit in a less important way than last year, increases. There is also another principle that I would like to talk to you about, that of reasonableness, which seems to have disappeared these days. Yes, because we have seen vandalism against health workers: destroying a U.S.A.S.A. machine is a shameful thing! Such vandalism, machines destroyed and attacks in the emergency room have nothing to do with reasonableness. Increases in cases of infection and hospitalizations, as you can see, are unfortunately also occurring in many other countries of Europe; it is a very big problem, but I must say that in these days it can be noticed even more in Trieste: increase in infections and increase in hospitalizations. Then why let it be said that it is done by virtue of freedom? Freedom for what? Freedom without people being helped? Do we have to leave it like this? Traders can't take it anymore; they suffered a lot, with the green pass they had the opportunity to reopen with security guarantees and they absolutely don't want us to go back. Here too, therefore, reasonableness is lacking; fortunately, I repeat that we have so many citizens who are reasonable and who have been vaccinated. Work is a constitutional right, of course, but if we do not lose our jobs, we must become healthy, I believe that we really are not there, so we must not risk that there may be cases of this kind. I have to say, it's good for the Viminale to set restrictions on the marches they're making. In this regard, we cannot organize a procession along a path but then take another path; we know that if we avoid the rules, in the end we pay the consequences. As I said, fortunately many citizens have shown reasonableness by accepting, knowingly and not supinously, the rules of civil life and collective good. We Members of this House must also give a signal: I am therefore pleased that we must have the green pass every time we enter Parliament, because we are giving an important signal and message to the whole population. We can't make laws for others and then turn them off. I am therefore convinced that this is a more than reasonable rule. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, I have to say that we have seen no green pass and no vax protesters smooth their hair by virtue of an ephemeral consensus, a political consensus that with data to the hand fails because finally reasonableness takes over. So, ladies and gentlemen, by virtue of another principle that is the responsibility I mentioned earlier, we must all try - as we are doing responsibly - to support this Government too to help those who have doubts and hesitate to vaccinate. We must all, knowingly, help those who have doubts, because it is permissible for us to have doubts, but that does not mean that we must abandon these people. We help those who hesitate and who also have health problems; let us help them to deal with health professionals. This is our duty. Let's not just help them say no. This is another degree of awareness that we must have. It is necessary, as many have done, to fulfil that ethical and moral duty - as our President of the Republic has well said, which every day gives us pearls of wisdom - to vaccinate; All of us must strive for this, by virtue of a freedom that must not be ephemeral and for ourselves, but must be of the community. In other European countries, less incisive in the rules, they are now resorting to obligation and a new lockdown. I think that having been so incisive in our case has paid a great deal. It is now up to all of us to try to use the rules and observe the rules, because it is important to do so. All the rules we are pursuing may seem discriminatory, but if we go and see - believe me - in the folds of all these rules, they are not discriminatory, because they take into account the value of the most important good we have, which is health. I repeat: there is another important value that seems to be contrasting, that of the economy and labour, but there would be no economy and there would be no work if we did not protect our health. Therefore, these measures, such as the mandatory green pass also in the workplace, with all the cautions and cares that must be there, are important for a great recovery of our country. We have other important challenges - you know very well - such as the implementation of the PNRR. Only through these moments will we be able to bring home those important measures that we have outlined in our projects. Only in this way will we really be able to overcome this challenge, which is global. Many countries would like to have the vaccine, but they do not have it, because unfortunately they are in poverty. Every time a citizen hesitates and says that he does not want to vaccinate, I wonder if he is thinking about those who would like to vaccinate at all costs and cannot do so. This is another thought that must be done to maintain that solidarity, responsibility and awareness necessary for common living. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u19	Mr President, I am not going to talk about the obvious and unappearing discrimination - as I have just heard from my colleague in the PD - contained in this green pass extension measure. In fact, it is factual and objective that we discriminate, moreover according to the census, between those who can afford the freedom of choice vaccine, paying for the swabs, and those who cannot afford such freedom. I will not even talk about the divisiveness of this measure, which in the families puts vaccinated against unimmunized, hates one another. Instead, I want to talk about the ineffectiveness and absolute disproportion of this measure; ineffectiveness on a scientific basis. I have to say that I have approached this issue with absolute willingness; I was agnostic, I wanted to see the data, I wanted to hear the opinions of scientists about it. In fact, I listened very carefully to the hearings that were held here in the Senate. I listened to them all and saw, on the one hand, professors and doctors with important positions of government that claimed certain thesis, even with objectively erroneous or intuitively incorrect statements. On the other hand, professors and doctors, who were not at all in conflict with interests, claimed that they had never taken money from pharmaceutical companies and that they had no government office that could somehow lead them to endorse or counter government choices. Well, these have made very different statements from those of the former. In particular, Professor Locatelli claimed against the truth, with a disarming... [[The microphone starts flashing]] Excuse me, ma'am, didn't I have eight minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've been told three of them, and they're coming to an end. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). But the President of the Mixed Group had told me eight minutes; were they reduced? All right, I'll take note of that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, no, I didn't do anything to her. I've been told three minutes and they've been assigned to you, so I'll allow you one more minute because we've stopped, but you can come to the conclusion. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Will you allow me to speak at least five more minutes? I have some things to say that would not be said by any other colleague, since we are so few to tell the truth in here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't have the power to make deals that would be up to your Parent Company. I'm sorry. He's not in my faculty. Please go on. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). I was referring, with regard to the expressions clearly against the truth, to those, for example, of the coordinator of the Scientific Technical Committee, who claimed that the assessment of the vaccine's ability to reduce infection would also be carried out on the basis of the assessment of the different number of swabs made in the plates of vaccinees and not. In fact, to read the documents and also to hear the statements of Professor Brusaferro, president of the Higher Institute of Health, this statement is clearly wrong, if not false. The ease with which, in front of the Senate, people in these positions lied is disconcerting, just as it is disconcerting that the president of the Higher Institute of Health stated at the hearing that the number of swabs was not taken into consideration to calm the two plates simply because it is assumed that vaccinated and not vaccinated do the same number of swabs. This is obviously incorrect because it is clear that the non-vacciners make a far greater number of them, so where they search more, the more positive they find. We have commissioned a medical expertise, an opinion given to an ordinary professor, and the results have spoken clearly: they say that the scientific assumption of the vaccine's ability to reduce the chain of contagions fails after six months, on the basis of the most important international and national scientific tests and studies. Therefore, it is false that the green pass can create safe places; on the contrary, it allows, alas, unfortunately - this is the most serious aspect - that people who can be carriers of the virus and potentially contagious have a sort of license and can thus behave more casually, helping to spread the virus. For this reason, scientific debate should be more free, as freer should be the possibility of manifestation. I truly regret that some of my colleagues have applauded the government's decision to limit the possibility of dissent in the country, to limit the processions. It is a situation which is not found in any other democratic country or which is said to be so. My concern is not only the inability of this measure to protect public health or the discrimination it introduces, but precisely the anti-democratic rate of the current Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u20	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, medical expertise has just been mentioned. Of course, I agree, I would extend it very much, perhaps even in this House, just like the green pass I proudly own. The decree-law before the Assembly, which introduces the green pass for access to workplaces, represents a further step towards the wider extension of anti-Covid vaccinations for the population. There has been a long debate, including between the social partners, on how best to achieve this result. The choice of the government to which I applaud has therefore fallen on the forecast of the obligation of the possession of the green pass in the totality of the places of work, in coherence with the path already started last year through the forecast of the obligation of vaccination in certain working contexts at the highest risk of contagion. This option, although to be shared for the contribution to the widespread spread of vaccinations, certainly has consequences of organizational and management of some importance for employers, called to comply with the obligations contained in the legislation. Companies have never backed out and public administration, thanks to the Government and Minister Brunetta, has given itself its rules. Since 15 October, we have seen the public services that have been so lacking in the presence of citizens, with damage due to the inevasive practices and the impossibility of doing so with the so-called smart working. Not least, finally a breath to all the induced around the workplace, such as bars and restaurants, which for months and months have been closed. In recent months and especially in recent weeks there has been a heated debate - alas, too much above the lines - with interventions that have even compared, in a truly unacceptable way, this measure of prevention to other horrid examples of suppression of freedom. I am sure that, of all those who praise this freedom or deny the importance of what happened and continues to happen with the Covid, no one has had family or friends lost because of this virus. Unfortunately the dead were many and we were touched a little 'all; the negationists were lucky to be able to go to the square to say nonsense. We at Forza Italia - as we have repeatedly said - have understood very well the concerns that raises a simple certificate and also the critical elements that it can represent. We are convinced that the government cannot focus everything on this instrument, because there must be ample scope for convincing a large range of non-vacciners. Let me give you an example: why do we see very few television spaces in which we explain how vaccines work and how they differ from others? In which you answer in a simple way the questions, even the strangest ones, that people rightly pose themselves, in turn frightened and confused by the nonsense that can be read especially on the net? There is certainly a group of fanatical and dangerous mixers, which must be blocked with all lawful means. But there is also a vast group of people who do not vaccinate because of various fears and because they do little correct information. I am aware of this because, for example, in my medical study (beyond the fact that, being a private study, I can ask for access with the green pass to my patients) some patients who were not convinced of vaccination, hearing very simple things, were convinced and vaccinated. So thanks to the credibility of those who talk about things they know, people can easily be convinced. As representatives of even the most confused citizens, I think we should ask ourselves whether this can be an effective tool and - why not? - even efficient to contain the epidemic. We immediately remove what was perhaps the main reason that led to the obligation of green pass, i.e. the incentive to vaccination. You have to vaccinate because it's right, for us and for others. It must be said that the green pass cannot give certainty, because it is true that a holder can also bring contagion; but we know perfectly well that there is no vaccine in the world that gives 100% coverage and that there is no drug in the world that is 100% effective. So why do all these great thinkers and all these improvised doctors and scientists say they don't want to vaccinate because the vaccine doesn't cover them? Meanwhile, you are covered at 80, 90 and 95 percent, depending on your age and other personal conditions, and then above all you can see it from the numbers. The effectiveness of the green pass is not in the certainty of non-infectiousness, but in the drastic reduction of its probability. In order to achieve what is called group immunity, one cannot think of using measures that make infection impossible, but measures that make them very unlikely, so that they are reduced away until exhausted. We know how low the incidence of the virus has been in hospitals, especially in intensive hospital therapies. I would like to point out, for example, that it was yesterday in Singapore, in a state which, however, seems to me to be rather democratic, that it was decided that those who deliberately did not get vaccinated and became ill with Covid must pay their health costs. This is rightly unacceptable from us, but then we cannot give examples, saying that in the rest of the world they are all free and no one gets sick, because this is not the reality. The green pass can have a very effective effect in decreasing the likelihood of contact between a contagious and a contagious. If the probability decreases, they also decrease the infected, diagnosed and not, which in turn, thanks to the green pass, can infect less and so on. Well, then, the sanctioning forms contained in the decree-law, because they create both disadvantages and limitations for those who do not accept not to create greater risks in society, but what is important is institutional communication, clear and convincing. I thank President Draghi for this, for the change of pace, also in the communication, which has impressed his Government, compared to the previous ones. I am sorry, for example, that, when it comes to health, Mr Hope is never here, but he will certainly be informed. There are certainly no green passes that base their opinion on values at least very theoretically respectable, but there are also many who follow only bad teachers, who for various reasons, certainly not noble, certainly not ethical, choose to work against the effort that the Government is making to control the epidemic. I hope that the police, also thanks to the population, will be able to identify them as such and then pass on to isolate them. We learn to communicate that the green pass has the role of simple invitation to vaccination and you will see that Italians will begin to consider it one of the most appropriate behaviors to follow, living in a community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u23	Mr President, according to the Covid-19 epidemic report of the Higher Institute of Health, which was updated to 3 November, in the 30 days running from 4 October to 3 November, the Covid-19 caused 416 deaths among the non-vaccined and 423 deaths among the vaccinated, which reach 450, considering also those with incomplete cycles. So the vaccine is ineffective, since we have the same number of victims in the two groups? No, it doesn't work that way, for the simple reason that the audience of vaccinees is much wider than that of non-vacciners. The vaccinees with full cycle are 42,672,767, those with incomplete cycle 2,653,423, for a total of 45,326,190, compared to 8.638,749 not vaccinated. As a result, there are 4.8 deaths per 100,000 not vaccinated, and one for every 100,000 vaccinated with a full cycle, which means that an un vaccinated person is likely to die of Covid 4.8 times more than one vaccine. With the same logic, it is shown that a non-vacciner is likely to end up in intensive care 11 times more than a vaccine. I do not discuss whether the starting data is correct or not. Unfortunately, the scientific community, the press and as we shall see, alas, some institutions have done much to discredit themselves, but we would not remedy such an evil degradation, proposing a completely false reading of data perhaps not completely truthful. With this caveat I add a figure: if in September there were 690 for every 100,000 not vaccinated and 125 for every 100,000 vaccinated, now there are 408 (-40 percent), and 96 (-23 percent respectively). With regard to intensive therapies, today the website of the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas) reminds us that they are employed at 5%, well below the 30% threshold. The correct reading of the data therefore tells us that vaccines work, but this makes it even more incomprehensible to choose a strategy based on an inappropriate mixture of surreptitious obligation and repressive response, which - it did not take long to imagine it - is proving counterproductive under at least two profiles: that of effectiveness, because the extension of the green pas did not result in a significant increase in inoculations, rather the opposite, and that of the keeping of the social body, torn by the decision to demonize those who want to exercise their freedom of choice. [[Applause]] I would add that the green pass causes sensitive problems of moral hazard, for the simple reason that it gives to those who hold it, causes vaccination, a completely unjustified sense of immortality. We have seen that, unfortunately, the victims are also among those vaccinated with a full cycle: we must keep our guard high and respect the precautions. The point is that a state that wants to be authoritative communicates in a transparent, non-controversial and inclusive manner. So let's start by talking about transparency. I belong to a discredited category that is not that of virologies, but of economists and I ask myself a question. One foundation of the economy is that there are no free meals and nothing is inherently just good or just bad. For this reason, we are talking about cost-benefit analyses. I therefore ask you and I: is this vaccine a free meal? Is it possible that it doesn't have any adverse effects? And if he does, when do we want to talk about it seriously in the interests of the community? Any medication, even the most trivial, has side effects. Who gives us the certainty that vaccines against Covid, of which we objectively do not yet know much because they have recently been put on the market, are the only drugs in the world without side effects? With some confusion I read, three hundred and nine days after the vaccination day that marked the beginning of the vaccination campaign, the first tweet in which the AIFA urged patients to report any adverse reactions, without however indicating the web page in which to do so, which - we remember, since nobody does - is www.vigidrugo.it. I repeat, the AIFA doesn't remember her. It is not clear why, in a context characterized by such uncertainty, the burden of reporting any adverse effects has been left to the citizens, without informing them about the correct procedures for doing so and causing them to self-censor themselves for fear of seeing the infamous and discriminatory stigma of no vax. Today science is held in great consideration, especially by those who do not know what it is because it does not belong, unlike me, to the scientific community. I note then that the omissive behavior of AIFA, which has not arranged active pharmacovigilance and has substantially discouraged passive pharmacovigilance, is radically anti-scientific. [[Applause]] Science cannot progress and pharmaceutical companies cannot improve their products unless data on adverse effects are collected. This scandalous opacity and negationism do not contribute to authority. So let's talk about non-controversiality. We now know that the coverage provided by vaccines (unfortunately not complete, as has been mentioned) is also labile over time, since it disappears after about six months. This is confirmed by the fact that we are talking about a third dose at a little less than 12 months after the vaccination day; on the other hand, there is evidence that natural immunity lasts at least a year. Why do I say at least a year? Simply because the short time since the beginning of the pandemic does not allow us to verify that natural immunity lasts longer, as well as to ascertain the long-term effects of the various therapies proposed. The fact is that, in the face of a natural immunity that lasts at least a year, a green pass is issued that lasts only six months, while, in the face of a vaccine immunity that lasts six months, we have a green pass that lasts one year. [[Applause]] You understand that it is very difficult to grasp the logic of such a provision. This does not contribute to authority. In the same way, they do not contribute to the authoritativeness of the statements of members of the Technical and Scientific Committee that, without any data, with a role as entertainers of the village fair, guarantee us in the newspapers ten years of immunity with the third dose and, perhaps, also a set of non-stick pots. [[Applause]] But can you do that? So let's talk about inclusion. I would like to start from here, from this umpteenth vote of confidence with which we are prevented from evaluating, among the various amendments, what would help the Government to heal the contradiction that I have just highlighted, bringing to a year the duration of the green pass also for the healed who - I want to emphasize - are the great forgotten of the debate. Maybe they're uncomfortable? I don't know. I would remind myself that we are talking about a measure which, in essence, imposes an economic burden on those who want to exercise their right to work, and this is because they have not violated an obligation, or violated a rule, but are exercising their own right. It is disturbing that on a measure of this magnitude, given the not very brilliant results in terms of incentive to the vaccination campaign, a thorough parliamentary examination has not been allowed. Moreover, at the beginning of my speech I explained how we read the data (i.e. - I say it for nerds like me - by analyzing the relative frequencies) and how pharmacovigilance works (which nobody has done and nobody knows). I ask myself the following question. Who has explained these things to people who are ridiculed, vile, discriminated against and repressed even by violence, who here and in the TV debate are labeled as no vax? Who should have done that? This was also noted by Mrs Rizzotti, from whom we are very much separated, but to which we are close on one point: the institutions responsible failed to carry out this pedagogical task. I must say with the utmost composure, but also with the greatest regret, that the Daspus in Puzzer is one of the worst and least intelligent things that has seen happen in the last ten years. It was not a good sight to see such a coercive measure applied to a person projecting an image of mildness and this a few steps from where a person subjected to Daspus for much more well-founded reasons had been able to sweep undisturbed on a square and attack equally undisturbed the headquarters of the CGIL. [[Applause]] But what worries about this incomprehensible gesture, as well as the confidence placed on this provision today, is that these gestures are signs of weakness. At the beginning of my speech, I stressed the positive results of the vaccination campaign and I therefore gladly acknowledge that this Government has done the good of the country; however, a government that has not enough authority - because it loses it for the reasons I have exposed - to convince citizens to vaccinate, but at the same time does not have sufficient authority to force them to vaccinate, perhaps it will have rendered a good service to the country, but certainly has not rendered it to the image of the State. I would like to draw our attention to this point: the time has come to change direction and nothing, in what is happening, justifies further tightening up or extending the restrictive measures that have shown effectiveness so far, but that nothing in the data suggests that they should be prolonged. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u24	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u25	Mr President, we are faced with the most important problem of this parliamentary term: perhaps none of us had foreseen this when we settled in early March 2018, but in reality dealing with the pandemic and above all trying to understand what this phenomenon is, it has been for all of us a sort of backbone that has somehow conditioned our choices, our judgments and our interventions day by day. This is particularly true of all of us in the 12th century. The Commission, which in fact deals with the major issue of health and ultimately public health. Today the reflection that we are called to make for the fourth time on the topic of the Covid puts us in front of the difficulty to hold together the most important directives that cross the world of health and that concern the relationship of cure, of which is integral part a correct diagnosis, therefore to know if this patient has or does not have the disease, if this patient turns out positive or negative regarding the test to which it is subjected. But the treatment report also includes appropriate interventions, which in our case condense substantially in the vaccine, because compared to therapeutic interventions we are still in a futuristic perspective, we do not know if they will be needed, when they will be needed and when they will actually be available in Italy. In addition to the report on care, the other important course of action is research and it is the theme that emerged today: both research as a method and objective research that brings sufficiently credible results. As for research as a method, we have seen the multiplicity of television interventions that before almost daily, in Camere reunited, for twenty, thirty, forty minutes cheered or weighed down all our Saturday evenings or however weekends, now we say that these interventions have been reduced, they are practically pills of interventions, but the specific content of these pills is always the same and recalls - to whom of us is accustomed to attending the Maccari room and loves the beautiful representations of Roman history - that famous senator who appeared every day in the Senate remembering that delenda est Carthago. In the same way our experts appear on television only to say one thing: vaccinated, vaccinated, vaccinated, as if it were a marketing operation. We must immunise ourselves, but research is not only the scientific one, the biological one, it is also the research that somehow addresses, for example, the topic of communication and also addresses the topic of training, which is the third strand I want to focus on. The slogan: "Vaccinarsi, vaccinarsi!" is a contrast that is exasperating with the manifestations of stress - it seems to have become a stress test - that affect our population. The vast majority are convinced that vaccination is good; perhaps some of you remember that at the beginning of the pandemic I had asked, as a respect for public health, for all senators to be vaccinated. I am not here to say what the reactions were then, as if it were a caste to protect while today there is the chase to not vaccinate. I deeply believe that vaccination is good. I am talking about vaccination once, twice and three times, but I do not believe in the futuristic hypothesis put forward by my previous colleague that vaccination is good for the next ten years. Nobody believes that. [[Applause]] We all know that the vaccine will be valid for a certain time. What then is the keystone of interpretation that does not have a theoretical foundation and documented by who knows which technical and scientific investigations? It has the strength - which is not a small thing - of the experimental data: those who vaccinate may still get sick, but certainly get less sick, die less and, therefore, it is better to vaccinate. I don't know why it's good, but I know it's good somehow. I therefore take this decision for myself and for those who are close to me. This is an easy concept to represent, which requires no ideology in one sense or another. It's an experimental criterion. Faced with this it happens that many families, for example, are obliged to use a series of swabs if the child is positive, if someone in the class was positive, if someone in the family was positive to prove that they are negative. The buffer operation is becoming very expensive for families, so much so that in the reflection that we did in the 12th Mr President, I should like to thank the Commission for its work on this subject. Because if I do a blood test or a red blood cell count, the national health system gives me this investigation, and if I do a swab, it won't pass it to me? Why is it out, if it is a measure of health and all the more if it is a measure of public health? It is the contradictions of the system that become irritating to public opinion. The same applies to the smart working worker: why should it be claimed that as a worker he has his own green pass and that the costs relating to the possible verification of subsequent tests should be borne by the employer? If I am at home and am already vaccinated and have my green pass, why do I need to be urged to continually demonstrate new possibilities to exclude the risk of getting virus infection? The 12th Commission included in the report its comments to the substantive Commissions and therefore also to the Government. The fact that confidence is placed prevents us from presenting the amendments, from thinking in concrete terms about these aspects and from improving the legislation. There will be a black stain of a confidence that is being consumed a bit because some sort of abuse is felt. Another interesting element - ça va sans dire - and evident for all is that greater and better scientific communication is needed, to be modulated in the appropriate ways, whether it is the lower secondary school or the upper secondary school, the university or the continuing training to which any person working must be subjected. The interesting thing is that, when we talk about this topic, the scientific dimension of the argument is totally placed in the background with respect to the dimension - let's call it that - a little belly, emotional, that arises from the annoyance of the third dose, the annoyance of the buffer, the annoyance compared to this feeling of being under a bombardment of information that falls in flagrant contradiction with each other. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. We will vaccinate ourselves, confidently and surely; but that they do not give us false arguments and that a demagogic battle is not made of them. The subject is complex, we still do not know everything we should know and it will probably take years. That we are not forced, therefore, false theories to justify something that, experimentally, is worth doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u26	Senator Riccardi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measures which, as members of the Senate, we are honored to be able to examine and which come to this House are all equally important, deserving and delicate. But there are some who, by scope, impact or social impact, inevitably end up becoming more important than others. This is undoubtedly the case with the Senate Act 2394 - Conversion into law of the Decree-Law of 21 September 2021, no. 127. It seems that a long time has passed since, on 1 July, the European Community introduced the green certificate to allow the resumption of the safe movement of citizens in the Member States, leaving wide discretion to countries to impose their own model of certificate. Today, after a few months, we are here to ratify in our legal system the last extension of the scope of the certificate, which has become necessary since 15 October also to go to its own place of work, whether public or private. You see, Mr President, I do not presume to state with absolute certainty that this extension is correct or to say whether, on the other hand, it may be excessive in some respects. What I can and I want to say with force is that, when a provision affects so deeply in the life of a community, it is right and proper that this be done with all due care, without leaving any possibility of doubt or misunderstanding. Two years of pandemics have brought the citizens to an end in all respects, no one excluded, from the physical one to the psychological one, to the economic one. It is precisely at this stage that the role of the State is of even greater importance, as a responsible father of one's own community in difficulty. His task, delicate and complicated, starts from an ineluctable base, which is the one on which the League fights and has always fought: the need for correct and timely information. Mr President, since the beginning of this pandemic, as a League, we have seen how much harm it has done and could continue to do wrong, confusing and sometimes even contradictory information. The League has always fought on this point and we have been the victims of instrumental criticism, of those who wanted to make us pass for who we are not and put in our mouth words that do not belong to us. [[Applause]] Vaccines and therapies are very important. The green pass is an essential tool for the economic and social recovery of our country. This is the case and I repeat it strongly, as I have always done and always supported it. But people need to be helped by providing them with the right tools and the right notions. It is not acceptable to read and hear everything and the opposite of everything; there are no possible inconsistencies that exasperate already wounded souls and stir up an already precarious social system. The government must explain the usefulness and value of the vaccination system in facing the pandemic, going beyond contradictions, which do not come from politics, but have come from the world of information. It must act in such a way that the green pass can be seen by our fellow countrymen as a useful and sensible tool, a tool of guidance and not of control. [[Applause]] It is difficult to comprehend certain absurd and illogical contradictions that have arisen in recent months. It will probably be my lack or my limit, but I personally find it inexplicable why the courts expect the judge and the chancellors to have the green pass and the witnesses and the defendants not. As well as to go to the bar there is no need for a certificate for indoor standing drinks, unlike those who decide, instead, to sit down. In order to access public offices, users are not required to have a green pass, while Mr Rivolta's amendment was rejected, which called for access to libraries for those who do not have a green pass for the sole withdrawal and return of the book: an amendment following an agenda on the green pass 3, previously approved by all political forces. Beyond the goodness or not of the specific decision, these are twists that do not help to instill in the citizens that sense of confidence in the decisions taken and imposed, which instead becomes essential at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us, as Parliament, have a duty to work together so that no citizen can see even one of his freedoms compressed. And we are called upon to act in order to keep the rights of our Constitution balanced. Clarity, transparency and completeness of information: this must be the main way forward, so that the State and its citizens can truly become a single body that moves in the same direction, that of recovery and redemption. I am going back to the government, as I have done before, to point out another issue that I consider to be of primary importance. Recently, it has often been decided to merge into the decrees, such as what we are now examining, a subsequent decree, which deals with similar issues. A similar hypothesis was also feared for this decree-law. I do not want to go into the matter now, because in the next few days we will be able to talk extensively about Decree-Law 139, a decree that deserves total attention, because it introduces delicate and important news on the processing of data of Italian citizens and intervenes with decision also on the preventive powers of the Data Protection Supervisor, remodulating its scope and possibility of action. At this stage I want to confine myself to a small and constructive criticism of the modus operandi. I believe that the union of such important decrees, so impacting on the social balance of our country, is never a good operation, because it does not allow Parliament to carry out its task in an optimal way and because it is something that inevitably ends up increasing the degree of confusion, which is already excessively high in itself. In conclusion, Mr President, I feel obliged, finally, to express my disappointment at the fact that almost all of the Lega Group's amending proposals have been rejected. Amendments tabled not for obstructive purposes, but aimed at simplifying and improving a text in which we note strong inconsistencies; amendments dictated both by listening to citizens' requests and by the criticalities that emerged in the hearings. The League feels strong the responsibility of those who have placed their trust in us and stands as a bulwark for the protection of all Italian citizens, their rights and their freedoms. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u28	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u29	Mr President, the first point on which I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members is the practice, which assigns acts such as this, which have a prevalent if not total health consistency, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the referee, as the sole seat, thus giving up the possibility of examining the text in the Commissions meeting. I would like to thank, of course, all the Members of the 1st Commission who, however, have not followed the case of health, for not having had the opportunity, for example, to listen to the many hearings held by the 12th Commission, the Commission on the substance, since its inception. Mr President, I would therefore like to point out at the outset a problem which is not very small, because in the end the single debate, the one that remains in the proceedings, is the one that takes place in the Commission. Therefore, to assign this type of act to the 1st Commission in an absolutely uncritical and exclusive way, without using the possibility of assigning it to the Commissions together, means to prevent those who have been following it since the beginning of the legislative term from making a concrete and factual contribution. After that, what happens happens. For example, as happened last night, some absolutely sacred amendments were rejected; even agendas were rejected which made demands on which a debate should be opened, such as the mandatory passport under the age of twelve. How can we reject an agenda which proposes that it should not be compulsory until the age of eleven? This, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a technical and form problem, but a matter of substance. In fact, preventing a debate between colleagues who have spent a long time exploring the events of the pandemic is obviously not good; I do not know what can be referred to, but I personally do not like it. I have listened to the speeches made by my fellow Members and I congratulate everyone. However, in particular, I take advantage of a passage from Mrs Binetti's speech to reason on something that I would like to put to the debate in this House, not having the opportunity to do so elsewhere, such as in a Commission of Inquiry, whose institution has been prevented and continues to be prevented, while it would be the ideal place to deal with certain issues. Mr Bagnai, quite rightly, spoke of a vaccine that lasts ten years and, from the top of his analytical capacity, did not say it at random. The European Union, in fact, has bought 4.6 billion doses of vaccine. Did you know that there are 4.6 billion doses between the purchases, options and deliveries? What are 4.6 billion doses for, since the population of Europe is about 446 million? Evidently, there are about ten doses of vaccine per head in very trivial accounts. What are they for, if not for the next ten years? Given that the 817 million doses already delivered covered about 75% of the European population in double administration, is it quite clear that something is not clear and who must understand what is not clear about all these things that happen, if not the Italian Parliament? Who must understand this and then in turn explain to the citizens, that someone considers such, while someone else still considers subjects, to whom the verb must be given (as I have heard in some speeches)? Citizens, on the other hand, need to be properly informed about the usefulness and why the European Union buys about 10 doses of vaccine each. What are you doing, what scientific source is behind this decision? You could then talk about contracts, which are all secreted, so you don't know how much they cost, what kind of vaccines they are; we know the suppliers and the technology of vaccines, but we don't know if, for example, they are developing vaccines. I hope that an intelligent response will be that for which the doses chosen take into account any developments in the vaccine, which must also cover variants, as is the case with influenza. All these events, however, cannot be left to the imagination or good will of the intellect of the individual senator or parliamentarians; these things must be investigated within a special Commission which, of course, I do not know why, someone is afraid to set up. Another thing I want to put to your attention, ladies and gentlemen, is that at present there is still a range of about seven million citizens who have not even received the first dose of the vaccine. The relevant data can be extracted from the facts that are drawn from the weekly report of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. According to the last of November 5 last, dividing people by age group, among the non-vaccined there are over 200,000 Italians over 80, therefore at very high risk, almost half a million in the 70-79 range, also at very high risk; another 760,000 in the 60-69 and 1,200 000 in the 50-59 age group. This is a problem that is not solved with the vaccine passport. If it could be resolved by means of this instrument, it would have been resolved by now. It is quite clear that we need something else, that we need a path to understand why these subjects do not trust the state, the messages constantly conveyed by the media, by social media, by politicians, basically by everyone. It is quite clear that there is an adverse reaction, which does not accept these types of messages. I want to conclude with a proposal to prevent all our speeches, which ask sacrosing questions, from being labelled as interventions that disturb the mainstream. The doctors of general medicine have up to now been mere spectators of all that has happened in the pandemic management and in the management of the vaccination campaign. In fact, doctors of general medicine are the natural interlocutors of the over fifty and over seventy years, because many of them, 80 percent of the over seventy years old suffer from chronic diseases. The general medical doctor represents the path through which we can fill this gap of more than seven million citizens who have not received the first dose of vaccine. But you don't ask these questions. 11:12 a.m. (ZAFFINI followed). These questions you who live on certainties, uncritically transferred, do not ask yourselves. That's the real damage we're facing. Unfortunately, in fact, anyone asking questions is labeled with the usual formula of the Left that when it has no arguments it labels you; sometimes it labels you homophobe, other fascists, others still No vax. That's your formula. The damage, however, continuing to perceive the public thing in this way, you are doing it to the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u30	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u31	Mr President, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteur for the measure, partly because I believe that in presenting the measure that we will be voting on today, from the point of view of my previous experience in this House, she has dealt with an issue that I would like to belong to all: it is time in our country that we no longer oppose Article 1 of the Constitution, which speaks of a democracy based on the right to work, with the right to health. It is an opposition that has done damage in the history of the country. This is the important point with which, from my point of view, the choices we make should always be evaluated. The choice that the Government has made to extend to the whole world of work the obligation of the green pass goes exactly in a useful, modern and necessary direction in order to be able to reopen the country and economic activities, and in order to be able to push towards the growth, the quality of the job, the investments; it means exactly doing so in a perspective of safety. Safety at work, therefore the obligation of green pass at the workplace, means this. I would like none of us - and I know none of us forget - to forget what we have behind us. I say this not only in terms of deaths, but also in terms of the number of jobs lost and of what difficulty we will have if we do not continue with the choice and continuation of the vaccination campaign. True, no one has certainties, but what does it mean not to have certainties? It means knowing that scientific research is also followed, which from time to time carries forward; and at the same time it is necessary to contemplate a fundamental political choice, which is the one on the basis of which, in the face of the variations or conditions that are determined by the increase of the contagions, it does not fall back. We are in that phase of passage in which the choice of the vaccination campaign has led us exactly to reopen the country and guarantee jobs. But if we do not pay attention to the variables in this context and in this phase, we risk regressing and then we will find ourselves in this House facing the problem of jobs, growth and everything that we, beyond this day, rightly continue to discuss and place at the centre of the debate (because that is what Italians and Italians are asking of us). That is why I believe that the extension of the green pass is a serious political choice, a choice for the economy and for democratic coexistence, a choice that gives this country future and hope. We don't have to leave her. Let me also say that, fifteen days after the actual entry of the obligation into the workplace, all the major issues that were threatened before did not happen. I would therefore like to express a special thanks in this House to companies (at all levels for their responsibility) and to those who organise the work (and therefore to trade union organisations) because, despite the difficulties and complexity of implementing this obligation, they have worked precisely to make it effective. From this point of view, I would also like to thank you for the approval of all the amendments in the Commission, because they have tended, by bringing together some difficulties in implementing this complexity, to help processes of efficiency and simplification, and to facilitate some things that could be made easier intelligently: I am thinking, for example, of the verification and use of the same green pass. For this very reason, however, I would also like to say here that when it is assumed as a condition to guarantee the safe work of this choice, which is indeed a choice of freedom, we must all support it together by fighting, in terms of training and communication, misinformation. However, I do not want to confuse disinformation in this House, which creates tensions, with a correct and legitimate - I do not share it, but it is legitimate - view of these processes differently. However, I would like to remind the House of what is happening in our streets - I do not want to mention the places, because it is a widespread phenomenon of leopard in this country - in terms of violent attack and conflict of those who assume the responsibility to implement the obligation of the green pass in the workplace; I remember the most resounding one, namely the attack on the headquarters of the CGIL (it must always be remembered). Allow me, in this House, once again to express my full solidarity with Saverio Tommasi, Fanpage and all journalists who, while exercising the right of news and the right to information, are a precious asset of a democratic country. [[Applause]] They're insulted, threatened, attacked. This is not freedom of expression, but exactly the opposite: it means that a critical view of Parliament's processes and decisions is also legitimately prevented. (11:21) The Senate House and Parliament must always condemn them, we must never be reluctant about this, not even by accident, regardless of the critical issues that I have heard in this House. [[Applause]] See that this also means helping people's knowledge, expertise, and critical tools. This is part of public communication. Then we certainly have delays and we have to improve, but this is another very important element. I am very passionate, because I hear the words that President Mattarella said yesterday, which I also thank here. Yesterday, in front of all the representatives of the local self-government, President Mattarella said important words: The legitimate forms of dissent can never overcome the civic duty to protect the weakest: we must defeat the virus, not attack the instruments that fight it and fight it. This means exactly that we must not attack the green pass, because it is the instrument of contrast that we have. Again, it is time for responsibility, but we know this and - I want to acknowledge this - we all exercise responsibility. Violence is never admissible, and since it is a very complex day, at this stage, in relation to the violence in the streets, I think that Parliament, in particular the Senate, should be unanimous in welcoming the Viminale's proposal to regulate square demonstrations in a context in which there is also the work that is going on. So the choices of Minister Lamorgese are to be correctly placed in this itinerary, which excludes the elements of violence, which does not say "no" to the demonstrations, but regulates them. This is another point of democratic seriousness and balance. What does this lead us to? We are at a stage close to the changeover, although we must not abandon this phase. Let us discuss this: the Democratic Party is among those who say that, if necessary, we are moving forward with the emergency, as Mr Boldrini said before, because we must accompany this phase of reopening the economy and workplaces, the resumption of the sociality and life of people. We are in fact at the point where we have to make people live concretely, accompanied by the element of health and safety, therefore with the obligation of the green pass, those investments that create quality work and the modernization of our country, thus creating the conditions for economic recovery. See that no one around the country forgets, because he is still living it today, to be insecure about the future of work, for himself, his children and his grandchildren. I think that is the responsibility today and that is why today's vote is really important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u32	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u33	Mr President, given the public goods, the Italians' bodies have been passed without injury. What real interests lie behind this pandemic? Of course, it does not escape anyone who is under enormous pressure, difficult to explain and to justify rationally, for the use of drugs that have followed a preclinical trial less accurate than that of any cosmetics and that they want to sell for effective and safe, not with scientific data that are lacking, but with suggestive statistics, collected on unlikely samples, without ever providing raw data. If these were effective and safe drugs, why would it have been necessary to impose them with the compression of constitutional rights? With completely insufficient preclinical studies, these drugs have been authorized and are practically imposed on the whole population, using unpublished systems, to which none of us was accustomed, on the pretext of a medical emergency to which it is now difficult to believe, since a danger of this magnitude should have been countered by every means, not with a weapon sprung up like that of vaccines, which circulate the contagions, make the people of Covid sick and die. Drugs that should prevent Covid, and then let contagions circulate even with the third dose - in the RSA also the guests get infected with the third dose, as all media sources attest by now - how can they be imposed with the compression of the right to work in this absurd way? In the absence, therefore, of preclinical studies, it is also prescribed with economic blackmail to cancer patients, cardiovascular diseases, autoimmune diseases, to pregnant and lactating women, even shortly to children, even the administration of these drugs in order to get what? To obtain a certificate that does not attest to the health safety of the exhibitor. In fact, you must know - everyone knows - that the green pass is not even suspended in case a vaccine has turned out to be positive at a buffer. An obligation, then, that leads to what? To herd immunity? Not at all! It only leads to dependence on subsequent doses, given not to the actual need to protect people, but to the logistical need of the administrators. A drug is given only if it is good for the person and not because otherwise they take away the opportunity to enter the workplace or go to the cinema or participate in an educational journey and even live. There are even some doctors who refuse to visit patients who are not vaccinated. This is what we have come to this country thanks to you, thanks to the majority that holds up an abusive government, sold to multinational drug companies and that sold us, our bodies, to multinational drug companies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you take responsibility for what you say, of course. GRANATO (Mixed). How did you give 26 Covid's deaths per day a disproportionate logistical and economic burden compared to the 490 patients who die on average a day of cancer and 613 who die on average of cardiovascular diseases? With 4,000 contagions per day where is the emergency health that you impose crazy restrictions on us and so maybe you think you can extend ad libitum, until, that is, you have not exhausted all the stocks - stocks that no one has authorized you to buy - of products that are not even finally authorized because, precisely, they have not followed all the trials that should have been subjected to. Furthermore, on adverse effects there is no active pharmacovigilance: there is only passive pharmacovigilance, with one case in 100 reported, and the criminal shield on doctors that obviously does not even allow those affected by the adverse effects to assert their reasons. Even by the public prosecutor of Padua has been submitted a request for storage for the case of the death of the major marshal of the Carabinieri Pietro Taurino, who has now been found to have died due to the inoculation of the drug - I stress drug because it is not a vaccine, it is a drug - AstraZeneca. To all the parliamentarians of this majority who are making themselves accomplices to such a criminal policy, to the involution of Italian society imposed by decree, through the destruction of rights and a civilization (conquests of more than seventy-five years of democracy), I merely point out what happened to the Confederal unions when they wore their jacket and tie and embraced the technocrate of the multinationals: they were chewed and spit, because by now, having lost any credibility, they no longer serve. What can they threaten? A strike whose effectiveness they themselves have agreed to limit to its own time? I strike that no one will do any more, because by now the workers have lost it for a long time. The same thing will happen with all of you; that 60% of people who have not gone to vote have anticipated it. Do you think that this yet another act of servility that you are preparing to carry out today, probably by voting with confidence on this measure (unconstitutional in all respects), will save you, because you will have earned the benevolence of the multinationals? Maybe some of you, those who run you into a wall, will individually treat their exit. But you, when you come home - certainly at least a third of us will come home - you won't even be able to show up. At least we can show ourselves around. We've reduced this country to a banana republic. [[Comments]] and the responsibility lies with this majority of government, a majority now completely detached from the country and from everything that is useful to the public interest. We are not pursuing the public interest here, but we are simply working to allocate, in a scientific and permanent way, part of our budget to multinational drug companies, subtracting it from public health, which was the only weapon we had to effectively combat the pandemic. Even the vaccinees are forced to treat themselves, precisely because this drug does not prevent people who vaccinate and take it to the hospital and, therefore, to get sick with Covid. What was the only intelligent and logical solution to take? It was to strengthen public health and to carry on early home therapies, which would still ensure prophylaxis for everyone and would guarantee everyone to be cured, vaccinated and not. Instead, the fact of having focused on preventive therapies only allows multinationals of the drug to inflate their budgets, being able to show them on the stock market and therefore receiving a benefit in the rise of their quotes. Didn't we realize there are insiders in here that are promoting these trials on our bodies? Did you not realize that people are not stupid and the one who manifests in the square is struggling for their lives, for their own survival, and that in the fury of doing doses here you do not know where we will end up? Neither do scientists, as these products do not have a sufficient level of experimentation to be able to be verified... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u34	Senator Granato, the Presidency certainly does not intend to recall or comment on the contents of the speeches made by the senators. At the same time, however, he pointed out that each person assumed responsibility for his own claims and the unfounded accusations met that criterion. Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to stress that my speech will be mainly on a personal basis, given that there are different sensitivities on this issue. It will be a little unusual for a Parent Company to do a personal intervention. However, a Holding Company also has its own conscience and rightly has the will to express its own thoughts and ideas. The explanation of vote will then be made by Mr Augussori, who will represent the position of the Group as a whole. On September 15th, on the occasion of the conversion into law of the previous decree-law in the matter of green passes, I said: The invitation we make is to try at least to lower the tones: there is the risk, as unfortunately is happening, that the positions - on green passes yes, green passes no, vaccines yes, vaccines no - become increasingly radical. If the objective is to vaccinate the population as much as possible, it would be more appropriate to lower the tones, discuss, inform, explain, be as transparent as possible in the data (...), precisely because constraints and obligations risk strengthening doubts. After more than a month from that moment, the resistance has actually increased and the confrontation, increasingly ideological, between no vax and ultra vax has radicalized. Perhaps, if he listened, lowering his tones, we would have avoided demonstrations, gatherings, contagions, clusters and so on. [[Applause]] The green pass probably didn't get the desired effects. The first doses have risen by only 6 percent and however the infections are somehow increasing. The divisions have been fueled, also because many citizens have pointed out - for example - that for us citizens there is the hardest green pass in Europe, but then to those who come from abroad - I have witnessed it - is controlled little, especially in the case of flights coming from other European countries. Immigrants continue to land, some of them infected, and are free to continue to circulate and are allowed rave parties, with highs and drugs, in spite of all health protection rules. [[Applause]] As in the best tradition of the Italian State, one is strong with the weak and weak with the strong. So if the rules are to be put in place, please apply to everyone, and not just the good and the honest. Perhaps the government is underestimating the social tensions, which are not only in the streets: I read the interview to an entrepreneur, according to whom the government is wrong to underestimate the social estate, because in the departments there is no solidarity because of a measure that feeds tensions in the company, but not only - and it can assure - also in the workplace in general and in many families. The question is whether all these tensions and divisions will be good for our economy, so hopefully there will be improvement and recovery. I don't know. I ask that question. It would be good - as we have been saying for a long time - to use an accompaniment and conviction line. The undecided must be convinced with reasoning, calmly and without contradictions, taking into account that a 10 percent or 15 percent of people who do not vaccinate are physiological, as has been seen throughout the history of humanity, since the vaccines arrived. This can be done by using the help of basic doctors and pharmacists, who can often and willingly help convince people to vaccinate. This can be done with the transparency of the data: we said that this had to be done, but it has not been done and this has given rise to doubts and suspicions. Since it is said that 90 percent of people in intensive care are not vaccinated, this data is written when the daily bulletin is made. It seemed like we had to leave, but it wasn't done. If you don't communicate, you feed doubts and suspicions and you give arguments to no vax: it doesn't seem like a very smart thing. This can also be done by comparison and cohesion. Let us remember that we are in a government of national unity, which should unite and not divide [[Applause]] and with a political confrontation in Parliament, which was not there. There will also be yet another confidence on this decree-law, with common sense amendments that have not been taken into account, even on the subject of serology, which was also carried out by other groups, and on the subject of the green pass for the healed. They were amendments that did not undermine the decree-law, but they improved it and tried to loosen and make it more common sense. They even made fun of us: on the amendment to recognize Sputnik, to allow the citizens of San Marino to come to Italy, the answer was that we recognize it, but we need to do a dose of Pfizer. We're really on the edge and I'm gonna stop here. My question is, therefore, whether we are sure that we are doing everything right. Are we sure that we are infallible or that the Government is infallible, or perhaps we need a confrontation, even scientific, that is important and there has never been? The Technical and Scientific Committee is the new temple and Locatelli and company are the priests of the new religion. Many experts had also asked for a comparison on early treatment, which could have been an additional weapon. Nothing: door barred and censored. Let's not forget: you even want to censor the transmission "Report" and that says a lot about what is going on in this country. [[Applause]] Excuse me. Woe to disagree! Moreover - as history explains - science in order to be such must be nourished by doubts, questions and information and, above all, prevent it from being centralized in the hands of multinationals and becoming a dogma. It is right what President Mattarella said: no to anti-scientific drift. I subscribe to it and I agree with it, but I would also add: no to drift scientist, which is another thing and it is right to emphasize. Then there's something that disgusts me. I am glad that Mrs Fedeli says she has respect for other people's ideas. I do not agree with the intervention of Senator Granato, but I have a culture of respect for the ideas of others and it has somewhat disgusted me - I tell you, Mr Fedeli - to hear certain statements that make me shudder, especially after years of lessons on how to combat discrimination, protect minorities and try in every way to combat hatred; we have even set up a Commission. I have heard so many statements aimed at denying treatment and legal assistance to the non-victims, or at removing their country's power or predicting lockdown only for them. Even a company puts non-Vaccinated people to work in the warehouse. But are we sure that these are the messages we have to give to the population, trying to convince people to vaccinate and the goodness of our ideas? [[Applause]] I'm creepy. You can't say: I leave freedom of choice but, if you choose not to vaccinate, I have to hinder you and even get to haunt you. This is not part of our country's democratic culture. [[Applause]] In fact, I think we're moving towards a social embarrassment. Other than solidarity, charity and many other words. Aren't we overreacting a little? It's kind of like the theme of the non-vaccine pandemic. Let us also be careful here because, among other things, those who control themselves the most are the ones who make the buffer. This morning, on a television show, I heard the President of the Marche Region say that half of the infection in the region affects vaccinated people. I am vaccinated and the advice I give to all vaccinees is to make some extra swabs, keep putting on the mask and stop going around thinking that you can do what you want just because you are vaccinated. [[Applause]] In fact, we too can help to spread the infection. We must be serious, also from this point of view, in the messages and in the communication, also because - honestly - those who are afraid of not vaccinated are the first to question the effectiveness of vaccines. I am vaccinated and I am not afraid of those who are not vaccinated; if anything it is he who must be afraid and not me. Today, who is more afraid of the non-vaccine? Just the guy who gave up the vaccine like it was a magic potion. It's just that, instead of calming the climate by trying to listen to some suggestions and advice - let's calm down, work and get vaccinated - in reality there is a risk of further feeding the division. Now we start to charge with the vaccine for the under twelve. Not to regulate demonstrations and ban them in the centers! This will result in further divisions in the country and in families and an increase in tensions and problems. When it comes to school, I ask the government why they didn't start with saliva tests. The promised tracking has vanished into thin air and the salivary tests authorized by the Higher Institute of Health in May, now, after being authorized, are considered absolutely unreliable. That would be the tool to do carpet tests and check schools without talking directly about vaccines. [[Applause]] So we risk giving another topic to the no vaxes. Some will wonder why the tests have not been carried out in schools and some may answer: perhaps because they wanted to vaccinate them? This only feeds doubt. That's the point. As for the experts, even today in a television show it has been said that they have a unanimous choir on the safety and the fact that children under twelve in the six to eleven years old group, should be vaccinated, but it does not appear to me. In this regard, I will give a list of all the experts, even those who are quite famous, referred to in these years of pandemics, who say exactly the opposite. Crisanti says that we need data before we touch children of that age, that one experiment on 2,200 subjects says little and that we would need at least 30 or 40,000. Burioni says that the study conducted according to him is critical, because it was performed on too few subjects. Francesco Vaia, director of Spallanzani, says that the point is always the calculation between risks and benefits and that the correct strategy is to avoid the risk when, even if low, it is not indispensable and that, if a child already has some other pathologies, it is better to vaccinate it; If he's healthy, he doesn't see the need to vaccinate him. Sergio Bernasconi, an ordinary pediatrician and former director of the University of Modena and Parma, says that historically the risks and benefits have always been assessed before vaccination and, if the latter are greater than the adverse effects, they are vaccinated. At one time it was discussed whether to make the serum against measles compulsory, but the encephalitis caused by that virus were seen, so also the children suffering from polio or diphtheria and there was no doubt about the greater advantage they would have from the vaccine. For Covid, however, there are still no clear data on risks and benefits in children. Gian Vincenzo Zuccotti, principal of the faculty of medicine of the state university of Milan - I am not quoting no vax or who knows what phenomena there are - says that vaccinating children is not the priority, except for the categories at risk. There is an appeal published on the Newspaper Fact of many Oxford doctors and scholars who invite to limit vaccination only to vulnerable subjects. John Ioannidis, one of the most cited epidemiologists in the world, in an article on children showed that in Italy and Europe the deaths of Covid-19 of minors are about three per million. The long-term risks of new anti-Covid vaccines on children are currently unknown and concludes the call of doctors and experts: "We wonder and wonder again that harmful consequences could have a hypothetical error of this kind on an entire population of paediatric age. A study by the University of California in mid-September, also taken up by the "The Guardian" - so I'm talking about important newspapers and magazines - comes to the conclusion that children between the ages of twelve and seventeen are more at risk of side effects after the vaccine than Covid. Two British studies claim that long-covid in minors is almost non-existent (I have here a complete list of sources, which I will then hand over to the Presidency to avoid wasting time). The Murdoch children's research institute of the University of Freiburg, as well as the German pediatric associations, advise caution. The American magazine "Time" reports that at least 40 percent of children probably contracted Covid asymptomatically and this would make mass vaccination even more unnecessary. In New Zealand, researchers have requested, after a series of studies, the stop to anti-Covid immunization against children and pregnant women, believing that the estimates of risks were spoiled by some errors. It cannot therefore be said that the whole scientific community is unanimous on the subject of vaccines under twelve. If we want to talk about correct information, I have also given another point of view. [[Applause]] Many agree that further studies are needed, perhaps with larger samples. So, perhaps it would be better to wait and go with caution because, if the scientific community is divided, what should inspire us? Perhaps it would be wise to respect the principle of maximum precaution, and instead we know that everything will already be ready and established; the green pass for children, for children will probably also be ready. Our Minister will be looking forward to this measure. It is said that children must be vaccinated in the interests of other people, but my reflection is that a society that puts children at risk in order to protect adults and elderly mostly already with two doses, which will probably make the third, in my opinion is, as well as selfish, even for no reason. We already have few children; at least we protect those we have, if we are absolutely not sure that what we inoculate is actually safe. That's the message. [[Applause]] I had a calm surgery. I ask you with politeness and kindness: please do not put surreptitious obligations. Leave the children alone or at least use a little more caution for some fragility. It's right, and experts testify. Don't throw too much rope, because otherwise it breaks. Stop for a second and reason while you're in time. We need to discuss, reason and confront ourselves. I don't love and never loved the delusions of omnipotence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u36	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the complete list of sources which it has previously requested to attach.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u38	Mr President, I assure Mr Vitali that I will not make explanations of vote or, better, not for the Group, but for myself. Since we have already voted three decrees on the green pass - this is in fact called decree green pass 4 - I must admit that the intervention that I will make today will seem to be countercurrent compared to the majority of the interventions that have preceded me, which I am - I say with regret, because I have very different opinions - criticizing the approach of the green pass. Most of the colleagues who preceded me, excluding those from my Group, whom I thank, like Senators Rizzotti and Binetti, have made interventions that prescind from the merit of this decree green pass 4, which provides for the protection of health and safety in the workplace both in the public and in the private. I am very frank that the use of the green certificate in the workplace appears to me to be a common sense decision which takes account of the emerging legal framework in which it is placed and operates a reasonable balance between the right to work and the protection of public health. Unfortunately, what emerged from the majority of previous speakers is that this aspect completely escapes and, that is, that the green certificate was conceived and conceived - in my opinion correctly and rightly - to seek not only the recovery of health to Italian citizens, but also the return to a strong economy. If things go well, in fact, people do not get sick and probably the economy grows. And the results are coming up. I belong to 80% of Italians who believe in the green certificate. Of course, listening to colleagues, I feel a minority. I admit it. Most of my colleagues have spoken critically about this measure, but I do not think so. I believe that Italy is in better condition than other countries because, through its collaboration with its scientific community, but also because of the creativity and common sense that the Government has been able to find with this type of measures, a situation has been created - it seems to me that other colleagues have completely silenced this aspect - better than that of many other countries that have not adopted the same containment measures and the green certificate not only in the workplace, but where it is possible to do so. I must admit that questioning the usefulness of the green certificate still remains; even questioning the fundamental need for the maximum spread of the vaccine, even among the smallest, goes against the common sense and against the will of the entire scientific community. I am not a virologist, nor a scientist, and I will not quote any statements, any articles from Nature or other virrologists who have spoken, because here I am a Member of Parliament and I am able to give a political opinion on what the Government is doing. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that I am absolutely happy to have a government that has been able to deal with the situation with this decision and without adopting the vaccination obligation that it could have adopted; but it has done so in order to give the possibility to those who think otherwise not to vaccinate, to have a different attitude than to the usefulness of the vaccine. However, bear in mind that we have now arrived, also because of the adoption of the green certificate, at 84 percent of the population who completed the entire vaccination cycle and 87 percent who did at least one administration. I would like to say to all those who consider this type of solution inappropriate, not useful; a solution that is not good for the country, for health, for freedom, for the economy - all the opposite of what I think - that however only 13% of Italians have not taken any vaccine. Basically, those who splash, get wild, get agitated in saying that all this is wrong represents 13 percent of Italians and has against 87 percent of Italians. I have a feeling all this is getting lost. I heard a colleague say that the adoption of these measures - I stress that they are measures that are now copying other neighbouring countries, such as Austria or Germany, that complimented us; I read an agency a few minutes ago in which it is written that the German scientific community is saying that the adoption of the green certificate will also be a necessity for that country - would even make our country, the State and the institutions weaker and less authoritative. I think the exact opposite. I think that, instead, our country, with the adoption of these measures has obviously stimulated Italian citizens and they have reached percentages of vaccinated at the world summits. In fact, we are the third country in Europe as a number of vaccinees, abundantly above Germany and also France and the United Kingdom, which - by chance - now face a series of measures caused by the new spread and a possible fourth wave of Covid-19 viruses. All this has strengthened the authority of this Government also at international level. It is the exact opposite of what has been said here today. I am amazed to have heard so many critical voices in general discussion in the Senate about a measure that, instead, protects the health of Italians, protects the economy of this country and relaunches it. [[Applause.]] (at 12 o'clock) Let us not forget that we are reaching 6.3 percent of growth and that was unthinkable only a short time ago. [[Applause]] I conclude by saying that I hope that those who criticized this decree have done so in words, but then voted in favour. If it gives me so much, it should be rejected: for what I have heard, for the enormous and incredible amount of criticism that has been made in this House about the text. Know that this frightens me. I say yes to the green pass 4 decree, after having already voted in favour of the previous three decrees on the green pass, reaffirming that I think exactly like 80% of Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u40	Mr President, we are about to convert a decree into law which is certainly necessary to deal effectively with the pandemic emergency that has been afflicting the whole world for almost two years now and seems to be giving no respite; a decree which has extended the use of green passes to public and private workplaces and which has produced a debate that has often been debased, contaminated, embroiled by fateful and intolerant attitudes, which have lost sight of the real focus of the debate, namely the search for a balanced point of fall between health prevention policies aimed at protecting the health of citizens, and other fundamental rights, such as the protection of work and economic production, placed in a relationship of mutual integration. The parliamentary path, made mature and constructive by the confrontation that arose, has filled some imbalances dictated by the unhidden need to persuade our compatriots to take the path of vaccination as a non-obligatory path, but almost indispensable, in the state of experimental scientific evidence, to protect their own and other health, promoting the definitive exit from the tunnel of the pandemic. In particular, by persisting in the freedom of choice over the willingness to take advantage of the vaccine, the need was and is not to produce opportunities for discrimination that are not strictly necessary to preserve the collective health and the maintenance of the health system. On this front, like Movimento 5 Stars, we have produced a series of amendments, some of which have been successful, such as the one on the non-sanctionability of workers whose green pass comes to an end during the performance of the work: a forecast of common sense, which will help to give greater serenity and fluidity to the complex management of the workplaces subject to the obligation of green certification; again, an amendment on the campaign of information and awareness, aimed at developing that awareness and that sense of responsibility that are indispensable elements of social cohesion and of contrast to the spread of the disease. I would also remind you of the amendment on the further calming of the buffer price for the weak, which follows the request to exempt from the obligation those who work outdoors or in isolated mode, that is, in all cases where the need to make the risk of infection close to zero does not actually exist, because there is no occasion for interpersonal contact; these amendments have then been transformed into agendas. The green pass is therefore a useful tool, which has allowed our country to proceed on the path of restart, relaunching growth and allowing to regain the daily sociality, raped and compromised by the pandemic. We have conducted a historical vaccination campaign, which puts us in a condition of moderate optimism. We cannot stop or frustrate our efforts, but we must not even take on the robes of a prince who lives with certainties. We are legislators and our task is to find solutions that respond to the need for a reasonable and proportional balance of interests at stake, bearing in mind that every choice of merit can never be entirely discretionary, but must move in the wake of a fair contemplation of fundamental rights and freedoms. This is why clear, certain and transparent criteria must be the evaluation criteria that justify the reasonableness and proportionality of the existing health prevention measures, compared to an epidemiological situation and a continuing course of vaccination. We must not forget that freedom of choice with respect to the right to vaccination, in line with what the European Union recommends, requires us to direct citizens towards conscious and informed decisions, but also to properly calibrate every precautionary instrument with respect to the real emergency needs, without falling into the trap of antagonism, which feeds ideological resistance, superstitious ignorance and individualistic menefregism. Allow me one last digression. In order to clear all doubts about the fear of the pandemic, and not to download its management to citizens, two are the objectives to be pursued with force and determination: the suspension of patents on vaccines and greater transparency on data and research. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u43	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, the general debate has been very interesting and in-depth and we can also think about it with a view to the Conference of the Leaders at 3.30 p.m. With the agreement of all the Leaders, therefore, a suspension of the work of the Assembly is called for until the end of the Conference of the Leaders, in order to facilitate its orderly conduct.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u44	In response to the request, which seems to me absolutely shared and unanimous, I suspend the sitting until the end of the work of the Conference of the Leaders, which will begin at 3.30 p.m., then orientally until about 4.30 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.08 p.m. and resumed at 4.45 p.m.) The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u45	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law in question, which fully transposes the amending proposals approved by the Commission, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u46	In accordance with Rule 161, paragraph 3-b, of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency reserves the right to evaluate the text of the amendment in accordance with and for the effects of Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure and transmits it, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, to the 5th Permanent Commission, which is now authorised to convene and whose work should last for about one hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u49	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, the imposition of confidence makes my willingness to speak on a subject which I would have liked to be able to take place in a Chamber which is not full, but a little more crowded. However, it is already a great deal if, today in this House, I am allowed to make a few minutes' speech on an occasion that is very close to my heart, referring to 10 November 1956, when it ended, repressed in blood, the one that has passed into history under the name of the revolt of Hungary. In 1956 Hungary decided to rebel against the Soviet Communist yoke and, despite the Soviet Union's threats, to leave the Warsaw Pact. Thousands and thousands of Hungarians went down to the square and challenged the tanks that had entered their country in the meantime. One figure makes it clear: 200,000 Russian soldiers and 400 tanks entered Hungary. After November 10, 250,000 Hungarians left Hungary to avoid the communist repression that led to an incredible purge: killings, arrests and an infinite number of disbarred citizens. 2,700 Hungarians had fallen and 720 Russian soldiers had died, but - most important - on November 10, 1956 the hope of a European people died to be able to counter the decision taken at the Yalta Conference, with which the world had been divided into two zones of influence. What struck me then (I was a nine-year-old boy, but I remember it well) was the reaction of Italian students in schools and universities where very strong was the presence of young people on the right side of Young Italy and the University Front of National Action, who supported, as in no other part of Europe, those people and young people who fought with their bare hands against Soviet tanks. What still remains important in our Italian history is the example of how one can not remain unarmed even in the face of an imposition and violence such as that which Soviet communist tanks then put in place, with 200,000 men, against an unarmed people. The other fact that over the years we have never stopped remembering is the fear of the West, which did not intervene. The Hungarian insurgents expected the United States, the British, the French, those who had not won the war many years before, to intervene in defense of the magician people and this did not happen. On the other hand - it was well done by President Napolitano to basically apologise and to revise his position of those years - that the Unity and the Italian communists solidarity with the Russian invaders. The titles of the Unity are there to testify, Togliatti even said that that day had drunk an extra glass of wine. Mr President, the fact that this House today can remember the sacrifice of the Hungarian people and its fight against tanks and Soviet communist rule is a sign of that freedom that we must all continue to defend together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u52	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, in 1956, when the Hungarian uprising broke out, I was fourteen years old, I was enrolled in the Tasso high school in Rome and I participated in a very large demonstration in which all the Roman schools were involved. We were loaded by the police in Piazza Venezia and then I was suspended from school for participation in that strike. I remember all this to say that it was tragic events that struck even the youngest, at a time when Europe was very divided and I believe that the Senate of the Republic is doing well today to remember it. With this same spirit, however, I also say to Senator La Russa, who knows well how much consideration I have towards him, that we must always escape the temptation to make history by doing political too, because history is something different from today's politics and we of the left would be wrong to remember the tragedies that have bloodied Europe because of the formations of the right and draw consequences on today and I believe that it hurts democracy if, on the contrary, today the right remembers 1956 and then Hungary to give a judgment against the left today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u55	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank Ignazio La Russa, who has us discussing a strong moment of freedom in our world. As for what the children of Hungary did in Budapest in those days, I, today Senator Zanda, then did the fourth gymnasium and I still remember that I had a tonsillitis and I was in bed with a fever. That morning I was listening to the radio newspaper and when I heard the Russian tanks coming into Budapest and shooting at the boys, I started crying. In my high school I had attended some meetings, because, as a classical high school "Giosuè Carducci" of Nola, we had participated in a certain Latin and Greek in Germany, so we had a series of connections with those realities and we knew what was happening and the great desire for freedom of those boys. Knowing that those young people were being shot without any need and that the tanks were being brought in was a tragedy. Then nothing was known yet about what happened in the Eastern world and for those of my age it was a tragedy to know what was happening. Thank God, the strength of ideas and freedom was imposed, creating years after the European Union, which had been achieved at the beginning, but which remained a different European Union from the other, that of Eastern Europe. Today we hope to be able to achieve the principles and values for which those children were beaten, who are from all over Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u58	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, I think it is right to recall the invasion of Hungary, which gave a fatal blow to the experience of Imre Nagy and which, in my opinion, would have marked an aspect of profound novelty. Then the Communist Party took the wrong position. Subsequently, the debate began in 1956, with the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (PCUS), and the Italian Communist Party began a profound revision, which led to the condemnation of the invasion of Czechoslovakia and the subsequent coup d'état in Poland and the famous statement by Enrico Berlinguer on the exhaustion of the thrust of the October revolution. I have no difficulty in remembering this, because in 1956 I had a year, so I have no memory of this path and of these statements, but I can remember that in the last thirty years I have found myself reasoning several times about the experience of Imre Nagy, to condemn that invasion and also to reflect. I agree with Mr Zanda, in fact: these things must make us think about a historical affair, not to use this or that against this and that one politically. Historical reflection could serve to reason. Imre Nagy was not a dangerous liberal, from the point of view of their experience, but a communist. There were other events as well, but I do not want to waste too much time now, but I would like to say to my colleagues who have introduced this issue that I have no difficulty - I stress with conviction - and from this point of view perhaps there would be very interesting historical ideas for everyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u61	ANGRISANI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 October 2005, a 14-year-old boy, Francesco Paolillo, lost his life by falling from an abandoned palace, one of the many inaccessible as a result of the damage caused by the 1980 earthquake. The tragedy took place in Via De Meis, now Viale Carlo Miranda, in the district of Ponticelli in Naples. Today, in the place where Francesco lost his life there is a abandoned construction site, which would be more appropriate to define a landfill, where the pylons and the foundations of that building from which little Francesco fell still stand. Francesco is a forgotten hero, because, dear colleagues, you must know that he fell as he climbed to help a little younger player who could not get off. The degradation of this place of pain is a slap to the whole community of Ponticelli district, an offense to the memory of Francis and his family. Over time there have been many battles for the reclamation and the safety of this area. Everything went to the wind, as unheard the strong will of the family has remained, which has long asked for a signal from the institutions that honor the courage of their little angel. In via Carlo Miranda on 3 August 2017 tons of waste were brought to light; on 21 October a post was discovered inside the area used for poaching and maltreatment of birds; on 14 October 2021 another fire occurred in the area, abandoned to degradation, where Francesco died. Sixteen years after Francis' death nothing has changed to Miranda Avenue in Ponticelli. The area where the 14 - year - old lost his life remained insecure and inaccessible to anyone. Even the rides, built in memory of Francis, never inaugurated, are an example of degradation and not a memory of his death. The children of the neighborhood are forced to play in an abandoned street full of dangers, while you could retrain this space and dedicate it to host a playground. Ponticelli, as well as almost the whole East of Naples, has been forgotten by the institutions, which have never responded to the family's requests for help. Since 2005 Francesco's family, especially his brother, has been demanding that his death be not forgotten, and to do this there can be no better way, colleagues and colleagues, than to commit that this area of the city of Naples be reclaimed, secured and requalified, and then be named after the sacrifice of Francesco Paolillo. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u64	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, on 30 October, 24-year-old Claudio Lasala, brutally stabbed by an 18-year-old woman, was murdered in Barletta on a night of nightclub. Claudio was a polite and hopeful young man who studied to enter the Armed Forces. I dare not think of the pain of family members, to whom I cling. The stab wound - mortal, for Claudio - has been inflicted to the entire community and not only: it is a stab wound to our humanity and our security. Suddenly we felt unarmed prey to free arrogance and violence, deprived of respect, justice, dignity, brotherhood and beauty, which are the blood of man. Is it possible that a drink in a bar will turn into a chance to meet death? Can we ever tolerate the banality of evil? I also think of stabbing, luckily not lethal, inflicted by a boy at the groin of a contemporary, always for futile reasons, in a discotheque of Bisceglie. We can never tolerate them winning fear and silence! That is why today I bring back to the Senate the cry of sorrow of a great community, healthy, active and supportive, that rebels against all forms of violence. It is true that the state's response for prefectic action was immediate and strong, but we must all mobilize to eradicate evil. The institutions and civil society must take the issue of youth at heart. In making my own the proverb quoted by Pope Francis, who requires a village to educate a child, I say that we must all work together in favour of young people on three fronts: education, training and work. In order to prevent the culture of violence from infiltrating society, it is necessary to intervene as soon as possible with preventive and then repressive policies. Let us not neglect growing youthful discomfort, even because of drugs and alcohol. I would remind Members of the responsibility for creating the conditions for a better society, which opts for the progress and well-being of all, with special regard to young people. Only then will our children be able to grow up in a just society where oppression and violence can never take root! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u67	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, today I am speaking to bring to the attention of this House the condition of prisons in the field of health, because, following so many visits to the structures, from North to South, it has emerged that health management, in this case, leaves much to be desired. More specifically, my intervention is to be a desperate signal, addressed to prison health officials and Minister Cartabia, in order to avoid possible suicide. In this particular case, I am referring to the inmate Salvatore Sparacio. In the preamble, I would remind you that national and supranational rules stipulate that citizens are entitled to health protection and effective access to care, that detained citizens have the same right, that they cannot be compressed or left to administrative discretion, and that penalties cannot consist of treatment contrary to the sense of humanity and must aim for the re-education of the condemned. However, we return to the prisoner Salvatore Sparacio, who, following investigations, during many psychiatric investigations carried out since April last, has been suffering from pathologies related to paranoid and depressive disorders, with behavioral disorders and state of paranoid schizophrenia. The prisoner Sparacio manifests a declared will, already for months, not only not to take solid food, but to commit suicide. He has already tried to do so several times, through the hanging with the sheets of his bed, so it was considered appropriate to let him sleep with paper sheets and submit him to the administration of opiates. Personally, I saw Salvatore Sparacio and I spoke to him. His condition is very alarming. He has difficulty walking, also due to a strong state of debilitation, with loss of balance, so he is forced to stay in a wheelchair, with a plant. At present, its conditions are even more worrying. Last Friday, from the prison of Syracuse was transferred to that of Benevento. Saturday morning he was taken to the hospital and returned to prison on a day. Shooter entered prison on April 9, 2021. At his entrance he weighed 84 kilos. Today, in about seven months, it has lost 30 and weighs 54, with diffuse muscle hypotrophy, degenerative neurological problems and organic decay. It is clear that the detention measure is incompatible with his psychophysical state. I should like to end by expressing the hope that health officials and Minister Cartabia will be made aware of this and that before it is too late there will be an emblematic case for so many other prisoners. I would also like to remind you that only today, for the current year, there are 47 suicides in prisons. In the last week of October there were three. On October 25 a 36-year-old prisoner took his life in Pavia; on October 30 it was the turn of an inmate at the prison house of Isili and on October 31 that of a recluse in the surrounding house of Monza. The State is responsible not only for the deprivation of liberty, but also for the protection of the rights of the prisoner and his health. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u70	CORTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking today to stigmatize the article that appeared two days ago in the newspaper "Gazzetta di Modena" in which the National Partisan Association of Italy (ANPI) attacked the white partisan Romano Levoni, decorated and awarded medals by Brazilian liberation troops who took part in the fights of the Gothic line. Well, Sassuolo's ANPI writes that the partisan Levoni cannot at the same time be a supporter of the Resistance and fans of those who, like Bolsonaro, have a violent vision of politics, makes prevarication and intimidation tools for the management of power and expresses a highly anti-democratic and authoritarian leadership. This is the National Partisan Association of Italy which, instead of making history, only makes political exploitation. If Bolsonaro had not been a regularly elected president and represented the right, perhaps they would not have been scandalized that the white partisan Levoni took part in the commemoration in Pistoia of the fallen of the Brazilian liberation forces. However, the Anpi di Sassuolo does not stop here and states that it is now a distorted fantasy that of Levoni, an elder who manipulates reality by building narratives that have no foundation; even the association invites the municipal administration of Sassuolo to ensure that during official events no more situations of this type occur. Do you realize that the ANPI, which should represent democracy and freedom of expression, tries to shut the mouth of an eyewitness to the civil war? [[Applause]] It is incredible to see how they claim to censor this very young former partisan, of the 1929 class, who in 1943 reached the band of the monarchist partisan Rossi, who was killed by the communist partisans themselves in the locality of Montemolino, in the Municipality of Montefiorino. If his fault is that he was an eyewitness to the many nefarious deeds of red partisans, or supposedly such, we believe that this is not a fault, but a historical truth, that people like him can testify. As you know, they are from Montefiorino: we, who live in the mountains and listened carefully to the testimonies of our grandparents precisely on the civil war in the so-called area of the Republic of Montefiorino, know well how things went. These are precisely the areas that have seen as martyrs the seminarian Rolando Rivi, recently beatified, and Don Luigi Lenzini of Pavullo in Frignano, murdered by communist partisans after the Liberation. We think you can't shut your mouth to a very young partisan decorated with value by the Brazilian forces. If this is the democracy of the National Partisan Association of Italy, I believe that we must absolutely distance ourselves from the statements that the ANPI of Sassuolo made towards this very young patriot. I believe that the lucid witness of a historical period on which a strongly ideological shadow still weighs should be valued and that it cannot be passed as an elder to be silenced just because he knows the historical truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u71	I suspend the session until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.14 p.m. and resumed at 6.12 p.m.) Colleagues, I am informed that the Budget Committee has not finished its work, that is to say it has not begun it. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 6.40 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 18.12 p.m. and resumed at 18.52 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u72	The Presidency assessed the amendment submitted by the Government and considered it admissible under Articles 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1.8000, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft conversion law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u73	I have read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission pursuant to Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure on the draft law: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 127 of 21 September 2021 introducing urgent measures to ensure the safety of public and private work through the extension of the scope of application of the green certification COVID-19 and the strengthening of the screening system ". The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the amendment of the Government 1.8000, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion which is not an obstacle to the replacement of Article 3-c by the following: Art. 2 (a) (b) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) Until the end of the state of emergency referred to in Article 1 of Decree-Law 23 July 2021, n. 105 converted with amendments by law 16 September 2021, n. 126 to the professionals of the health professions referred to in Article 1 of Law 1 February 2006, n. 43 belonging to the staff of the health sector, outside the hours of service and for a total weekly hours not exceeding 4 hours, the incompatibilitys referred to in Article 4, paragraph 7, of Law 30 December 1991, n. 412 and in Article 53 of Legislative Decree 30 March 2001, n. 165 shall not apply. 2. In any case, the tasks referred to in paragraph 1, for which Articles 15-c and 15-d of Legislative Decree no. 502 of 30 December 1192, are previously authorized, in order to guarantee the organizational requirements of the National Health Service, as well as to verify compliance with the legislation on working time, from the top of the administration of belonging, which attests that the aforementioned authorization does not affect the business objective relating to the disposal of waiting lists, in compliance with the national rules for the recovery of the aforementioned waiting lists also consequent to the pandemic emergency.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u74	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u75	Mr President, we accept the conditions of the 5th Commission and therefore, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2394 of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 127 of 21 September 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u76	The Presidency takes note of the issue of confidence in the adoption of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government and calls on the Conference of Leaders (which will be very short) to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 6.56 p.m. and resumed at 7.04 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u77	The Conference of Leaders has established that, with regard to the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the single article of the decree-law on safety at work and extension of the green certification Covid-19, we will go directly to the explanations of vote and to the call at this evening's sitting. In the session of tomorrow will be discussed the bill of conversion of the decree-law on the containment of price increases in the electricity and gas sector and, from the writing site, the bill of extension of the deadline for the conclusion of the Commission of inquiry on the community "Il Forteto". When submitted by the Government the draft budget law, the measure will be immediately referred to the 5th standing Commission for the opinion to be given to the Presidency for the purposes of communications pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure. If the opinion of the Budget Commission is made available in good time, these communications will take place at 10 a.m. on Friday 12 noon. The next week's schedule provides for the discussion of the following measures: decree-law justice and extensions, currently being examined in the Chamber of Deputies; decree-law capacities; draft law on the freedom of trade union of military personnel, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, for which the group leaders unanimously agreed the derogation pursuant to Rule 126 (12) of the Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Leaders will meet again on Tuesday 16 November, from 3.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u78	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until 18 November: [[Wednesday, November 10 h. 9,30-20 - Following bill no. 2394 - Decree-Law no. 127, Work safety and green certification COVID-19 (decide no. 20 November) - Drawing of law no. 2401 - Decree-Law No. 130, Containment of price increases electric sector and gas (decide no. 26 November) - Drawing of law no. 2326 - Extension of term Committee of inquiry community "Il Forteto" (from the writing office) - Communications of the President, pursuant to Article 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Regulation, on the draft budget law (*) (where transmitted in good time) Thursday 11 " h. 9,30 Friday 12 " h. 10 (if necessary)]] (*) After the President's Communications, the draft budget law will be assigned to the 5th Permanent Commission in the referee and to the other Commissions in the consultative session. The budget session will begin from then on. [[Tuesday, November 16, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 132, Justice and Extensions (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (scade on 29 November) - Drawing of law n. 2409 - Decree-Law n. 139, "Capienze" (where concluded by the Commission) (scade on 7 December) - Drawing of law n. 1893 and related - Freedom of trade union personal military (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Wednesday 17 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 18 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the bill no.... (Decree-Law No. 132, Justice and Extensions) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. Amendments to bill No 1893 and related (Military personal trade union freedom) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Friday 12 November. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2401 (Decree-Law No 130, Containment of electricity and gas price increases) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 132, Justice and Extensions) (4 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2409 (Decree-Law No 139, 'Capes') (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u79	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1.8000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 127 of 21 September 2021 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u82	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, have accompanied the issuing of this decree on the obligation of green passes in the workplace and on the non-freeness of tampons. Do we have to pay to be able to work? It is the synthesis of the protests that have united unions, workers and even some employers, while foreign politics looked with amazement and admiration at the firmness of the decisions of our Government. A few weeks later, just see what is happening in other countries to say that the Italian route was the right one. Germany is recording the record of daily cases; Britain still knows a high number of deaths, not to mention Bulgaria, where the situation is completely out of control. We are experiencing the fourth wave and the numbers show that it is the pandemic of the non-Vaccinated: the lower the rate of vaccinations, the higher the number of new infections. The main difference between Italy and the countries most affected is that they did not feel able to introduce the green pass even for the workplace. In particular in the German world, the contagions of this fourth wave are higher than ever and politics is forced to take much tougher measures than we have in Italy today. In Austria, the 2G rule has been valid since 8 November. In restaurants, stadiums, ski slopes, cinemas, but also shops and hairdressers can enter only the vaccinated and the healed and not the people who have done only the swab. Unnecessary leisure and leisure activities are limited to those not vaccinated and rewards those who made the vaccine. This measure has already had a great effect: the tails in front of the vaccine points have increased exponentially. The phenomenon already has a name: panic from schnitzel. Unfortunately, the full vaccination rate is 67 percent in Germany and 63 percent in Austria, compared with 76 percent in Italy. This increased resistance against vaccines is a cultural phenomenon, which also occurs in South Tyrol, where it has even historical roots. Among the reasons for discontent that led to the Tyrolean uprising of 1809 against France, led by Andreas Hofer, there was also opposition to the obligation of vaccine against smallpox. I mean, it's a matter of mindset. People living outside urban centres are less aware of the gravity of the situation. Added to this is the great confidence of the South Tyroleans in their health care system. All this means that today the province of Bolzano is one step away from the change of color. We are in first place for new infections and last for vaccinations in Italy, with vaccination rates very similar to those of Germany and Austria. So everything suggests that we will soon find ourselves in their own situation. That is why we are beginning to discuss measures similar to those of Austria, because it is not justifiable that vaccinees should be subject to other restrictions because of those who deny science and refuse to do what should be done without a shadow of doubt. It is also not acceptable for right-wing parties everywhere, just those who usually preach law and order, to wink at conspiracyists and resistance against vaccines. You have to listen to the virologies and give the territories that require it the possibility to introduce rules that distinguish between people vaccinated and people who are not, rewarding the first ones, and to intervene also in white areas with punctual restrictions, if necessary. That is why we need a state legal basis which, in my opinion, would not have constitutional problems: at a pandemic emergency, the right to health prevails over the alleged restriction of individual freedom. All this must be done in the more general framework of a new impulse to the vaccination campaign in view of the third doses and the possible opening of vaccinations to the under 12. The decision of these days to ban marches in the city centers (16 only on the last weekend), which take place among the protests of traders for the climate of tension that keeps citizens and tourists away from the shops, is right; in the same way it is important to intensify the controls: just 900 fines from 15 October on all the national territory suggest that they are not proceeding with the due attention. To conclude, Mr President, we are in a very delicate passage that risks being so especially for the mountain areas that are preparing to live the first tourist season after two years of closures; a season that must in any case be guaranteed with open hotels and lifts. Therefore, this phase must be addressed with the same determination as these months. The government is moving forward on the path of a gradual but constant increase in vaccination incentives to reach 90% coverage and allow territories with great resistance to the vaccine, such as South Tyrol, to take more restrictive measures for non-vacciners. It is with this hope that I will announce the Group's vote in favour of the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u85	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the green work pass is a measure of solidarity, social cohesion and also of brotherhood, as well as a just decision of the State to protect public health. Work, as we have all learned (I was just over twenty years old, when I had my first job), is the place where you grow, you get rich, there is the exchange of collaboration between people, even between employers, workers and workers and with citizenship (let's think about all the work in services). For this reason, I would like to take back the thanks Mrs Fedeli gave this morning to all businesses, workers' representatives, professionals, self-employed workers for the great effort they are making in implementing Decree-Law No 127 of 2021, which we are converting into law, but which is already in force. At first the criticism was very noisy, as my colleague, Mrs Unterberger, pointed out, but silently and in extreme composure every day in thousands of places of work we control the green pass, which is evidence of how my personal safety is shared with others by ourselves. So he resumed to work, to buy, the economy gives good signals and also cultural opportunities and fun are gradually coming back into our lives. Italy is ahead in the vaccination campaign, with the reality of the Dragons Government and the General Son, and the green pass is also an example for countries like Germany (it was remembered before), which in these days is witnessing an increase in contagions. During the conversion of Decree-Law No 127 into law, the Senate has appropriately simplified and streamlined the procedures for checking the green pass to access the workplace through amendments by colleagues, including the rapporteur. An example for all: for the workers being administered it is specified that it is the user company that must assume the burden of control, while the agency is obliged to inform the worker and the worker correctly about the obligation of possession of the green pass. We must always update the application of the norm for possible interpretative doubts that pertain to the difference between those who go to the workplace and those who instead work in contexts not attributable to this affirmation, going on the place of the performance without passing from own company. We will solve these cases individually. We are also particularly pleased with the approval of an amendment by Italia Viva that addressed the issue of the shortage of nursing staff in health care residences (RSA) when nurses were hired in the public, partially overcoming the incompatibility, certainly taking into account the time constraints, also allowing nurses in the health care sector to do four hours per week to go to the RSA. The principle remains that mutual respect for health is the cornerstone of the green pass. I listened this morning to some unsatisfying questions from my colleagues. Senator Bagnai spoke of pedagogical value. This is precisely the pedagogical value and in these classrooms we should have a unique voice because the social hold is guaranteed by the high degree of adherence to the vaccination of our citizenship. President Mattarella said yesterday that the enemy to win is the virus and not the tools that fight it. Can we say that everything is okay? Of course not, we have all said that we are witnessing the recovery of the contagions for various orders of reasons and we need to act on some areas. The first area is vaccination in the world. At our gates, in Bulgaria and Romania, there is a very low level of adhesion to vaccination, so in the world generally. Further progress has been made at the G20 to provide vaccines to the countries most in difficulty. The second area is the need for the third dose that we will have to do as soon as possible because vaccines require recall. That's what science says. I found a very nice interview of the two youngsters of Turkish origin and German nationality, of the start up BioNtech, who invented the Pfizer vaccine. We must be grateful to them, to their studies, to their research, and to the researchers of the world because mRNA technology can cure tumors, such as melanoma or rectum, autoimmune diseases, HIV, malaria. All this thanks to this technology. The third area concerns transport: I would like to say to the Government that we must do more on the transport issue, because we must ensure that workers, workers and students enter and leave the workplace safely to reach the workplace, universities and schools. We should plan a great plan for the times of the cities. The fourth area is regional systems which are still not talking about each other. This is the reason for the delay in issuing the green pass. The last issue that we have also discussed in the Commission, which I honour to chair, concerns serological tests. I hope that progress will also be made in scientific research to provide reliability to serological tests and also to the certification of these tests, especially in order to meet some of the demands of those cured by Covid. In conclusion, President, by announcing the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour, never so strongly, I would like to stress that for our part there is a firm condemnation, without hesitation, of the demonstrations of the square without masks and distance in the era of pandemics. Also because of the repercussions they have on the economy, let us think, for example, of what they have had on the shops of the historic centers of the cities. We are convinced that the restrictions announced by the Minister of the Interior are very important. I also address a thought of solidarity with the social and health workers, especially in the city of Trieste, who have seen the patients of Covid duplicate. In the city's intensive therapies they are hospitalized almost only not vaccinated, which occupy beds that are important also for those who have other pathologies, for those who have had a heart attack or an accident. We can no longer afford not to cure the sick, not Covid: how many times have we said it in these classrooms. I conclude by asking: what can we do today? A few hours ago with Senator Rizzotti we presented a book here in the Senate, "Fiat Vax" which is a testimony of the doctors and health personnel of the Niguarda of Milan. I like to recall a sentence of this testimony: when you ask yourself "What can we do today?," the answer is as follows: Don't forget. We must not forget our dead, because their sacrifice has allowed others to live. Please do not trivialize the future that awaits us. It is only by mutual respect, starting with the labour community, that we can move forward, build the future and prevent further restrictions. Camus wrote in one of his beautiful novels: The plague never dies. But the Covid-19 has made us rediscover the meaning of life; let us keep it tight, let us go proud of our country and our government and go forward to fight this epidemic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u88	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, government representatives, fellow senators, at such a difficult time for the nation, the government should work to create cohesion and inclusion, to make all Italians feel on the same team; the government should show and be reliable, propose reasonable measures, without wanting to make the first of the class in any form of extremism; it should explain these rules and it should be transparent; in other words, it should tell the truth. Yesterday in the Commission, when examining this measure, which could only be examined in the Commission because this time too the Government imposes confidence by preventing the House, i.e. more than 90% of the senators, from expressing itself (only the members of the Commission were able to express themselves), we have achieved something small, that is to say, that we can consider the green buffer pass valid until the end of the shift, in order to avoid the things that have irresponsibly already happened in these weeks, such as trains that have to stop in the middle of the race because the driver has exhausted the forty-eight hours of validity of his green pass. In addition, it has been obtained to avoid that every day the employer must ask for the green pass from a worker who the employer knows has a green pass that is valid, for example, for two months. But it is too little, because for the rest we have only received nos to very reasonable proposals, made not only by us, but also by other representatives of the centre-right, and not only. The no has been fixed: no to the exemption from the green pass for outdoor work, where there is no danger of infection; no to the exemption from the green pass for those who work alone, isolated; we had a no from the Government for access to libraries at least to withdraw or deposit books in reserved spaces; we had a no to the proposal to have access to sports facilities for the under eighteen years; no to the equalization of tourist buses to other buses, as if the tourist ones were particularly welcoming to the virus and the others not, where maybe there are people pressed. We also received from the government the refusal to grant the green pass for those who had a Covid infection detectable with antibody tests. There was also a no on a proposal not only very reasonable, but based on the scientific evidence mentioned during the hearings in the Commission. We asked to bring to twelve months the validity of the green pass for the healed, because it results in many studies around the world, even very detailed, that the healing from Covid gives a resistance to the contagion much more reliable and much longer, even against the variants, than the one from vaccine. Silvio Brusaferro, president of the Higher Institute of Health and listened to by Minister Hope on all these issues, in the hearing here at the Senate on October 7 said these precise words: I confirm that scientific data tell us that natural immunity, as is also physiological for other infections, has a greater persistence than that vaccination. We have made these words clear to Mr Sileri, who had expressed his opposition to our amendment calling for the validity of the green pass for the cured to be extended to 12 months. Undersecretary Sileri says he telephoned Professor Brusaferro, who denied having spoken these words, but he said them and there is a video, available on the Senate website, that everyone can see. This is what Parliament is doing, talking and saying things in front of everyone, but perhaps someone prefers to have discussions within the dark CTS and various committees, of corridor negotiations that avoid, for example, bringing the budget law to the Senate within the time allowed. On the other hand, we are about to do things in front of everyone, but we have been told no. [[Applause.]] It was even worse: an agenda was rejected which called for the imposition of the green pass on children under the age of twelve to be avoided - that was the expression. We've been told no. Senator Romeo has deposited - and I formally request that it be published in the documents annexed to the sitting - a list of studies of the highest qualification that say that it is unjustifiable, it is not necessary and it is not advisable to vaccination children under the age of twelve, except in special cases, such as immunodepressed and similar cases. But that was not enough. I mention only one person, Professor Vaia, director of Spallanzani, the leading institute in our country in the treatment of infectious diseases, particularly distinguished in the fight against Covid, who today says that he does not see the need to vaccinate children under the age of 12. Asking for social solidarity to children under the age of twelve brings to mind ideology and fanaticism. That is what a serious scholar has said. [[Applause]] Who are you on the other side instead? Pfizer and Moderna of course; do you think they say their things aren't good? By the way, there are several things about Pfizer that have not been very correct in the past. As for the Modern vaccine, there are six important European countries that are banning it to subjects under the age of thirty, while they want to introduce it even for children of five. But where is the reasonableness, where is the respect of Italians and children? [[Applause]] Among the main supporters of the vaccination of children is Walter Ricciardi, who today reiterates that he is absolutely certain that children under the age of twelve should be vaccinated, citing data totally invented on the course of the epidemic in England: he speaks of dozens of deaths among children, too bad that the official website of the Institute for Health speaks of six victims in three months and under eighteen years, but perhaps eighteen-year-old children are something else. The same Ricciardi distinguished himself for various things; in particular a few days ago, on October 22, participating in a television show said that those who had made the Johnson&Johnson vaccine had to do it again within two months. At the request of the programme conductor, she stated that it had to be redone immediately, after two months. On this incredible statement Franco Locatelli, coordinator of the CTS, Guido Rasi, agreed among the main advisors of Minister Hope and undersecretary Sileri himself. But then what happened? The document of the American FDA (Food and Drug Administration) is discovered - or rather, Professor Gismondo, who went to see - saying that the booster of the Johnson&Johnson vaccine was to be done at least two months after the first administration: "at least two months after." I am not saying that it was a translation error; the problem is that we have not understood the meaning of the sentence and, on the basis of a phrase that has been misread and mistranslated, those who hold the destinies of our health care and of our children have made incredible statements and, instead of being sent away, continue to stand there. We could then quote the whole series of scientists, as they say particularly in this city, that in February 2020 they said that Covid did not represent any danger and that it was easier to die struck by lightning and so on. However, we are talking about a moment in Brusaferro, that is, the one who, together with Minister Hope, carried out a very hard action - words of the same Minister - towards the World Health Organization to conceal the document in which it was shown that Italy was seriously delayed on the pandemic plane, not having updated it since 2006, and not having triggered it in due time. A deficiency that probably cost thousands of deaths, so much so that Italy had a much higher mortality than other countries, especially in the first phase. The great concern of Minister Hope and Brusaferro was to conceal the document; after that, Minister Hope, right here in the Senate, said that he had not put any pressure on the World Health Organization, and we have his own testimony, published by "Report" that he said he had just spoken with the Regional Director for Europe of the World Health Organization, Kluge. [[Applause]] Well, in the United States those who lie before Congress risk up to five years in prison; we in Hope only ask that they leave. [[Applause]] and that you give way to a person who is able to handle such a delicate situation. We cannot force people to vaccinate children on the basis of statements by people who prove themselves to be liars in front of the Senate. [[Applause.]] We call for all the necessary measures to be implemented; we want a serious committee of inquiry, not as it has been restricted in its area; we call for home care and all that is needed. Brothers of Italy wants the common good, wants to work for the measures that are needed and not to make a little cover, to make a little 'poorness. We want to defend children against treatment that is not justified by scientific evidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u91	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists is in favour of the measure being voted on today. We are moved, as members of this Group, by certain convictions, the first of which I would like to express very strongly. We continue to ask ourselves what would have happened in our country if, instead of a line of intelligent rigour, a line of irresponsibility had prevailed, of which we have unfortunately had, even today, further examples in this House. [[Applause.]] I think that this question should be the basis for all our assessments. In the rhetoric no vax, boh vax, anti-vax, as well as in that no pass, boh pass and anti-pass, there is something irresponsible - let me tell you, colleagues - not only for its intrinsic contents, which are serious, but for the fact that I think it is spread so casually because we know so much that those unhealthy ideas, fortunately, in Italy will never be majoritarian [[Applause]] and they will never be tested. And, then, in this irresponsibility there is also a component of cowardice, which once again I would like to denounce from the benches of the Senate. I did it in a lot of counter-covid surgeries. Colleagues, it is easy to mature the conviction that from understanding it is legitimate to move also to a feeling of insuffering, for all this background noise [[Applause]] so very unrespectful of a public interest that must always be defended, that of collective health, the protection of the weakest people. You see, we speak lightly - I have heard it again today - of committees of inquiry. I would also like to make a committee of inquiry - and we should take care of it, among other things - about all that crazy mechanism of spreading fake news that creates great problems for our democracy. [[Applause.]] Other than the Committee of Inquiry into Covid's Management! We would need one on the systematic propalation of fake news in their cospiracy version, in their most greedy and vulgar version. I think this is a big problem. Italy today can be a model for other countries - and everyone recognizes this, if we look at the data of the past few weeks - precisely because the path of intelligent rigour has been chosen. What does intelligent rigor mean? It certainly means starting from a strict approach, it means knowing that only firmness can allow us to beat the virus, it means making all those concessions and loosenings that are possible without failing to this general line and it means moving forward on the basis of a careful evaluation of the scientific evidence that is before our eyes. Such scientific evidence cannot be an exercise in craftsmanship and autonomy in data collection and equivalence between true science and false science, because this is the biggest fake news. Finally, I believe that it is extremely dangerous to try, which has been carried out for months, to insinuate doubts about the credibility of the conclusions reached by the scientific community, to pick up on a daily basis what we are told by those who have a heavy and serious responsibility, but essential, to tell us what we can do, what is prudent to do and what health treatments are extremely advisable and necessary. I would like to make an appeal, after a debate which lasted several days within our Commission, where situations have been overcome which are not very easy and where unfortunately there has not been that unanimity, even within the majority, which I always hope: attention to the signals we give. I have to say that I approached this decree-law, a few days ago, with a hope relative to the data of the last days, that coincide with the lowering of the temperatures, with the arrival of a colder season and the increase of the activities that take place indoors: the new contagions today are 2,000 more than yesterday and there is a recovery, for now not strongly worrying, but certainly visible, in the course of the contagions. I was hoping that all this, and also the observation and evaluation of what is happening in countries near us that have followed different lines from ours, would lead everyone to a greater responsibility and moderation of the instincts of attacking parts of the green pass policy. We need to be very clear: the only weapon against Covid is the vaccine and the only thing that made us start again is the green pass. Few stories, that's the truth. [[Applause]] And then, if that is the truth, as I believe, we must be extremely attentive to the signals sent to the public. Finally, I would like to say that I very much agree with the choices made by the Ministry of the Interior with regard to the restrictions to be introduced at the demonstrations of so-called no-passes. The right to disagree is sacrosanct, but that right cannot be exercised by endangering public health and endangering another right of Italians, the right to work. It seems to me that, from this point of view, the best and wisest things as usual said yesterday in the assembly of the ANCI in Parma our president of the Republic Sergio Mattarella. It is with your words, that they do not need any comments, that I would like to conclude my speech. The Head of State said: The legitimate forms of dissent can never overcome the civic duty to protect the weakest. We must defeat the virus, not attack the instruments that fight it. I believe that these words, better than any other consideration that can make any of us, describe to us what is the challenge we face. It is a challenge that we can overcome, but we will only win if there is great compactness and cohesion on the part of the institutions and citizens in the fight against this pandemic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u94	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are here to adopt a life-saving measure. In fact, we must convert the decree that entered into force on 15 October, namely, we must extend the use of the green pass to access to public and private workplaces. Although it has the consent of a large part of the population, above all this decree-law has provoked protests and extreme positions, even in this House, as President Parrini has just mentioned. I want to remember here the ignoble images of the protesters of Novara, dressed like the deportees of the Nazi lagers. [[Applause]] Ignorants who do not know history, because they confuse the right to health in a state that wants to save your life with the vaccine, from a regime that has tainted itself with the worst crimes against humanity: the Shoah, the extermination of the Jewish people. Ladies and gentlemen, the green pass is the green light to be able to participate in the social life of the country, a tool that works, because it pushes to vaccinate. However, those who do not accept the vaccine, if they want to participate in social life, must take the swab. With regard to swabs, over the past few weeks he has argued whether or not it is appropriate to charge non-vaccine swabs. In the decree-law that we are approving, Article 4 provides for the obligation for pharmacies to apply the price-calmed for the administration of these rapid tests. It is a choice that we find ourselves on, even if there is always to be wondering why the parapharmacies cannot make the quick swab. However, the application of the price of the calmerate will also be ensured by the health facilities affiliated, authorized or accredited with the Health Service. Colleagues, as you know, during the examination in the Commission, as President Parrini has just said, the measure has been amended in several parts. When we voted on the amendments, we were not always on the same side as a majority supporting the Draghi Government. Some of these amendments have been passed by a limited majority. Of course, this is part of the normal parliamentary dialectic, but it is clear that the government must raise the question of how these measures are built, in relation to the majority and Parliament, thus building a synthesis that is actually such and balanced. It is enough to browse the newspapers and press agencies, to understand that we have not yet come out of the pandemic and indeed there is a re-emergence of the virus at European level. Certainly here, in Italy, things are better, because the Government has kept the bar straight and for this reason we can be less afraid than others, but in the countries close to ours the situation is worrying. In Austria, they launched a new selective lockdown for non-vacciners. What a green pass! Non-vacciners cannot enter shops, restaurants and ski slopes. Also in Germany they are concerned about the epidemiological situation, also because less than 70% of the population has been vaccinated and in the last twenty-four hours 40,000 people have been positive, twice a week ago, not to mention Britain, Romania, Serbia, Croatia and Bulgaria. It is clear that imposing on public and private workers the possession of certification for access to workplaces has meant a necessary turning point, in order to avoid the risk of new closures. The vaccination campaign is well advanced, but if we want to contain the number of infections and keep the number of admissions below the threshold we must convince the uncertain and push for the third dose if we do not want to give up social life again. To understand what we risk, it is enough to project only a moment back, last year, when, in this same period, we lived the nightmare of closures and the impossibility of traveling, moving and meeting friends and relatives. Do you remember Christmas with six seats at the table? The experts tell us that we are at the beginning of a fourth wave that, if we keep going straight, will be very different from the previous one and we can not give up our lives and continue to work safely. If we can handle the fourth wave better, it's because they're running vaccine and green passes, masks and spacers. However, it is clear that this fourth wave has a co-responsible: misinformation, fake news and refusal to vaccinate in countries where there is vaccine. This time, more than the others, there is the side effect of no vax and no green passes; it's not like last year, when we didn't have the vaccine yet. In Italy 83 percent of the population is vaccinated and 86 percent is partially protected, yet infection is increasing, while 2.5 million Italians have taken the third dose. (19.45) (Follow RUOTOLO). We have all seen the consequences, for example, of the demonstrations in Trieste, namely the increase in infection and hospitalization. Some Members say that the problem in Trieste is Slovenia, which is just a stone's throw away. I don't know. I know that the problem with Trieste is those 70,000 people not vaccinated out of 230,000 and that the famous parade of October 15 created an outbreak of 200 contagions. Today's data report nearly 8,000 contagions and 60 deaths, with the record of 1,000 cases in Veneto. Just yesterday President Mattarella said that no vax squares caused a dangerous increase in infection. It is therefore time not to give way to the squares, which are increasingly toxic to our democracy, where the rules are not respected (from distance, to masks), they give life to unauthorized marches and clashes with the Forces of Order, they shout "freedom, freedom" and they beat the journalists who have the duty to tell those demonstrations. Of course, we must guarantee the rights of those who disagree, but we also have a duty to ensure the health of citizens and citizens, whether vaccinated or not. So, yes to static demonstrations with masks worn. Parliament and all of us are called upon to point the way and we cannot tempt or be enchanted by the sirens of a misunderstanding of a sense of freedom. The consequences, in some European countries, of removing restrictions as soon as the data have been positive are before everyone's eyes. On the other hand, our Government has rightly chosen the path of a gradual reduction in restrictions and that is what we must continue to do. It's through the vaccinations that we're gonna get out of the pandemic. We must be aware, however, that the pandemic will continue until the poor countries receive the vaccines they need. Think that less than 5% of the population has been vaccinated in Africa. Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in concluding my speech, I am voting in favour of the confidence of the senators and senators of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u97	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by trying to make an operation of truth and clarity, to give an idea of how we approach this issue and of the reasons for which we support without whether or not the action of the Government and we share, from the beginning to the end, all the measures made necessary to counter or to prevent the spread of Covid. We also realize, even if we do not share them, some reasons supported by those who believe that they do not have to or do not want to vaccinate, probably because for the first time in the history of the civil world a vaccine has been fired in a few months, while the other vaccines have had years of testing and experimentation and this creates doubts. To these fellow citizens, we want to say that there is no vaccine that totally excludes the possibility of side effects, indeed I would say that there is no medicine that excludes side effects, just read the liars of any pack to know the side effects of the product. Our position is due to the fact that, by putting potential risks on the balance - only continuous experimentation and time will show us what these side effects can be and if they are contrastable - with the positive effects, the balance depends on the side of health protection. Our position is the result of the awareness of the nearly 140,000 deaths we have had in less than two years, it is the result of the consideration that the international health bodies for Europe have predicted, until February, half a million deaths for the Covid and that national scientific experts predict a contagion that will amount to 15,000 cases monthly and beyond. On the other hand, I believe that the Government's efforts to protect health and the right to work must be appreciated, but they have also sought to protect free will, i.e. the possibility of those who believe that they do not vaccinate not to do so, without hindering and without inflaming the rights of those who have freely chosen to do so. This decree-law poses precisely this problem, so it states that if we want to maintain employment levels and boost employment, the only way to do so at this time is the vaccine. I would like to say to my colleagues who have mentioned some scientific positions which do not go exactly in the sense of what we believe, that when a health problem arises, between a restrictive thesis and an extensive one, we must lean on the restrictive one if there is no scientific evidence that totally excludes the need to resort to these systems. The worker, therefore, is not obliged to vaccinate, but must know that if he does not vaccinate and submit to the buffer, he does not lose his job, he is not sanctioned in a disciplinary way, but he is suspended from his salary. The worker can remedy this situation by subjecting himself to the buffer. Here too, I want to make it very clear that the buffer must be an expense to him, because the State guarantees him vaccination free of charge, which is a useful tool to be able to fight and to defend himself against the virus. [[Applause]] A rule of law such as ours also grants the possibility to those who do not think in this way of manifesting, but manifesting does not mean blocking the historical centers, does not mean blocking economic activities, does not mean attacking the police and the forces of order, does not mean limiting the rights and freedoms of those who have instead been subjected to the vaccine. [[Applause]] It can be manifested, we respect the minority and the minorities, but in the same way minorities must respect the majorities, because this provides for democracy. [[Applause]] Another thing I want to say to the many Cassandra: let's stop looking at what happens in other states when they take measures that seem less repressive than ours, let's be proud of what our country has done, which is not the result of good luck, but of commitment, of sense of responsibility, of just synthesis between politics and scientific evidence. [[Applause]] And today, if there are countries like Germany or England looking at Italy as an example to imitate, obviously the sacrifices we made were not useless. [[Applause]] Our position is in favour of vaccination for another reason. Not only do we not look at what happens abroad and try to be proud of what we have been able to do, but we also think of those territories of the globe that do not have the possibility, even if we want to, to be able to vaccinate because they do not have the financial resources. [[Applause]] This is really a blasphemy. I will not say it in an angry way like my colleague Pagano, but I say it with the same conviction and with the same decision. [[Applause]] Our position is without if and without but in favour of a carpeted vaccination campaign - I want to say it to some colleagues - and it is not the result of self-harm, but it is a conscious choice, which wants to prevent definitively, if there were the possibility, to return to the lockdown, which has blocked the entrepreneurial activities and the job. [[Applause]] We have suffered damage and its consequences and we no longer want to return to the same conditions. We didn't get out of the tunnel: we see a light and we see it thanks to vaccination and green pass. Surely it is not the touchiness; it is not an instrument that totally immunizes us from the Covid, but one thing is certain: it drastically reduces the negative consequences of the infection and tries to loosen a weight that had become unsustainable towards our health care, because there is not only covid in our country, but also urgent interventions and oncology interventions need to be carried out just like everyone else. There is absolute sharing on the government line. We have, however, heard critical positions expressed in this House by some of our colleagues. We do not totally share them, but two deserve attention. The first relates to immigration. You might wonder what immigration has to do with Covid's defense. It's got a lot to do with it. Beyond the usual consideration that our country cannot have on its shoulders alone the weight of desperate people who think they find Eldorado, but it must be Europe, if it is true that it is united, to take responsibility for this phenomenon, there is another consideration: today illegal immigration becomes an uncontrollable vehicle of contamination that we cannot afford and, therefore, we invite the Government to take serious positions on this problem. Another consideration that we share among the many sayings that, on the other hand, do not agree with us is that, when you ask for the respect of the law and the rules, this must apply to everyone, even to the protesters of the rave parties, who must respect the laws. It cannot be said that, in order to avoid problems of public order, it is allowed to those gentlemen who organize them what they want, because it is not a correct example and I do not believe that 10,000 people arrive at the meeting places at the same time. President, I would have avoided the matter of trust. It is true that in the first Commission, where the measure has been deepened, there have been differences, but I believe that the sense of responsibility has always prevailed. And I say that in the interest not of the government, but of Parliament. It was right for everyone in this House, in front of the citizens, to assume their responsibilities, free to say their own positions, but also free to refute them in a scientific and political way. This was not possible and it is a pity, because a rule of parliamentary democracy has been violated. Nevertheless, on the subject, we share and urge the Government to move forward on this path and we will vote strongly in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u100	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, let us be clear: the League is for a full and convinced yes to the vaccination plan, the success of which is, together with the economic recovery, the reason why we entered this government. The League is also for a full and convinced yes to the green pass, if intended as a tool to guarantee openings and to reduce the spread of the contagion - in this case - within the workplace. [[Applause]] We do not share, however, a forced use of the green pass as a means to forcefully induce vaccination, introducing a masked obligation surreptitious. That is not why it was set up. Do you remember the European green pass? Probably not, because you are Europeanists with alternate plates, only when it suits you. Vaccines and swabs go hand in hand, hand in hand, and both are - or should be - a tool for ensuring free movement. There is no need for an imposition, also because we are now close to 90 percent of vaccinees; a remaining 10 percent physiological, quota that we can find in every vaccination campaign, and this happens for various reasons: by choice, by fear, by lack of knowledge. The first doses are now virtually zeroed and this 10 percent we can reduce only by informing and convincing, not showing the muscles. Realize that by forcing the situation, you will not increase the vaccinees, but you will get the opposite effect. I don't defend those people. My opinion is that they are wrong, but I respect them and try to understand their reasons. I'm telling you as a strong supporter of the vaccine. I immediately vaccinated myself, as soon as I opened my age group, and my underage son is vaccinated. I come from the province of Lodi, that of Codogno and, therefore, I know well the danger of Covid-19: I saw it with my own eyes on the most terrible days. Together with my colleague Simone Bossi, who sits next to me, from the neighbouring province of Cremona, I was the first senator to be locked in the house and not on a beach of Puglia or, like you of PD, I did not take the plane to come to Milan on the Navigli to have an aperitif or I did not get photographed while I was swallowing up with spring rolls. [[Applause]] I repeat: it is wrong to force your hand, because this will accentuate tension. In the Commission we have dealt with this measure with the aim of improving it, because no decree-law is born perfect and all collect adjustments along their conversion process. We have done this by supporting the application of the green pass where it is needed, but by proposing to limit its application where it is not used to reduce contagion, with the aim of facilitating its serious and shared use, with interventions aimed - for example - at reducing queues in front of pharmacies and, indirectly, reducing costs for the State. I say this because I don't want to believe - although many people outside of here think so - that what drives you is the desire to fatten the profits of Pfizer and the tampons manufacturers. In order to come to some of the topics that we propose, I am talking - for example - about outdoor work, those in solitary or remote. I ask you: if you can stay outdoors in a restaurant, without green passes and without mask, why do you want to impose this obligation on those who cut wood in the mountains, on those who keep the lighthouse in full solitude or on those who work from home connected to the net? What is the risk of spreading the infection? No one. The same applies to young people who do outdoor sports without contact. What are the risks of being infected or infected by playing tennis, where the nearest person is 20 metres away, or by cross-country skiing in the woods? And we know, in any case, the low impact that any Covid-19 infection has on young people. Being underage, they cannot choose independently whether to vaccinate. So, you are creating conflicts in families and, as a result, also costs for tampons. In this case, expose those guys even to long queues in the cold, in front of the pharmacies, maybe surrounded by dozens of people not vaccinated and maybe removing the slot in the pharmacy to those who need it to go to work the next day to earn the loaf. That doesn't make any sense! [[Applause]] You know what we're gonna get? We will have young people who, for this reason, will stop playing sports and that is bad. We have made common sense proposals and you have rejected everything, only by reading the signature of the amendment and with reasons that make you laugh. You have given an opinion against even an agenda that asked for a price-calming of tampons at the pharmacy, a measure that the government has already taken. You haven't even read them! [[Applause]] League Amendment? Against! You want to be fierce. Your philosophy is to punish and isolate. You prove it all the time, with a vengeful and vexatory anger, typical of those who use their muscles and not their brains. Your motto is trouble for the losers. A strong pro vax tells you: you're pulling too much rope. Sooner or later it breaks. Instead of uniting, you want to divide. Discriminate, and you seem to enjoy it. For 20 years I've heard you talk about not discriminating against minorities, and now you're the first to do so. You've come to discriminate even on culture. Those who have the green pass can borrow books for free in the library; the others go to the library to buy them, as if the virus then made a difference between one building and another. I'm telling you in sincerity. You think you're great statesmen, but you're just little despots. You've come to deny the foundations of medicine. Deny that the natural immunity of those cured by Covid-19 is stronger and longer lasting than that induced by vaccine. Deny that the millions healed but not traced are equal to the official healed traced by positive or negative buffer. When the politician renounces his role, which is to make common sense choices, as a good family father, but instead acts as a stepmother, it is the beginning of the end of democracy. [[Applause]] When you abdicate and leave your choices to cold, gray and dull ministerial bureaucrats, who respond to who knows what logic and certainly not to that of representing the people, it is the beginning of a regime. Stop this attitude of yours. Stop while you're in time. Only positive things, because I am an incurable optimist, is the approval of our proposal to consider the buffer valid until the end of the shift, bringing it in fact from forty-eight to fifty-six hours of duration, as well as the acceptance of our agenda which commits the Government to establish the criteria to establish the end of the emergency and restrictive measures. 20.09 (Augussori follow). If sacrifices are called for, we must be transparent and give a clear perspective that defines when this is over. If there is this clarity, it is due only to the insistent battles of the League in the Commission. [[Applause]] For the rest, nothing. We started from a mediocre decree-law, with flaws in several parts, and we ended with an even worse law of conversion, deaf and blind even before the evidence. Let us come to the explanation of vote. Mr President, if we were to have a free vote on the substance of the measure, our choice would be taken for granted. Faced, however, with a vote of confidence, with the sole intention of not leaving you free hand and free field to make further forcings, we confirm our presence and trust in the Government of President Draghi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u103	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is the country that more than anyone else in Europe and perhaps in the world is setting an example of the correct and rigorous management of the pandemic. We have demonstrated this from the outset with a political approach given by the former President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte, who laid his foundations on scientific data. And we continue to demonstrate this even today, in spite of those who, since the beginning of the pandemic, fought one day against the openings and the other against the closures, or contested the extension of the state of emergency and then said that the emergency had not been handled properly. Today the proof of what I have said is seen in the difficulties that other countries are experiencing with deaths and contagions on the increase, to which they are trying to remedy exactly as Italy has done, with the difference that Italy has opted for the green pass before the arrival of the fourth wave, while other countries are doing it now, in full new wave of contagions. The measure under consideration is certainly not easy to digest for many Italians: the green pass is the tool of Italy's restart. There are no better alternatives on the table, but in the world of work there have been serious problems and it is not ignoring them that a political solution is offered. We have also seen the many demonstrations taking place in our country, between peaceful expressions of dissent and rather unacceptable behaviour. There is a level of tension that worries and everyone's commitment to the relaxation of tension is necessary. What inspired and guided our amending action was the need not to exacerbate the social conflicts, already present and very often latent in our country, and to foresee initiatives that could not aggravate the economic situation of workers through measures, although necessary, introduced by the decree-law. Most people have made the vaccine, as proof of the great national responsibility and today, as the only inconvenience, they have to show their green certificate when requested. Those who are not vaccinated can get it with the test, the price of which has long been low and which, with an agenda approved in the Commission, can cost even less for families with low incomes. In addition, we have worked to clarify once and for all the validity of the green pass within the shift: it is sufficient that the certificate is valid at the beginning of the working day to allow the worker to carry out his shift regularly. We have then discussed for a long time two fundamental issues: the first concerns serological tests for the cured by Covid, and the second is open-air workers. For both of us we have obtained the approval of two commitments to the Government: in the case of the cured by Covid, the Executive undertakes by December 31 to carry out a study that can lead to the extension or exemption from the green pass for those who, thanks to the natural immunity consequent to the contagion, have the presence of neutralising anti-Covid antibodies in quantity equal to or greater to a threshold value established by the Ministry of Health. On the open-air workers' front, unfortunately, we have not received such answers from the Government that we can exempt from the green pass those who, working in open places, have no contact with third parties. In this case too, however, we managed to have a commitment approved by the Government to carry out a survey of the working categories whose services are carried out exclusively outdoors or in individual form, so as to be able to exempt the worker from the possession and display of the green certificate. The same we did and got for the work from home, the so-called teleworking. The attention we are having today for the health of Italians is maximum and we cannot lower our guard. That social pact that has existed since the beginning of the pandemic between institutions and citizens must continue today. The fight against this virus is not yet over and, in order to avoid a new rise of the dead, of the serious sick and of the contagions, we must continue to keep the level of attention high. And the green pass, despite the inconveniences and angers it caused in some Italian citizens, is a tool for this fight. In the speeches heard in this House, we have been talking about injury to rights, failure to observe the Constitutional Charter, obligations or less vaccinations, and the need for the green pass. Despite all the different opinions - we mean very respectable - we can say that, with vaccines and with the green pass, we have returned to almost normal. In this very delicate phase, which some have defined as the beginning of the fourth wave of the epidemic, Italy is fortunately suffering less than other countries. This, however, does not justify any attempt to lower the guard, nor does it justify taking an uncritical attitude towards the choices of the Government. On the basis of scientific findings and the progress of epidemiological data, in fact, we have asked and obtained that a clear strategy be adopted, communicated in good time, on the permanence or not of the state of emergency, as well as on the use of the green pass, to show that it must be clear that the green pass must serve only if necessary. Today it is: it is a measure that has placed Italy in a state-of-the-art position in the world and secured the country. For the future, Mr President, any evaluation can only be the result of a rigorous analysis of the data. For all these reasons he announced the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars to the provision. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u105	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u106	Mr Paragon (Misto-I-PVU). Mr President, Britain does not have a green pass, but it has an economy that grows by 6.5% and, therefore, the story of the green pass that is needed to revive the economy, drink it yourself. You don't care about growth: you are interested in companies working, so you won't have to pay them the refreshments and above all you can ask entrepreneurs for all the taxes, all the debit cards and everything that was previously suspended. Britain does not close because their Committee of Inquiry, which you in Italy do not want because you are afraid of the truth, supports with serious studies the choice of Boris Johnson, so much so that the British newspapers no longer speak of Covid. Only in Italy the serum is allowed to squeak. People who have done Brexit, figure out how much they don't care about your nonsense. Britain doesn't have a green pass and doesn't have masks. Britain does not have people in the streets to demonstrate in defense of freedom, rights and work, because beyondhand, no one has thought of evading rights. Above all, Britain does not have a commissioner like that of Milan who says that Saturday at the demonstrations we will see another film. Tell the commissioner he's not John Wayne. If anything happens in the squares of Italy, this Government and the majority will answer. You're setting society on fire because that's all you have left. Your lies are coming to the end of the line and you will notice when you touch our youngest children. Your consent to the multinational drug will not save you. In the green pass there is your distorted idea of democracy, divided citizens, unfettered rights, conditional freedom. The spontaneous vaccine is your perfect citizen. Big Pharma makes the profits without risk, you can tell the story of the salvific serum and, if then someone dies, it is the fault of those who chose to vaccinate because no one was obliged. In return, however, those who line up for three will have the right to work and to live social life. Not bad. This pass reminds those of the DDR; one wall fell, another always makes it. How you have reduced yourselves, ladies and gentlemen. Dragons is the most dangerous subject you could choose and I think that Cossiga was right when he called him a vile businessman. The Commission of Inquiry is an obligation. [[Senator Paragon shows a sign bearing the inscription "Sereni." We want a Commission of Inquiry.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u107	I would ask you first of all to use appropriate terms and not to expose any shirts or anything like that.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u108	I refer to the vote on amendment 1.8000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 127 of 21 September 2021 on the approval of which the Government has put - I add and I take responsibility for it - once again the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will be able to vote exclusively from his own place - I repeat, from his own place and not from the hemicycle - by declaring his own vote. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Bini is drawn by lot.) Please take your seats. I thank the quaestor senators for their help. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Bini. GIRO, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - at 8.48 p.m.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1.8000 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 127 of 21 September 2021 on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 238 Senators voting 237 Majority 119 Favourites 199 Contrars 38 Absent 0]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 127.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u109	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-377.ana.u110	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 11 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.56 p.m.
