ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Mr Senators, I would like to address a strong thought of closeness to our Sicilian fellow citizens, who have been fighting against the devastating effects of the violent storm that hit the eastern coast of Sicily for days. An apocalyptic scenario, which in a few hours has overwhelmed, with incredible violence, roads, homes, offices, things and people, and which has already caused death. To their families goes the emotional embrace of this Assembly and of the whole country. An emergency that, as evidenced by the images that come, in particular, from Sicily, has become more and more serious with the passing of the hours. The area of Catania, which has always been a treasure chest of art and architectural treasures, is completely flooded, from the slopes of Etna to the central Piazza del Duomo, thus adding to the human tragedy the incalculable drama to the population and territory. Hundreds are the interventions already carried out by the fire department to rescue the citizens, free the roads, secure the buildings. There are no words to praise their incredible work, as well as to thank all the rescuers, from civil protection personnel to law enforcement, to all volunteers who are working tirelessly to ensure the full functioning of hospitals and the continuity of essential services. The flood that is scourged Sicily must sound like a strong alarm bell and draw attention to the need for a clear and urgent strategy on the prevention of hydrogeological risks, because in Italy that starts and rebuilds after the pandemic, you can no longer tolerate bridges that collapse or died from landslides, floods and floods. A strategy aimed at rethinking, renewing and above all consolidating the entire national infrastructural heritage and creating the conditions to prevent the tragic effects of natural disasters, such as the one that is coming down on Sicily and those that in recent years have hit Piedmont, Liguria, Veneto, Trentino, Tuscany, Emilia Romagna, Lazio, Calabria and many other regions of Italy, causing mourning and destruction. A reflection that I would like to share in this House, in the belief that really securing places and citizens is the only answer that as institutions and Parliament we must give to a national emergency that can no longer be underestimated. In memory of the broken lives in Sicily, as well as of all the victims of the environmental tragedies that have marked our country, I invite the Senate Assembly to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law n. 2005, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Boldrini and Hope MPs; Zan and others; Scalfarotto and others; Perantoni and others; Bartolozzi. Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the high level of representation of which makes us understand the importance of the moment and of the measure, this branch of Parliament is showing little sensitivity and I regret the fact that we have to make such an intervention on a subject such as the one we are debating today. Poor sensitivity, first of all, to the sensitivity and desire of the common people, the one who lives outside the Palace, who observes what happens inside and wonders about the dynamics that guide our works and who, above all, often struggles to understand those dynamics or does not understand them at all. Poor sensitivity today also manifests towards those who think differently from us, but are nevertheless available to a serious and tight confrontation in order to find the right solution that allows to approve the bill in question. The theme that we face is extremely delicate, touches the conscience and sensitivity of each of us. It is a bill of which we have been talking for years, discussing a subject on which rivers of words have been spent, there have been conferences of all kinds, debates, writings and speeches in newspapers and in the media, all aimed at affirming the absolute need to give protection to those people who often, I would say too often, are humiliated, mocked and made subject to physical and verbal violence. Themes on which those who speak to you, as well as my party's friends, have always fought to offer adequate protection. We have been accused, during the process of this law in the Senate that has been going on for months, of wanting to bring it down simply because we have repeatedly represented the danger of what is actually happening. We had represented that laws of this magnitude and of this delicacy, which touch, as I said, the sensitivity of all, cannot be approved by majority shots. We said, sometimes we shouted that it was necessary to confront and seek the right mediation to give the country a law that is widely felt necessary. We have obtained only answers based on purely ideological positions even by the Groups within which - and this is the fact that it is perplexed - colleagues are notoriously coexisting who think differently between themselves and who in recent months had asked for the mediations I have spoken about to be compared and found. [[Applause]] It is a battle of civilization and, as such, this law must or should find general sharing. Until yesterday many people have said "Zan" or "nothing" with a clear provocative attitude towards those who, on the contrary, manifested their willingness to confront and dialogue. Yesterday morning there was finally the turning point thanks to the intervention of Secretary Enrico Letta who wisely, I must say also wisely, invited the parties to a confrontation in order to avoid a useless count in the Chamber of which we do not know the outcome. Even this inexplicably proposal, since it comes from a political secretary of a large party, has ended up in nothing for the perching on various positions of those people who evidently prefer to run the risk of not approving the law in order not to sit around a table and discuss to seek the shared solution that is certainly at the hands of all of us. I want to point out that, if we want to make good policy, we cannot say in such a situation that they are making fun of us. I will not tolerate this; if they are teasing us, we must have the courage to remove the alibis to those who are doing it; we must face them with an open face and confront ourselves, without saying so or anything because we have come to this situation. We have lost months and in the meantime people are accusing us of doing nothing and if the law is not passed, then of course the cross-cutting accusations will begin, towards this or that political group, pretending - I stress the word pretending - to ignore that, as I said, within each political group that sits in this House many people think otherwise. Only then can shared positions arise from comparison. People who think otherwise will not accept impositions from above; either they can say that we have to approve the law at all costs or it will be really difficult to come to a solution. Well, people outside don't understand anymore; these clashing dynamics, these political dynamics don't understand them anymore. Meanwhile, the weakest will still remain unprotected and those who use physical and verbal violence against those subjects will remain unpunished once again. Someone will have to take responsibility for the situation that is being created, because it is being created wisely and consciously. At this point, all I have left is an exhortation to do really loudly: colleagues, let us stop. We still have time for mediation; we still have time for confrontation. Let's stop! We're missing an opportunity that's hardly coming back. We have come to a point that is objectively one step away from the conclusion, so let us try to re-appropriate good policy for once; let us try to restore dignity to our work and also give dignity to those behaviors that have all too often, especially in recent times, been developed in this House. Let's face it, let's find the right solutions, let's adopt a good law to protect the weak, who always ask for help in a clear and squeaky way. At least today, we show that for once we can follow up the words with concrete facts, and above all we show that we still know the good practices of politics. If we miss this opportunity - believe me - today we mark a dark page in the history of this Parliament, because we are objectively perched on ideological positions in a clear and clear way - I repeat, we are one step away from the solution - and I think it will be clear that someone no longer wants to pursue good policy and good practice. Once again I scream: let's stop, we have time, let's try. If we don't, it means we've just lost a week or ten days, but for months we've been bickering, yelling, insulting, accusing each other. It is time to finish it; it would be time to finish it, especially on issues of this magnitude. If my cry is not heard, which is indeed a cry of concern for the final outcome and, above all, for the image we are giving this Parliament, it will mean that we have completely abandoned ourselves to a situation which is objectively absolutely incomprehensible and from which we will only be able to reap disastrous results. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u7	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u8	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we come to a stage in the debate in which it is absolutely appropriate to remind ourselves of the stages that preceded it. First of all, we had a long stage in the Justice Commission in which the debate was held hostage, with numerically abnormal hearings that, instead of being a deepening, an exaltation of the moment of debate and the parliamentary role, of the instruments of understanding, have often been used as instruments of obstruction. We have fought against all this and have continued to bring matters into discussion, including within the various parliamentary groups, on a draft law which is a very important step forward. We fought for this bill to come to this House and for Parliament to play its full part in a very noble matter, regardless of the views of each of us, that of the rights of the person, the inviolability of the rights of the person and his choices. This is a draft law against discrimination. What better opportunity for every Member - and not the political forces, with their political positions and positions - to freely confront and exercise their role, enshrined in the Constitution? This is an anti-discrimination measure against hate crimes. We have heard everything, but I would like to reiterate that in the end we are going back to simplicity. It is a law that wants to protect; it is not a bill that wants to promote behavior or that demands adherence to behavior or choice. It is a bill that wants to protect in a society where hate actions, social violence and the forms of lynching people, in various ways, are increasing. Can we remain insensitive and use these opportunities merely for ideological positions or even for instrumental battles? But how far is this House, if it acts, from the squares that have seen the mobilization of so many young people and citizens? How much do we measure the distance from politicism and the common feeling that calls for a position, to be able to discuss and to erect protection against violence and the civilization of the law as protection against oppression? But where are we? I have the impression that we are not discussing any legitimate doubts, formulations and the best way of expressing this protection. I have the impression that this is not the subject of the debate if today a newspaper newspaper published on the front page - and so let's get to the point - the title: Today a trap can get rid of the Zan Act. That's the point. Today we want to look for an opportunity to get rid of a law with an act of violence. Is this Parliament's function in the face of a demand for rights protection? Are we resigning from the discussion? Today the request is one: to allow Parliament to continue this debate and to take the determinations that are its own. We are at a time when the amendments have been tabled. We have the opportunity to look into the matter and start a debate on which we have put a single condition, namely that no one can be left behind. It cannot be the subject of the debate to choose who to protect and who not. [[Applause]] That's the point. On this we cannot ask to make Sophie's choice about who is to be protected and who is not. This is acceptable to me, but it also seems to me that we do not want to discuss this. Before the local election break, I prepared some notes, which I now find difficult to re-read in the light of my time, the freedom of opinion, the legal definition, what the Constitutional Court has decided in terms of gender identity, what violence is, and the fact that this law does not take anything away from anyone. I repeat, it doesn't take anything away from anyone. We have a tradition of laws passed in Italy to protect rights, on which we have often discussed in these terms; then it was understood that nothing was taken away from anyone. However, I realize that the subject of the debate today is in danger of not being this. The object of today's debate is to get rid of a law, perhaps to mark some points. I appeal to all the individual members of this House, because I would feel that it is very serious for the individual members to resign from their role, which is to address the issues, to discuss them, even by dividing themselves on the options, but fully exercising this role. But above all it would be a discharge from the relationship with all citizens, including those who have expressed criticism, who expect these criticisms to be discussed and do not expect that, by a violent act, this law cannot be discussed in this House. Look at the fact that celebrating the centrality of Parliament and this Senate, often with great rhetoric, clashes with a decision of this kind, that is, with the threat of bringing this law to death, as the title of that newspaper headline says. This is a very serious separation from democracy; it is a turning back on the citizens, those who have filled the streets and those who have raised criticism; everyone expects a debate and a stand. This is a betrayal of democracy. From this point of view, my appeal goes to all the senators to fully exercise their role and restore Parliament's role without incurring any real betrayal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u9	Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u10	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking up the debate on the draft law which is briefly called Zan, but which I believe is more appropriate to call, in this House and elsewhere, for its purpose: to combat discrimination or violence by sex, gender and disability. A battle of civilization that involves everyone - I repeat: everyone - and that should not instead open up different fronts between good and bad or between progressives and conservatives. It seems at least reductive to say that the text must be accepted as it is, otherwise it is against respect for human rights. I am proud to be part of a human rights party that has fought since its birth. For us at Forza Italia, rights are a priority, as a priority is respect for the Constitution and our institutions. One of the things that is often read, especially in the many e-mails I have received in recent months, is that, if this House were to approve even one amendment, the text of the bill will have to go back to the House to be approved again, thus invalidated a year of work. Yes, the second reading in the House is considered invalid. This argument is offensive to our role and the sacredness of the legislative initiative, as referred to in Rule 70 of the Constitutional Act, which has been mentioned in this House on several occasions. Now what? Now this connection to the constitutional dictation becomes more irritating. The Senate has equal right, which also becomes a duty, to modify the text of any bill that is discussed within it. I also fully agree with the desire to finally give Italy a law on hate crimes. It is necessary, precisely in order not to forget the fear of those who have made extreme gestures because of the hatred of others, the desire for freedom and serenity of those who have been driven out of the house and disowned because of their sexual orientation and the silence of those who every day receive harassment and violence. But, precisely because there is to be respected them, we must finally approve a text worthy of its mission; precisely because - as Mrs Masini recalled in July - we have tried to pass similar laws for twenty-five years without ever succeeding. Colleagues, we know that politics is mediation; if we really want to adopt laws, they must be the result of mediation. We see it every day in the Commission first and then in this House. Using, instead, the narrative of the good against the bad, you do nothing but push away a necessary law, a law that a civil country absolutely needs. For this measure we need a step of courage from all political forces and certainly did not take clear and intransigent positions. I am sure that each of us would like to be part of a historic moment for our country by making our contribution. Let's make this possible. I am convinced for a world full of colors, even if today I am dressed in black, and not only black and white, both because I really love to surround myself with colors for the joy and serenity that they manage to transmit, but especially because it is the same nature that gives us an unlimited quantity. Often, however, to be able to catch them, a little more effort is needed than just a first glance. Colleagues, let's make sure this look to capture all the colors is really possible. The condition for being human is to be and feel free without the risk of being persecuted for it. Our role is to allow this through legislative paths that go against any obstacles to freedom. In politics, as in life, the most beautiful words are deeds. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ostellari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has told us many times about this measure, but it is worth repeating a few passages and concepts. We worked for months in the Commission and the work done there was difficult, but it was intended to do an essential and decisive thing for any kind of measure, especially for such an important one, that we want to give the country. I am referring to the need to open up to comparison: hearings opposed by many parties were necessary to bring out some legal issues that everyone recognizes in the measure today. Among the main legal issues is certainly the one related to Article 1 on definitions. I read you some passages that are not of the League, of some party or of some subject that has a particular political interest, but of subjects who came to the Commission that made their participation, their idea and their qualified thinking. As regards the definitions of Article 1, someone said that they are very fragile bases on which the whole bill is based. Above all, it is risky that the State assumes that it can determine what man is in its own sexual identity, in its typical desires and orientations. That's what Professor Gianandrea Di Donna said. To the famous article 4 I quote Giovanni Maria Flick. There is a risk that a standard of the type "I will only protect you if" will be created. This would end up reducing freedom in this area, although there is a contrary intention to extend it. There are those who ask: what is the dangerous technical error in Article 4 of this bill? It is to restrict the scope of the crime only to this form of discrimination and not to others. Again in article 4, Professor Cesare Mirabelli says: It is not possible to use the concept of "suitability" in the evaluation of an idea, who knows when, how and for what purpose expressed, and to transform that idea into a criminal offence. Even Professor Mirabelli, on Article 7, pointed out that the freedom of school and teaching, the educational direction of parents and the international commitments of the State are necessary for us to continue to ensure. We also recall the passage of the verbal note of the Secretariat of State of the Holy See, which basically recalled the need to affirm the full freedom of the Catholic Church to carry out her mission. That's what he asked. In the face of these speeches, we have asked several times to find us and to be able to close a text that could obtain the majority. As Pierluigi Battista also recalled, in this country we must try to get out of dualism. We have good parts and bad parts, which are thus identified by someone: there are the good ones and the bad ones: one against the other. I say no. Here are not only the good and bad: we have to get out of this dualism. In this House, and also in our Commission, I have witnessed the presence of a large majority who are absolutely willing to find a summary on the legal issues we have just seen: Articles 1, 4 and 7. That majority, however, could not reach an agreement because of those who want to polarize, of those who want to find only the division between good and bad. The positions, therefore, are not these. The positions are different, the positions in this House have reached - we have seen this - the possibility of finding a synthesis and that synthesis is perceived, we can also hear it in the meetings we have tried to make several times, even yesterday, at the table we have convened. In fact, the difference is linked only to the desire to find a solution to what everyone has determined as a need for legal intervention in order to protect the freedoms of all and to improve a text that someone does not want to touch at all. [[Applause]] That's the truth. This was what we had to do and we wanted to do. The majority of this House wants to find a solution that is useful to the country against violence, against discrimination. We have repeated several times that we want to do so. That is the objective we want to achieve, but we must do it with the useful and fair instrument, which is legally unassailable, in order to guarantee everyone and not because we absolutely must defend a text. If that text presents legal difficulties, legal problems, it must be changed: we are called to do this, it is our mission. Therefore, even with regard to yesterday's meeting, it is quite frankly unacceptable that some parties - in this case the PD - have put a condition: either they remove the reference - so called by them, but it is only an amendment - or they do not sit at the table and talk about the substance. Faced with this proposal, despite the availability of the League, of Forza Italia and Italia Viva, of those who were present at that table, to move today's vote, to sit around the table and find mediation on those three points, someone said no. This denial has a first and last name: it is the PD that says no [[Applause]] The Democratic Party says no to a postponement and, therefore, to the possibility of finding a synthesis on those three points. This is what we recorded, this is the objective truth. Faced with this, today we can only take note of a situation and give a voice to what I previously called the majority of this Parliament: the majority of this House wants a law that protects everyone. Let's do it together. So let's abandon that path, since someone doesn't want to face it loyally. Let's go ahead and produce, so... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u13	Senator, your time is up. You may submit the text of your speech for publication in the Annex to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause]] Senator Barboni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that, at least as far as we can see today, the attitude towards this draft law has partly changed. So far, in fact, anyone who dared only to overshadow some doubts, even legitimate, about the content of some articles, at least was identified as a obscurantist or, at worst, as a homophobe, with so much recording of his opinions and broadcast on social media. In recent months, other people have joined this path: I think - for example - Mr Mantovano, who dared to comment in a book on the article of the Zan bill, also considering the critical issues; a book that had to disappear from the bookshelves. The best fate in the comments - as President Ostellari also recalled earlier - did not affect the Secretariat of State of the Holy See, which simply did its duty: being a concordat State, he simply recalled that some regulatory provisions of the bill, in his opinion, went to violate the Concordat Pacts. In these months, therefore, we have experienced a sort of witch hunting climate, also seasoned by at least strange statements [[Applause]] Someone also said that the bill in question saves lives. Well, if a bill saves lives, there must obviously be a normative hole; if there is a normative hole, even if there is the possibility of saving one life, even if in power and not in action, it must be filled with the decree of urgency. I believe that if during all this period - fourteen months of the Red Yellow Government with so many decrees - it was not considered to intervene on the matter, perhaps it is because, probably, this provision does not save lives, as someone said. Then, if this measure does not save lives, but perhaps protects rights, I believe there is a more important problem in the country at the moment, that of the economic crisis. We live a pandemic and we are still fully within it. We live the post-Pandemic economic crisis: I believe that this is the priority of government action. In any event, there are already rules on this matter which protect situations which are further specified by the legal article. Therefore, since there is no vulnus, since there is no vacacy law, the existing rules can continue to apply. Since there is no urgency, it is our job to claim ownership of parliamentary action. Since the beginning of the legislature the Chambers have been transformed into a sort of organs for the decree of urgency with monocameralism trust. As long as the arguments discussed at the beginning were discussed, doubts could arise. During the pandemic crisis, however, I believe that this way of proceeding was a due act. In the face of the draft legislation and at least the acts of parliamentary initiative, however, we regain our role. Our function is simply to state the criticalities of the text. Then, on the criticalities of the text, Article 4 must certainly be mentioned, which must be amended, in order to leave the possibility for people to freely express their opinions. I quote an example from an interview by Mr Zan. At the request of a journalist, if, at the time of the adoption of the law bearing his name, one would still have the right to believe that a man declaring himself a woman is not a woman and if, with such a law, to say so on television would have been considered an incitement to hatred, Mr Zan replied no, but remains an attitude of disrespect and, in any case, decides the judge. In my opinion, the judicial balkanization of ideas and freedom of expression is something to be avoided. Another question is the one related to Article 7, paragraph 3, which attempts, surreptitiously, to introduce gender culture into schools. [[Applause]] In the school of a secular and concordat state like ours, in which the hour of religion becomes optional and where, rightly, we can also open up to an education that prepares future generations for a multi-ethnic and multilateral world, I think it is useful and important to address all the issues. These issues, however, must inevitably be agreed with the criterion of the paideia of our children and with families. Introduce them surreptitiously on the day against discrimination is a point to review. [[Applause]] In the final analysis, we, as a political force, as Forza Italia, have always expressed different opinions and different sensibilities within us, even during the debate held. In any case, we are a political force open to confrontation and dialogue. So let us take up the invitation of some colleagues from the majority who are sitting on the other side of the House to sit around a table and find a wording of law that does not increase crimes, that ensures rights and protects them, but that guarantees the freedoms of all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u15	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Antonio is 16 years old and has been repeatedly humiliated by his peers because he is gay. Even in Cosmo and Max burned the car and were victims of homophobic attention. Paola is trans and has been insulted in a bar in Pavia in the indifference of customers. Giulio is a 13-year-old boy who read homophobic writings in his own school. Antonio, Cosimo, Max, Paola and Giulio are just some of the people who are victims of hate crimes, victims of homolesbobytransphobia. They are not just names: they are people who have the right to have instruments of protection. They could be our children, they could be our friends, they could be our relatives, and they are in many cases. And it is precisely from this human point of view that we must start to understand that extending the case of hate crimes also to homophobic and transphobic discrimination is simply right. Italy, in the ranking of the Rainbow Europe map, is at 23rd place in twenty-seven countries, in the estimate that every year it is done with respect to the adequacy of the legislative system to the policies adopted to avoid hate phenomena. Eurobarometer also confirms that, among the advanced countries, we are really at the last places. We are not yet able to accept that homosexuals and heterosexuals really have the same rights and freedoms and can truly live free from fear. The data confirm this: we still have a huge job to do - and we should do it from this House - to absorb the cultural backwardness still rampant in the country. We are 25 years behind ourselves, because twenty-five years ago we said that hate crimes for reasons of race, ethnicity, nationality and religion had to be countered. Today we are one step away from another great result that we absolutely cannot miss. We are also lagging behind Europe: twenty-two out of twenty-seven countries have already adopted specific regulations. It is enough to read our excellent parliamentary dossiers to realize how late we are. Italy cannot really afford to waste any more time, breaking our civilization on contrasts that I judge anachronistic or, worse, on party and parliamentary tactics, on the skin of those who are beaten, discriminated against, vile and offended every day. It is not allowed to have doubts about the inviolable rights of man. We need a law that we can appeal to. For this reason Italy Viva voted "yes" to the House, voted "yes" to the Senate Justice Commission, voted "yes" to defend these principles from absurd prejudices of constitutionality. We have no doubt that the only possible answer to a law that condemns homophobia and transphobia is yes. Personally, I have no difficulty in approving this text. However, I note that even the senators who do not believe in the fake news we have heard in this House and outside, that this bill is an attack on the traditional family, that it speaks of the uterus for rent or restricts freedom, even if they are intellectually honest, they have doubts, but some doubts about some critical aspects of the text. If these senators are willing to work to approve a better text, then we must all give them the availability of a true comparison. I don't understand and I never understood who says this text or no text. I say this from the position of those who would vote for this text and vote for it. I don't get it. That is why three days ago I warmly welcomed the unprecedented new position expressed by the Secretary of the Democratic Party regarding the opening of mediation. Too bad another part of the Democratic Party did not follow the party line and, in fact, yesterday the position changed and now there is no agreement. We are in the Chamber, a few hours after the vote, without an agreement. I don't understand who would rather hoist flags than give real answers to people who need them. [[Applause]] I turn more to the Democratic Party, because those who can do more must do more. Italy Viva has always been open to mediation since July, and has built hypotheses, proposals on which to reason, on the most controversial articles, the first. We proposed to return to the Scalfarotto bill, defining crimes all actions of homophobia and transphobia, because we are convinced that in this way any crime, committed by anyone to anyone, protects more, extends the case of protection, without excluding anyone. We have no prejudices about Article 4. We are convinced of what authoritative constitutionalists have told us. But article 4 has been modified in the Chamber by the center-right; if now the same center-right wants to return to its own steps and modify it or remove it, nothing prevents. Compared to school, I believe - and I say this not only about this, but also about gender violence - that the school can do a lot. In this case it can do much to remember 17 May 1990 (not other dates), when the WHO removed homosexuality from the list of mental diseases: it is a day that must be remembered. I think that the school can also do much to teach respect: respect: towards women, towards the disabled, towards the LGBTQI+, however everyone wants to feel; towards those who have a race, an ethnicity, a nationality, a different religion. The school has to teach this and we have already decided it in this House in 2015, with good school. This text reiterates this and adds nothing else. However, if we want to say that it is equally worthy of respect for school autonomy, we can do so, we must do so. Italia Viva has always been at the forefront. There are parliamentarians who have had the honour of wanting and voting on the law on civil unions in the last parliamentary term. Today we would really like to secure a law against homotransphobia as well. [[Applause]] If we say that we want to mediate and then we do not open up to confrontation; if we fill the streets but have a Chamber of empty votes, we would have rendered a terrible service to all the victims of hate crimes. And we would also have made a bad service to politics, because politics - at least what I like - is dialogue, it is building openings, it is approving laws; we do it on all the laws, from the budget to those on the environment, mediating, finding solutions. And the more we have to do it when people are at stake. We have to do this for another message. Italy needs to be pacified. To pass a law together serves not only to have a law, but also to make sure that the whole country knows that it must recognize the other by itself and that it must respect it as it is. Our younger children, our teenage children at home, ask us not to disappoint them, to be able to look at a policy that can be heard, that allows them to have a dream. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we could hold full sessions of the Assembly's work to argue that this debate may appear a bit lunar, or at least untimely, in the light of the difficulties that the country is going through: divisive at a time when such heterogeneous political forces are engaged in a common effort of national unity; ultroneo as our legal system already provides for instruments of protection and sanction in the face of behaviour detrimental to the rights of others. But we won't. We could explain how, as liberals, we are against the segmentation of people into categories, because each individual deserves protection as such; because continuing to proceed with special laws does nothing but create ghettoization and suggest "diversity"; because applying principles valid for all from time to time to this or to that type of people, perhaps using some instrumentally as a fig leaf, will ensure that there will always be someone who feels excluded. But we won't. Faced with the fearful need to introduce further protection against violence and discrimination, we are so ready not to back down that we have promoted, as a centre-right, a bill that aims precisely at this purpose, taking up the outline of a proposal by my colleague, Mr Ivan Scalfarotto, signed by Mr Zan, with the added value of not engaging in the Mancino law and therefore not even running the risk of slipping into the field of crime of opinion. Therefore, the field has been cleared by the understandable controversy over the real impellence of the measure under consideration - of which, incidentally, perhaps not even its supporters are really persuaded since they have taken months to withdraw from the line - or the text as it is, or death - and reiterated, as I said, the willingness to approve in a minute a law against violence and discrimination, let us reflect on some of the many reasons why the text in our opinion does not go and, if I may, on a fundamental cultural matter. For starters, this is not a law that introduces new rights as a certain narrative would like to give to understand. This is a law that introduces new criminal sanctions. It is not a crime to do this - excuse the pun - but we need to be clear on the point. The only rights that would enter into our order from a wide-open window are those surreptitiously linked to the definition of gender identity, and I will say something about that shortly. With regard to criminal sanctions, as the text is formulated, they do not merely strengthen the instruments of combating violence, but fully invest in the sphere of opinions, dragging them into a field which is susceptible to the most disparate interpretations of case law. And here we enter into a paradox. In fact, those who do not believe in the unique thought think that cultural pluralism is fully legitimate. Thus, in terms of opinions, it is also permissible that there are those who believe that they should be restricted and those who want the legislation of the 21st century to propose substantially the establishment of the Rocco Code. For the same reason, however, it should also be permissible for liberals to think differently: that violence should always be pursued, but that opinions, even if they are irritating, unpathetic, inappropriate, should be tolerated. In other words, it should be permissible to oppose a regulatory system which, in terms of opinions, is referred - let us say - more to Rocco than to Voltaire. It is much more unusual that to push for the "Rocco solution" - let's call it this - is an important part of the left. It is precisely so: net of the confrontation between the canonical groups, which despite the parenthesis of national unity remain opposed, it is increasingly evident how this affair interrogates the left above all. For Christ's sake, nothing new: since 1921 the latter has been trampled inside by a dichotomy between a more liberal area and an authoritarian area. And the same happens on the right, with the difference that on the right, at least in this circumstance, the problem of the relationship between authoritarianism and freedom is absorbed by a pragmatic and common sense approach that somehow sterilizes it. On the left, on the other hand, the dichotomy is being bullied in the course of this debate. But the novelty is that to move towards the authoritarian approach, which would like to solve the anthropological and ideal game using substantially the penal code, it is that radical party of mass that for a long time, inverging the prophecy of Augusto Del Noce, embodies the left "institutional" and "official"; while the dissident voices come from the most identity wing and left of the left. Colleagues, I don't want to exploit anyone, but I want to give you an extra thought. If you can't be persuaded by your opponents' arguments, at least try to listen to the perplexities of characters of various backgrounds united by the fact that you can't be counted as dangerous reactionaries: Marina Terragni, Stefano Fassina, Cristina Comencini, Mario Capanna, Cristina Gramolini, Fabrizio Cicchitto, Maurizio Turco, Emma Fattorini, Beppe Vacca, Silvia Costa, Teresa Armato, and I could continue. I get to the sore point, and let me do it through an anecdote to the limits of goliardia. When the new secretariat of the Democratic Party promoted the rotation at the summit of the Parliamentary Group in the Senate to entrust it to a female exponent, I allowed myself a joke with the then outgoing leader, my colleague Marcucci. I said, "Andrea, what's the problem?" Call on the Zan bill, say you feel yourself a woman, and your problem is solved! Of course I was joking, but not too much. I told my friend Enrico Letta publicly that the battle for "gender equality" and "gender identity" - if the latter is understood in the sense of the definition in the Zan bill - cannot be together; they contradict each other frontally. Without bringing other colleagues into play, let us give another example: what if a woman who became a certain role by virtue of her being a woman woke up one morning perceiving herself as a man? Would you start again the count on the pink and blue bullets until the next change of perception? Or should it be admitted that, beyond the ideological flags that would be transformed into legal texts, identity is something consubstantial to the person and impossible to separate completely from an anchor to biology and natural law? Colleagues, I do not suddenly - for intellectual honesty - a feminist of Antan and I am not even a fanatic of quotas except as a temporary mechanism to trigger spontaneous processes; but how can we not see that introducing the right to self-perception, under the pretext of the fight against violence, risks to frustrate decades of feminist struggles? How can we fail to see what is happening where gender identity is already a reality, with athletes with men's bodies participating in women's competitions, with male inmates getting transferred to the pink arm of the prison? And how can we fail to see that the concept of gender fluidity calls into question the same concept of homosexuality, which makes sense as long as the sex of belonging is a non-disputable parameter? In question, there is no repudiation of violence, on which we can agree in a minute. Nor is there the power to make free choices in one's personal life and the right not to suffer any discrimination for this. The division, at the bottom, is between those who believe that the free choice of the person moves from a given reality that is free to contradict with their own behaviors but not to deny in its essence... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u19	Thank you, Senator. If you wish, you can attach the text of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u21	Mr President, if the issue were simply to protect homosexuals, bisexuals and transsexuals better from the physical and moral violence which they are still subjected to, even if not as often as they would like us to believe, we would not have been discussing it for months. Brothers of Italy would be in favour, as we have always said on every occasion, of repeating it also with the presentation of our amendments, in particular with the one that introduces to Article 61 of the Criminal Code point 1-a in order to aggravate the penalty against those who have committed the fact because of ethnic origin, religious faith, nationality, sex, sexual orientation or disability of the person offended. We have also proposed another amendment to rule out the possibility of making a comparison judgment which would make the mitigating factors prevailing or equivalent to the new aggravating factor that we are proposing. [[Brusio]] I apologize to my colleagues for disturbing them, but I am speaking with my arms. [[Applause]] However, it is clear that the problem is not here, because - I repeat - we would all agree, if that were simply the case. The point is that with the law in our examination we want to pursue a further, much more questionable goal. The aim of this law, as it is now clear to all, is to introduce a real crime of opinion into our legal system. In fact, by this law we do not criminalize only acts of violence or of incitement to violence... [[Brusio]] I would like to speak without being disturbed, perhaps I ask too much, Senator Bernini. We are not only penalising violence or incitement to violence, but also incitement to discrimination. Only for the incitement to suicide does such a rule exist and the reasons for it are understood. It is unique that incitement is made a crime to commit a fact that in itself it is not. It is clear that the incitement to discrimination has as its basis the concept of gender identity, which is indeterminate and fluid and depends on self-certification, i.e. on the state of mind of the subject at that time: it is sufficient to read the definition of Article 1 in order to realize that gender identity, as defined by law, depends exclusively on the inner state of mind of the subject concerned. Conusing the incitement to discrimination with gender identity is then obtained the aberrant result for which a legitimate opinion can be transformed into a crime. This is the objective effect, perhaps even unwanted and unwanted, to which the law would lead. It could then become a crime to claim that a child is entitled to a father and a mother, because clearly gay couples might feel discriminated against. It may become a crime to argue that maybe a man cannot participate in women's sports competitions just because he feels like a woman, because clearly he may feel discriminated against. Aberrant facts could occur, such as that religious who was arrested in the London subway just because he preached that God created man and woman. In other words, there could be facts that would question freedom of opinion. This effect, ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing a part of the House in particular - would take place regardless of the amendments you are proposing to Articles 1, 4 and 7, because it is in Article 2 that these risks are contained: this is what we are talking about incitement to discrimination; that is the real point on which we must reflect. [[Applause]] It is said that there is also Article 4 which corrects these dangers, but that is not the case. Article 4 - I remember - says that it is without prejudice to the freedom to express one's own views. Nice effort you make: there is already Article 21 of the Constitution that says so; thank you for reminding us, but we imagined that it was worth regardless of the call of a simple law. [[Applause]] Sorry if we had this idea, perhaps we are lagging behind the progressive legal culture of the left. But the poison is in the tail, because - think about it - Article 4 of this ordinary bill says that Article 21 - so you want to place a limit on the Constitution by an ordinary law - applies as long as the manifestations of thought are not suitable to determine the real danger of carrying out discriminatory or violent acts. The question I would like to ask, to which I have never had an answer, then, is: who determines whether or not these opinions are suitable for determining such a real danger? Who establishes that? Do you, us or Parliament establish it? No: a judge must establish it, of course. We trust then in the balance and wisdom of the magistrate to whom we will be subjected, should we have the misadventure to express these views so unwelcome to a part of the LGBT world (on the one hand, because of course not all share). However, we will have to go before a judge: tomorrow I could be denounced by an LGBT activist only because I say, for example, that I am opposed to gay adoptions; then in front of the judge I should justify myself and hope to find a balanced and wise one, who understands that I have manifested my thought. What will be the effect of this law (which is then the real effect desired and desired by this law and is the reason why you do not want to change even a comma)? The effect will be that - as is already happening in many countries, where similar rules are in force - people who have a certain idea of family, fatherhood, motherhood and gender difference will self-censor themselves. [[Applause]] This is the effect you want to pursue: putting the gag on the majority of Italians, who still believe that the family is a value, that children have the right to be protected and that the rights of all people, homosexual or not, should be protected without harming the equal rights of others. That's why we say this bill is wrong, and that's why we think it's better not to... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the debate in this House, often hearing about things that have nothing to do with the bill. Now I have heard Mr Balboni say that this is a law against the family and I have listened to senators explain to us that it serves to regulate the transition: it is not true. I've heard people explain to us that it serves to allow males to go to play in women's championships: it has nothing to do with it. I've heard so many things said regardless of the content of the law. The aim of this measure is to protect people who are most exposed to discrimination because of their condition and life choices. This is the law and serves not to leave these people alone, recognizing them a full right of citizenship. It's a law that talks about rights and freedoms and doesn't take anything away from anyone. This is the Zan law; This is what we are talking about; this is the text approved by a large majority in the House of Deputies. This is the law that, together with other political groups, we have taken away from obstructionism. Senator Ostellari says this is a fault, but it's not. [[Applause]] I claim the Democratic Party's credit for forcing a measure which would otherwise still be in the Commission and on which hearings or other games would still be held to block it. The law is here now, there is a written text and we must discuss it. I claim the credit for the forces that made this choice. Let us not fool ourselves: it took three months to schedule the measure, then it wanted to associate it with other draft laws and also put in place a power of 170 hearings, all held and in presence. Let's not make fun of each other. [[Applause]] This law did not all want it in this Parliament and I do not know if everyone still wants it. That's the point. It's certainly imperfect, so let's work. We said we were ready and the national secretary repeated it the other day. Now that the law is in the Chamber, we are prepared to make changes, which must hold two points firm for us. As for the first, if there must be changes, they cannot be such as to take away from someone the protections and rights that the law recognizes today. [[Applause]] We cannot discriminate between the people whom this law seeks to protect. Then I believe that we cannot go back to the choice of giving a precise indication: introducing discrimination against these people among hate crimes and clearly saying that the state stands by the most exposed and weakest people. [[Applause]] , the protection and is in the field to punish those who discriminate against people for their condition of weakness and for their choices. I think we could discuss this and I do not think that this law establishes - as Senator Balboni said earlier - a crime of opinion. I don't think so. Do we want to clarify that better? Let's do it. This is a law that strikes those who actually discriminate against these people. Now I want to say very clearly, however, that we are going to debate and, after the general debate, we are going to vote on a proposal not to go through the articles. Those who have opposed this law from the beginning (not in detail, but in substance) today propose not to move on to the examination of the articles. Some people are surprised if the Democratic Party, the Movimento 5 Stars and Free and Equal, the forces that have supported and which support this law more, today say that, before discussing the changes, there must be clarity on this point. I do not understand what the amazement is, if yesterday we have conditioned the possibility of continuing the negotiation or the debate of merit to this passage. The failure to pass through the articles means to bring down the law, because from tomorrow this bill will no longer be discussed and there will be no more. To really want this law and a negotiation or to want to bring it down are two things that can't be together. Decide: this House must decide whether it wants to bring down the law or whether it wants to improve it and approve it, that is the point. [[Applause]] Many have explained to us in these months that they are available for mediation, discussion and negotiation. Very good: but what credibility do those who propose to me at the same time and then propose to me and vote on the non passage to the examination of the articles, that is, the sinking of the law? What credibility is there? [[Applause]] I repeat that we are ready to work to amend this law, but we must pass this rock. We are discussing a law which only we do not have in Europe of rights and freedoms; and we are talking about extending the rights and freedoms in this country and protecting people or, otherwise, we are talking about deleting this law: the two are not together. [[Applause]] I expect it to be clear to all the liberals that I have heard that the result of the vote that will shortly be proposed to us is to delete the law (a law that, in any case, everyone here thought to tell as necessary). I hope that the majority of the Senate will continue the discussion of the law and tell the many people that this law wants to protect and that they look to this House that we are there, that we are at their side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u24	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to clear the field of any misunderstanding. I would like to make a point at once, so that our position is clear and cannot be misunderstood by anyone. Forza Italia is not, has never been and will never be in favour of any kind of discrimination. [[Applause]] Others, based on hatred, lies and the constant denigration of the opponent, have built much of their political fortune, but we have always said no to attacks even verbally and to the ghettoization of people. [[Applause]] Contrary to what the promoters of the Zan bill say, as it is not a law of freedom, which widens the audience of rights and protects the weakest, because, if it were, Forza Italia would vote for it and support it. [[Applause]] As liberals, Christians and guarantors, we are always on the side of the rights and especially those of the weakest, but the Zan bill does not do anything else. Despite the title, it does not protect freedom, it limits it; it does not combat discrimination, it establishes new ones and it creates series A and series B. We really believe in equality of citizens in the face of the state, the law and the institutions, the equality that Zan bill says it wants to promote. Precisely because we believe in it, we refuse to distinguish citizens on the basis of sexual orientation, as we refuse to do on the basis of birth, census, skin color, sex of belonging, political or religious opinions or lifestyles. We believe that the right protections belong to every human being, without distinction, and that everyone has equal right not to be discriminated against, dilegated, assaulted and insulted. [[Applause]] We also believe that the laws in force in Italy already guarantee this: all the episodes of discrimination or homophobic violence that are mentioned today do not remain unpunished; they are already being prosecuted, as is right, but we believe that we can do more and better. For this reason we had presented a bill that dealt with these issues without ideological prejudices, not a flag law to wave like an electoral manifesto, but one that combines the rights of all with the fundamental protection of freedom. For these same reasons we were ready to discuss, reason and improve a text which, as it stands, is frankly unacceptable to those who believe in freedom and equal rights. This law does not fight homophobia: it is only a seductive and deceptive coated cover. Defending rights doesn't mean writing on the palm of a Zan DDL hand in favor of cameras and selfies. [[Applause]] I wonder how many of those who make public statements and publish photos really know what we are talking about. You wanted to force the times because you don't care about a good law, but do something left and please a world of associations that claim to represent the totality of homosexual people. Your real intent is to make an unworthy political use of the suffering of so many people. This shows only one thing: to you of the LGBT people, of their personal dramas and inner hardships, of the insults, of the threats and violence of which they are often victims does not interest anything at all. You are not interested even when we have in every way called for a serious debate to draw up a text that would pass the test of this House. You didn't care when President Ostellari proposed a table from whose work a shared text came out and even when, as a center-right, we presented a text signed by Senators Ronzulli, Salvini, Binetti and others. You used this argument to campaign, after you closed every chance of serious confrontation. You wanted to remain anchored to a profoundly illiberal ideological vision, even if it disguises itself as a law of freedom. It is a law that opens up to very dangerous areas of discrimination, yes, towards those who support other lifestyles, other values and other models. What do you really want to punish? Perhaps the expression of different opinions? Perhaps the rejection of the LGBT+ agenda that wants to start indoctrination from primary school education? The state cannot claim to replace the first educators of children, who are and must remain parents and, if you intend to inculcate your crazy gender fluid theories to the children of three years, know also that here we will do everything to prevent it. [[Applause]] What more do you want to punish? The different opinion on adoptions by same-parent couples or on the uterus for rent that, from questionable, but legitimate opinion, could become a crime? The text, ladies and gentlemen, is full of ambiguity of this kind, has an intimidating effect and creates the conditions for a possible judicial persecution of ideas other than those of the proposers. As it is, we will never vote for it, because we really believe in the freedom and dignity of people. There was the possibility of writing together a beautiful page to counter hatred, violence, fanaticism and intolerance, but the idea of writing a law that was widely shared and approved by an overwhelming majority of this House did not want it. However, you preferred to bring to the Chamber an ideological law that splits Parliament, the country and the majority itself, just as Italy would need unity and maximum cohesion to deal with real emergencies. You tried to put the hat on citizens' civil rights, as if they were not all of them, but exclusive ownership of a single political part. We were deluded that, after the election campaign, the exploitation of your approach would also be closed, with a confrontation between parties and representatives of this House, but this was not the case once again. Keep hiding behind the vote of the House, as if the Senate were called to a mere ratification, to put exclusively a stamp on a measure that the other branch of Parliament approved with a different majority from the current one. We were deluded that at least this time, when it was again asked to schedule the examination of this bill, after the break that you have at all costs wanted before the summer break of the works, there could really be a moment of confrontation, in particular on Articles 1, 4 and 7 of the Zan bill, that would make it possible to approve a law in more than half an hour and thus render a good service to the country, but yesterday you have sent this chance in smoke again and you have taken away the possibility of broadening the consent around this provision, moreover first pretending an opening, asking a postponement of the examination just to find a square, and then forcing for the umpteenth time the hand, with the request to bring still the text Zan as it is today in the Chamber. Someone will have to take responsibility for the outcome of today's vote in front of the whole country, a responsibility that has a name and surname written in cubic letters, that will remain imprinted in the minds of the citizens, if this bill will be sunk today and will remain dead letter because of the ultratranzismo, the arrogance, the supposition and the presumption of those who Millanta a moral superiority such as to snubbe the confrontation with who - although on the other side of the House - sits among these benches because, just as those who are facing us, we have been sent by the Italians. Your attitude has offended part of the country and - much worse - has ended up harming those who ask all of us and not just this or that party to be protected in the enjoyment of their rights. So, congratulations to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u26	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u27	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today this House, in continuing its work started months ago, is once again committed to discussing the goodness or otherwise of the so-called Zan bill, approved in the House and, as stated in the title, aimed at approving measures to prevent and combat discrimination and violence, for reasons based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and disability. It is now difficult to say something that has not already been said by the previous Members, but it is also true that, at this point, it is necessary to reiterate some passages of the draft law under consideration, which a large part of the majority of this House does not agree with: let us not forget that the suspensive issue had not been adopted for a single vote of rejection, so let us face it, ladies and gentlemen. Returning to the Mancino law, which contrasts crimes of racism, and intervening on article 604- bis of the penal code, the bill provides for the imprisonment from one to four years for those who instigate homophobic violence. If everything ran out here, maybe this whole discussion wouldn't be there. However, of the ten articles of which it is composed, some - and I am referring in particular to Articles 1, 4 and 7 - have inevitably triggered an inexhaustible debate because, if on the one hand they are designed to defend the freedom of some, on the other they are going to invade and affect the freedom of others, and this cannot be tolerated nor allowed. On some contents of the text the Holy See has also been uncomfortable, declaring that these go to reduce the freedom guaranteed to the Catholic Church by Article 2, paragraphs 1 and 3, of the agreement to revise the agreement, which assure the Church of freedom of organization, of public exercise of worship, of exercise of the Magisterium and of the episcopal ministry on the other hand guarantee to Catholics and their associations and organizations the full freedom of assembly and manifestation of thought, with the word, the writing and any other means of dissemination. It is therefore clear how not only the Church in the strict sense would find herself with a series of reduced freedoms, but also many citizens would be doubly vexed, as they would see contradicted also what our Constitution provides for in Article 21, that is, that all have the right to freely manifest their thoughts by word, writing and any other means of dissemination. That is also why the League is repeatedly calling for an act of mediation which, as a majority of a government of national unity, citizens would like to see from us, if only to demonstrate a certain maturity and responsibility, because perhaps in this House it would be more appropriate to discuss work, projects of the PNRR and not divisive subjects that prolong the debate. In addition, Mr President, let me say that, to be clear, this bill is nothing more than the failure of our social structure, which cannot convey those values of mutual respect that should be the basis of our civil coexistence and should be transmitted as from father to son DNA is transmitted. Every law establishes a failure and this is clear from the beginning of time; but if a law does not limit itself to curbing and punishing something, but even comes to hinder and invade the freedom of expression of others, then it means that it is a bad law and this cannot be tolerated, nor can it be granted. [[Applause]] Mr President, let me say that, as a mother, I would not want this bill, if it does not leave room for mediation, to be understood by someone as an opportunity to instigate in an authorized manner homosexuality or transgender. This fear of me, along with what can become a business, stems from the fact that I am well aware of how inherent in each of us the attempt to convince others that our ideas and our doings are right, to have not only an ally, but also someone with whom to share the same experience, and there is nothing easier than trying to do it with easily conditioning subjects, as children and adolescents are often. That is why I am afraid of the idea that, as we have already tried to do, guidelines can be introduced in schools that could affect young people at a delicate moment of their growth; a time when we, as adults, as parents, as mothers and as dads, have the task of responding to their uncertainties, accompanying them in the discovery of their body and their sexuality, but without conditioning and, above all, without haste, without reaching conclusions that may be wrong over time, but unfortunately also irreversible. This can neither be tolerated nor allowed on the skin of children and boys. Mr President, this law, as it is, is crammed into categories, ghettoizing them, people who, as such, simply have to be respected. Perhaps, however, Mr President, this concept is too difficult for a society in decline such as ours, which has preferred to repudiate values such as the family, which alone can hold it and which, since it is no longer recognized as a foundation, needs to be replaced by laws such as this, which will call others, making it increasingly difficult for everyone to live. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address you all, as parliamentarians, as senators of the Republic, without a mandate, as the Constitution says, stressing and reminding everyone what we are talking about. We are talking, in this House, at this moment, with a very difficult formal passage before us, about rights, individual freedoms and guarantees; we are talking about the dignity of personal choices and the defence of the weakest. Ladies and gentlemen, although it has not yet been formalized, we know that there will be a very delicate vote, which can stop the process of this measure. There are many European countries in which laws such as this have been passed, even by right-wing, conservative parties, because they are in line with the evolution of our society and the need for modernity, and to accompany with a regulatory framework conform to acquired behaviour. With regard to the desire to interrupt the legislative process, therefore, today we are not talking about merit, but about those who, in reality, want to prevent this provision from becoming law, just when the Democratic Party, with the words of its secretary, opens up to a confrontation on the merit, giving willingness to discuss the articles and the most delicate parts, certainly remaining on a well defined axis, what has been discussed and which is the result of the amending activity that has taken place in the Chamber. It is precisely at the time when this opening is given that we are asking for this measure to be stopped and finally put down. I have asked to speak, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to ask each of you, sincerely, frankly, but also with determination, to consider what is happening. We are close to achieving an important objective, not for a party, not for a deployment or even for some categories, but for the whole of our national community. It is an objective that should be that of us all parliamentarians: to have a law that protects the weakest, puts an end to violence and helps our society to evolve with respect and decency. This reflection must be done and I address all the Members of this House, including the members of those groups who are going to ask for no passage to the articles. Today we are debating whether or not we want a law that addresses these issues. From tomorrow we will sit again, comparing ourselves as we did to the House, trying to transpose the legitimate demands to be presented, that we, all together, will decide whether they deserve to be included in the bill. I would like to appeal to all of you: let us not waste so much parliamentary activity, let us not waste the important work done in the House, all together, to which we have all contributed, we understood as political forces. I've heard strange and original things, I'm also to be told dangerous in this general discussion, but I don't want to argue. I want to appeal to everyone: please reflect, because it would be wrong - I repeat - not for a political part, but for our country, for the Italians all. Bringing our legislation to progress to a positive level is a help, a contribution and also a duty that we as individual parliamentarians have towards the country. Let's think about this in the last few minutes. This vote is really important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u30	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u31	Mr President, first of all I would like to ask for a minimum of respect for the Lega, Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia groups, because this attack on us, in which it is said that we have to withdraw the request for no passage to the articles, otherwise we put the measure at risk and do not show our will to negotiate, I would say that politicians who have been wise would never have brought this important measure into the Chamber without first having an agreement behind us all. That's what politicians do. [[Applause]] Forcements have been made, but we still give you a chance. In our opinion, after the general discussion, the representative of the Government can take the floor and say that he postpones the reply to a next session, so we would have plenty of time to discuss, to negotiate, to avoid the vote and to come to the Chamber to give a law of civilization to this country. Let's be clear, at least we understand each other. [[Applause]] Second question: perhaps it would have been better - I say this also compared to the times we are living - to provide for a law that severely punished those who do not respect the person in general. [[Applause]] In fact, protecting or creating special categories inevitably creates on the other hand the irritation of excluded categories, which in turn feel discriminated against. Keep in mind that today there are citizens who exercise their constitutionally sanctioned right of freedom of choice and are constantly discriminated against. [[Applause]] In doing so, we risk only giving reason to those who say that today's politicians would go (in memory of the seven hundred years since Dante's death) in the eighth circle of Hell, where there are hypocrites. People should avoid behaving in one way, when in fact the intentions are quite different. [[Applause]] To return to the provision, the Zan bill is not limited to combating discrimination by sex, gender, sexual orientation or the very rare cases of gender dysphoria (there are people who still do not have a clear sexual identity and it is right to protect them and make sure that they can decide as they wish). If the Zan bill were limited to this, the law would have been passed by now. [[Applause]] Contrasting discrimination was and is the main objective; instead, the Zan bill, behind the good intentions of the proposers, actually promotes a new model of society, based on the fact that sex no longer depends on a biological factor, as it has been for more than two thousand years in the history of humanity, but on a cultural factor, that is, a real revolution. No more men or women are born, but one becomes what one feels to be at a given moment [[Applause]] , rather than being proud of what you are, as Senator Masini said well, of which I want to remember the intervention. So everyone, from a young age, must necessarily enter this transition process. You think that in Britain they even prescribe a drug to delay puberty, so that they give the children the time to choose what they want to become. They basically want to induce children to change sex, even before they know they have sex. [[Applause]] This is behind it, and it is the subject that we consider critical and that makes the bill improbable to our examination. By the way, all this will only create a great confusion and introduce a fluid sexual identity into our system, which, even in spite of it, risks eliminating the sexual differences. Remember the defeat of Judith Butler's genre, just to quote a book. From this cancellation the most penalized will be precisely the women, who for years have laboriously conquered rights and spaces. [[Applause]] Just as the same homosexuals, who risk losing their identity, will also be penalized. It is right to say these things here, so that, in future memory, one can understand what is likely to carry out this bill. All to respond to market logics. This is also said by comrade Marco Rizzo, secretary of the Communist Party. Never, ever, would I have thought one day that I should be nostalgic about old-fashioned comrades: those who had at least ideals, to the very end. [[Applause]] They are logics functional to the market, yes, because tomorrow's globalists must be without sex, without identity, without religion, without values, love, fans of fashions, without critical minds, dependent on social and pseudo influencers, mainly assisted, consumers, very stupid and above all to the total service of the system. So, yes, Senator Cirinna, that is the case to say: what a life of... I mean, we understand each other. [[Applause]] I conclude with a passage that made a journalist, as well as left-wing writer, that I respect and value very much, Massimo Fini (also writes on the Daily Fact), who on August 24, 2007 wrote: "Culture, science, technology, Western economy are marching with the sun in the forehead and certainties in their pockets, towards flattening, homologation, universal standardization. This is functional to the economy, and to the delusions of someone's omnipotence, but it is mortal to man. Diversity is not only, as popular wisdom says, the salt of life, what makes it interesting, but it is life itself. Great, Massimo Fini. [[Applause]] You have to learn from the writers on the left, the real left! The real left! The real left! [[Applause]] There's still time, colleagues. We delete the crazy ideology behind this bill and we approve, all together, a law of civilization that teaches to respect people, all people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Pavanelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating is certainly not intended to protect only a part of the citizens, by putting in a minority another part. What is not said in television, in statements and - let me say this - in political propaganda, is that the bill under consideration will allow to punish discrimination or violence based on gender, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability in the same way as that based on the grounds of racism, or it will protect gay, transsexual, women, the disabled and even heterosexuals. This bill protects all citizens! [[Applause]] We all know, but I would like to remind you once again, that this measure extends an existing law that is fully in line with our Constitution. I am talking about the Mancino law of 1993, which was the main legislative instrument offered by the Italian system of laws against hate crimes and incitement to hatred and so far no one has said that they want to abolish it. The fundamental part of the bill in our examination is that which amends Article 604-a of the penal code, adding also discriminatory acts based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity. In addition, we deliberately speak of sexual orientation and not just homosexuality. Thus, for example, this provision also protects heterosexuals, since heterosexuality is also a sexual orientation, which will be protected by the norms of the Zan bill. The guiding principles of this law are found in our Constitutional Charter, which always places the individual at the centre, without any discrimination. Why, then, is there a need for new regulatory action? Because our country has been watching for too long, we have cast the mechanisms of participation and education to respect diversity and we also have bad examples, which incite, day after day, to the attack of this or that other skin color. To answer Senator Romeo, no one promotes sex change for children! [[Applause]] Here is another fake news, which ingessa and restrains the development of an awareness of the respect of the neighbour, just as it happened in my Region, Umbria, in which the guarantor of the rights of the child has publicly launched a social alarm, fearing hypothesis to the limit of perversion, as if this measure could even favor paedophilia. They are imaginative and at the same time aberrant hypotheses, deplorable only for having thought of them: this is an example of how sometimes you talk without studying and without knowing. It is serious that, in a country like Italy, these subjects are still in office in their institutional functions. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the world is ahead and Europe is moving forward as well. We must overcome the challenge of recovery, but to do so we must keep up with the other countries of our European community. Last March, the European Parliament adopted a resolution declaring the whole of the European Union an area of freedom LGBTIQ. [[Applause]] It is a position taken in response to member countries that do not guarantee rights to LGBT communities. Europe has also condemned Hungary as a place where LGBT rights are denied in various ways. What worries me most is that, in order to maintain each one's consent, we do not think of the interests of the citizens. What has changed compared to the examination of this bill in the House, where no controversy, no obstructionism, no instrumental behavior has paralysed its path for months and months? Yet this was the text before this House today, and the political forces are the same in this House. Evidently, someone has not learned from the political bagarre staged on the law for civil unions. I remember well how some of those who sat in these seats shouting that in our country we would no longer have weddings and that there would no longer be heterosexual families. [[Applause]] All this wasn't. After years, don't you realize that you crossed the threshold of ridicule with that psychological terrorism? I would remind you, Mr President, that in 2009 Mr Giorgia Meloni, then Minister for Youth, at the Arcigay conference declared that it was right to combat the forms of discomfort and discrimination against young homosexuals. And now, twelve years later, he seems to forget his own words. Colleagues, to those who have said - explicitly or between the lines - that hatred based on sexual orientation does not exist, that it is not an emergency, that it is not a widespread phenomenon, that its contrast is not a legislative priority... [[Comments.]] Excuse me, Mr President, but I do not stop at the screams of colleagues who tell me enough! [[Applause]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I do not think it is appropriate for my colleagues to tell me enough! I have listened to all the Members who have spoken today and I would like to be able to conclude, Mr President. You can read how many people every day ask for help, how many reports of physical and psychological violence and how many families humiliate boys and girls who have come out. These are facts that happen between us, in our society, in our cities. It's real data and not invented. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us put aside political propaganda and consensus for one day and think of those who suffer violence, abuse and humiliation because of their sexual orientation, as if we were ourselves. We protect those people to protect ourselves. We act like a civil and democratic nation. Italy must look to the future, and to do so it needs the people; a people who lives in freedom and therefore, in diversity. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u34	The general debate is closed. The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u37	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would also like to explain the proposal not to move on to the examination of Articles 1, because this gives me the opportunity to make clear what is the non-version to the articles, namely an institution provided for in our Rules of Procedure to Rule 96, so that if the proposal were to be adopted by voting yes - we must vote yes so that we do not move on to the article - the debate on the measure would be interrupted. It is an institution of our Rules of Procedure and not, as Mr Zan has unwisely defined, a swindling vote or even worse a trap; it is an established institution. [[Applause]] Perhaps Mr Zan is too young because once this institution was also in the House; it was abolished in 1997 - as a case may be - with the adoption of an amendment proposed by Mr Mattarella, so that the institution was included in the preliminary ruling. In fact, in the House the prejudices are voted with the secret vote because they absorbed the non passage to the articles. I have tabled a request for no passage to the articles because this is not a debate, it is a non-political fight, not of content, but ideological between those who were in favour of the Zan bill at all costs and those who did not want it. And so it went on for months without any chance of comparison. I have to say, quite rightly, that in June something changed because a part of the left centre and right centre accepted and agreed to recognise the Zan bill as the basis of the debate, it was proposed to withdraw so many speeches and hearings that had been planned, declaring themselves willing to discuss four or five amendments that could bring the measure back into the wake of common sense. This was in June. However, some have perhaps noticed that the numbers in the Commission were no longer on its side and with those numbers the amendments would have been approved, the bill would have arrived in the House with the rapporteur, after which the measure would have been examined. So what do we do? We take and throw the ball in the gallery; instead of concluding the examination in the Commission we say that we must get to this House without the rapporteur. At that point the theater really began. We are ready for discussion, but first the measure must be scheduled. It is scheduled; no, after the calendarization it is necessary to arrive in the Assembly. We have arrived; no, we must conclude the general discussion. When we are almost at the end of the general debate, no dialogue unless we come to the examination of the amendments. Who are you kidding? [[Applause]] I recognize the intellectual honesty of those who have always supported and said yes to the Zan bill in the text of the House; point, you must not touch. At least I recognize him intellectual honesty. That is precisely why I presented the trap, the vote of fraud or the failure to move to articles. Mr Letta and Mr Zan, who say that they are prepared to take up a debate, decide on the improvements and then move on. Great. They promote a meeting between the political forces and the political force belonging to Letta and Zan stimulates two of the majority parties not to participate and then say that they were not all present. So we're not in the theater anymore, we're in the comedy. [[Applause]] Some have been able to tell us that before we had a debate we should have withdrawn the request not to move on to the articles. It is precisely for this reason that I no longer believe you and therefore I maintain the request for no passage to the articles and I also ask for the secret vote. In fact, if we were to proceed on this path, with 80 or 100 votes by secret ballot, I do not know what could come out of this House as a measure and rather than make a legal monster or a scumbag - I mean myself - I guarantee you that it is better to stop here and not fall back again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u38	Senator Calderoli, it's probably best not to talk. I know you claimed it as your own, but I'd rather you avoid it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u39	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this is also a form of coming out. I would not want to give rise to a legal reproach, which should be against discrimination and instead discriminates, which should protect and instead touch on the freedom of expression, the education of our children, tramples on the freedom of worship and all the fundamental rights of our Constitutional Charter. [[Applause.]] I appeal to everyone to be able to express themselves freely in the secret of the urn. Let's stop today. The availability signalled by President Ostellari and President Romeo in saying "stop" is not a rejection for the bill: you can start immediately to examine a real text; in fourteen months you can do so many things. But now let's stop, because it's better a stop today than a alas tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u42	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Mr Calderoli has already expressed many of the arguments that I would have made; I would like to refer to them and try to add a few arguments, without hesitation. My group has chosen me to explain this request because, unlike what everyone can freely think or not think, on these issues within the Italian political right have always been - if I can define myself - more [[liberal. (Comments.]] This is exactly how it is: to ask and to study. There is also one reason why I have a great deal of attention in intervening on a bill that would prevent any discrimination. The reason is that for so many years - those of the university and the first years of my political commitment - I felt very discriminated against, not for reasons of sex or religion, but simply for reasons of political belonging to a party that was democratically represented here in Parliament. So I am very sensitive to everything that can constitute discrimination and I would never dream of opposing a law that really had these purposes. But the problem we have posed is the following: does the so-called draft law Zan have the real objective of limiting, abolishing, condemning, punishing discrimination that is not punished today, or is it simply a surreptitious attempt, through a binding rule, to introduce a unique thought that prevents opinions other than those of a parliamentary majority, perhaps gathered together and that today certainly does not represent the photograph of the electoral body? This second hypothesis is what we believe to be true. We do not think that there is any real discriminatory behaviour today that is not already covered by legislation and articles of the penal code; you have not been able to indicate one of them to me, except for opinions. So this bill ends with being a gag towards opinions that, as stated in Article 4 of the text, are not free; they are free, as the Constitution says, but - adds the article - "as long as they are not suitable to determine the real danger of carrying out discriminatory or violent acts." On violent acts I agree, but think of the real danger of discriminatory acts. For example, a parent who claims to disagree with what, according to your law, would be taught in schools (i.e. that a child or a child decides, day by day, whether to be male, female, or gay) would be punished. One might say that he might be acquitted in court. However, the parent would be careful and self-censored for the danger of being brought before a court (which then - I repeat - would perhaps absolve him) and incur the jaws of a liberticidal law such as this. [[Applause]] This law ends with discrimination against freedom of thought. We think of someone who had in mind to insult, discriminate and strike even with words (with acts not even talking about it, of course) a person for his sexual orientation. I do not take as an example the issue of disability, which you included in the provision as a fig leaf, unless you forget to insert it in all articles, for example with reference to the International Day of People with Disabilities, since then we would perhaps talk about disability and no more about gender culture. Is there or is there not today the rule that, if someone had in mind to strike and discriminate a person for his sexual orientation, would allow him to denounce, strike and punish him for defamation and, if he passes to acts, private violence or attempted sexual violence? Is he there or isn't he? Is there or is there not already the rule that allows you to denounce and condemn someone who thinks to strike someone because one day he feels like a man and one day a woman, insulting and threatening him? The norm is there. What are the behaviors that remain outside today, if not opinions? But since we are more realistic than the king... [[Comments.]] What does that mean? Explain it to me. How dare you make gestures? I am talking, you are discriminating against me and my attempt to express my opinion here in Parliament. [[Applause]] Imagine how a non-parliamentary citizen would be discriminated against. Mr President, since we are more realistic than the king, we have tabled two amendments, introducing a specific aggravating factor for every crime related to the behaviours referred to in Article 1, and another amendment aimed at making it impossible to compare this aggravating factor with any mitigating factor (this would therefore prevail). We have no fear of appearing as those who want to censor who knows what a yearning for freedom. On the contrary, we want to prevent discrimination against those who want to freely express their thoughts. Mr President, let me turn to the last point. I invite this branch of Parliament, if ever our proposal not to pass to the examination of the articles, to present a more appropriate bill, on which everyone can be found, even those representatives - if you want to list them - of the LGBT world and anything else that are against this law, even those representatives of the Catholic world, including the Pope, who are against this law. Let's try something together if you want. And, if you are there, we write together a motion against the Islamic States where not only homophobia is not punished, but homosexuality is punished, even with the death penalty, in your absolute silence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, two requests for secret ballots were received by the prescribed number of senators and by the President of the Fratelli d'Italia Group, referring to proposals for non-transitional voting, submitted by Senators Calderoli and La Russa respectively. The reasoned requests have already been distributed. The President considers these requests for secret voting to be admissible, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of the previous ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u46	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I asked to speak on a point of order. I will speak very briefly, with only two comments. The first is the nature of the vote we are about to vote on. However, the non-transition to the articles, of which I do not escape the political effects, has the nature of a procedural vote. It is a rule in our Rules of Procedure to allow, once the House has given its assent, the review, well after six months, of the full text of a measure in the Commission, before the House discusses its amendments. It is therefore a procedural rule that the presidency of the Senate granted the secret vote just now, in my opinion contradicting the principle and spirit of secret voting for substantive votes, on rules which require special protection of the free will of the Member. The combined provisions of paragraphs 4 and 4-a of Rule 113 of our Rules of Procedure require reference to a well-defined case and not to an entire measure, in which, of course, they can live together both rules that allow secret voting and rules that do not allow it. It is for this reason, in my view, that Article 113 (4) (a) provides that secret ballots may be requested only on matters strictly relevant to the cases referred to in the preceding paragraph. On matters, not on measures. In matters covered by our Rules of Procedure, on certain rules or amendments, voting may take place by secret ballot. But on a procedural vote, Madam President, I do not think it can be granted. I respect the decision of the President of the Senate, who has exercised his prerogatives; but I disagree with the substance of the decision that has been taken. The second point concerns the subject of our vote. Those who will vote in secret for not switching to articles and those who have proposed and wanted the secret vote do not want to improve the Zan bill. [[Applause]] It simply does not want to see rules in our system that affect hate crimes to protect particularly exposed minorities. I have never been against political confrontation and, indeed, as many Members know, I am particularly in favour of confrontation, provided that it has the objective of improving a measure, especially on sensitive issues such as those covered by the Zan bill. I have always feared that not all, but many of those who asked for the revision of some of its parts, would ultimately sink it and the request for the secret vote confirms to me that my concern was correct. Predicting the outcome of a secret vote is impossible, but in our case we can say that its consequences are certain. If the passage to the articles is rejected, the draft law Zan will be able to continue its discussion in the Assembly and, if it so wishes, can be updated in some parts of it - I think - even with a very wide vote of the Senate Assembly. If, on the other hand, the non-transition to articles were to prevail, the measure would be definitively closed and we can say with absolute certainty that in this legislature it will never see the light. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u49	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, from my point of view - you have expressed another - the nature of the two requests made by the Centre for the Non-Transformation to Articles is very clear and is procedural in nature. Mr President, I am very clear that it is clear to everyone that granting a secret vote on a vote which, in our view, is of a procedural nature is not exactly relevant to the provisions of Article 113 for a very simple reason. You have practically said that all the norms and all the articles contained in the Zan bill to our examination are all related to the subjects provided for in paragraph 4 of Article 113. In your opinion, the bill in all its parts would have been subject to every vote under the secret vote. Mr President, it is clear to everyone - I believe you too - that this is not the case. It is not by chance that Article 113, precisely in paragraph 4-a, speaks of the possibility of requesting a split vote precisely because this cannot be applied tout court. To allow, instead, the secret vote on the non passage to the articles, which therefore concerns the whole of the law, because the path of the law in the Assembly is abruptly interrupted, is, in our opinion, improper. For the truth, the nature of the vow cannot escape anyone. Today's debate has been, from this point of view, absolutely significant and would not only have a political impact, but would also mark the end of the path of the bill. Granting and applying the secret vote is a procedural act, but it has also been deliberately presented as a political act. By granting the secret vote, you are in fact giving a chance which, in my view, the Rules of Procedure, according to the letter of Rule 113, do not allow at all. You also know, Mr President, that there have been precedents, even in the last parliamentary term, in which, following the request for a secret vote on the non-transition to articles, even then on fairly sensitive issues, this has not been allowed at all. By the way, having chosen the mode of the request and having decided, as obviously your prerogative, to grant the secret vote, in my opinion it is a further vulnus in the path of this bill. I would like to remind you very clearly of what happened, because now everyone seems doves who wanted dialogue, who wanted to work on a shared law, who protected all citizens, and it was against discrimination. We have all forgotten what happened in the process in the Commission, which was a troubled process. [[Applause]] Hence the request and the decision to bring him to the Chamber. Now everything is forgotten, but we know exactly that the path of this law, arrived from the House, has been hindered in all ways and even this last request is yet another attempt to close - this time entirely - the path. We know perfectly well that today, even if you all declare that you are willing to work on this bill, you do so in total bad faith. This, in fact, is the story of a troubled path. [[Applause]] That's what you wanted. As far as the request for a secret vote is concerned, I think you should have the courage to take on your responsibility before the citizens, de visu, and let them identify you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u52	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we could speak - but this is not the stage - on the political issue. Here we are talking about the Rules of Procedure, because on the political issue before Senator Calderoli recalled a timetable of facts and events that public opinion must evaluate and therefore I will not waste time in this House remembering the passages that, in a punctual way, were first marked and that arrived, President and colleagues, until last night, when I had the opportunity to participate with President Bernini in a political meeting, because we are also politicians who represent pieces of country, so there is nothing wrong in a meeting like what was held yesterday. Others have been proposed by the same first signatory of the law to the House, and I find it absolutely normal, indeed I would say due political confrontation. Here we are then in a formal, institutional voting forum, governed by the Rules of Procedure, which we are talking about. Until yesterday, frankly, the comments that have been made here, some of which of a political nature, both by Mr Zanda and Mr De Petris, have not been heard, because the request was to remove some elements. Then there are also groups that are more convinced than we are of the draft law, and that perhaps even on this matter of the vote they have declared to vote like those who have already spoken, they have asked for further consideration in the Commission, as we all know - but this is not the time for debate - on Articles 1, 4 and 7. Since we do not want to give a wrong image to the outside world, we are in favour of a law against discrimination, as we have said several times and as our Group has repeated in its final intervention, Senator Ronzulli. We have no doubt about this: we are a convinced party. We are debating other issues that have been introduced into the draft law, you know that too. Last night, after the relevant political statement of the Secretary of the Democratic Party, although made in a television studio (we know more than others that television is a relevant political seat), we hoped that that effort for change would come true. It wasn't like that. Therefore, because if others do not open up in political terms, on the other hand, we must give up the guarantees that the Senate Rules offer this House. [[Applause.]] I'm not talking about will or force. Mr President, the Forza Italia Group considers its decision to be correct. I also say this to experienced colleagues who have spoken. Senator Zanda, paragraph 4 of Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure is very clear and I am not here to dispute recalling secret votes that have been used in other events of our political movement. [[Applause]] In that case too, discussions will take place in parliamentary law and case law, and the matter is now over. Rule 113 is very clear and quotes, Senator Zanda and colleagues, a series of articles in the Constitution that I will not read here and which concern the family, freedom of thought and fundamental values. These questions are explicitly referred to in paragraph 4. Articles 13, 14, 15, 16, etc. of the Constitution (I invite you to read them, but you know them, we know them, it is our duty) are part of the fundamental principles of freedom of thought, of the family, of law; this series of articles of the Constitution referred to in Article 113 of the Rules of Procedure are the basis, the heart of the Constitution of the Italian Republic. It is no coincidence that such a detailed list is not found in other parts of our Rules of Procedure. It is said that - I am finishing, Mr President, I know that you immediately turn off the microphone - the secret ballot can be asked when measures affect these articles. The case is clear. Don't be afraid, even from us the secret vote can allow someone to disagree with the positions. Let your Members be free, because you may also fear the freedom of their judgment. The Rules of Procedure allow us to vote in this way. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr President, for applying the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the principles of freedom of thought. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u55	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since we are talking about the Rules of Procedure, we are talking about the Rules of Procedure. It is not that when we are not right about the substance we are using the Rules of Procedure and then, not knowing it, we are going back to the substance, otherwise we do not get out anymore. Mr President, I welcome your decision to accept our request. It is clear that the non-transition to the examination of articles is not a procedural institution, because the articles of reference of procedural questions are at the level of Article 93, both the suspensive question and the question referred for a preliminary ruling. For these procedural issues there is a certain type of vote, the electronic roll-call vote, which is in fact respected. The question of not switching to articles cannot be procedural, because there is no forecast of type of vote: therefore, by show of hands, by electronic vote and even secret. So this has absolutely nothing to do with it. [[Applause]] As is the time when we are debating, because the suspensive and preliminary questions are discussed after the report, before the general debate took place. The failure to move to articles shall be voted upon after the closure of the general debate and, therefore, in full substance. With regard to the circumstances whether or not there are references to the fact that it affects certain articles of the Constitution, it is necessary not only to read paragraph 4, but also paragraph 7 of Article 113 of our Rules of Procedure, where it is said that, when there is prevalence, the vote is carried out by secret ballot. As Senator Gasparri said, there is clarity in the secret vow. It is not that the secret vote obliges you to vote yes or no. The vote is free, that's why it's called a secret. [[Applause]] There is an attitude of hostility, sometimes, towards the secret vote. I remember a 1998 precedent that authorized the secret vote on a request not to move to the articles. However, I can also think of what has been done in the last parliamentary term, when, on the occasion of a vote which, in practice, had always been held by secret ballot, the interpretation proposed by those who today protested for the secret vote led the Council of the Rules of Procedure to say that the secret vote had to take place in a clear form, so that they could control their own troops. My colleagues, when you have to look at each other, sometimes, in science and conscience, then let's look at ourselves in the mirror and act like women and men. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u58	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, it is clear that the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote strongly against the granting of the secret vote, because we believe that the decision to grant it is based on a wrong assumption. In fact, there are no conditions for granting the secret vote, for a very simple reason. I also say to Mr Calderoli that I am now taking a stand on the procedural issue, but I am talking about the substance. There are no prerequisites, which I shall then explain, in accordance with the articles cited, that they must not rely on those listed in Article 113, because they do not fall within the scope of Article 113, but fall within Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. Since there are no prerequisites, the counterpart is that, since we do not have this regulatory guarantee, as has been mentioned, we have a surreptitious authorization to wear a mask against the country, towards the citizens and, allow me, perhaps even with those who have lived next to us. Mr Zan was criticized for the term scam. The scope of Zan's statements is clear, with respect to using a regulatory request to achieve another effect. The country got tired of this game, the citizens got tired of it. It is impossible to stop this wave and it is antihistorical: the more you oppose it and the more you advance. There is no way that a rock can stem the sea and this is happening. [[Applause]] Senator Romeo said: If you were politicians, you wouldn't have said to reject this request for non-passage articles. In this sense, we are not wise politicians. If we defend the truth and transparency and ask to put our face on, then we are not politicians. Senator Romeo, you are, on the other hand, a prudent politician who is trying to find all the escamotages and tools to take a job that lasted a year from the House. [[Applause]] This is what the prudent politician does: he mixes the cards, he confuses. [[Applause]] No wonder, since your political leader has stated in the general discussion that he considers commendable and distinctive the fact that your candidates are not asked for sexual orientation at the time of the candidacy. He also boasted: this makes it clear how understood this concept is and the reference to Articles 2 and 3, which are the only articles of the Constitution to which we must report this provision, which speak of equality of rights and equal dignity. This is the fundamental question, because if you reduce it to the exhaustive list referred to in Rule 113 (4) of our Rules of Procedure, you do not grasp the real substance. I did not say that alone, because it would be my opinion or an opinion of the Group, but the Constitutional Court says that in two judgments it has already well described the issue of sexual identity in relation to Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. This is also what this Senate said at a session in 2016, of which we have the shorthand, in which President Grasso rejected the request, precisely on the basis that the issue of civil unions, which was then being examined, should refer to Article 2 of the Constitution, which is outside the speech we are making on the secret vote. So, from a certain point of view, to Senator Calderoli who says "stop," we answer "stop you," because the country does not follow you, does not understand you. [[Applause]] One is afraid and for this reason one has come to say that the secret vote is to give freedom. The secret vote is not to give freedom, but it serves at this moment, when there are no conditions, to find a way out before a situation that nails you to your responsibilities. [[Applause]] It is a healthy act to express your ideas, to put your face on them, to assume your responsibilities, at least in this case. It is an act due to the country, to yourself and perhaps also to your voters. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u61	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I rise on the same subject as my fellow Members, Mr President, on a point of order and on your decision to allow the secret vote. Since all the groups have spoken, not by my decision, and everyone has expressed their opinion, I would like to briefly mention, remaining on the technical and legal profile, the reasons which led me and my group to ask for the secret vote, which you, Mr President, granted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in our opinion. I am only doing this because it does not seem that our silence is an endorsement of the arguments which Mr Zanda first put on the table and then all the others. The vote on the non-version to articles, as has already been explained, is a substantive vote and not a procedural issue. The procedural questions are in fact the suspensive and prejudiceal ones: this is so true that it is enough to check the debate on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and it will occur that the intention of those who wrote the Rules of Procedure of the Senate is to guarantee this as an institute of merit, which in fact intervenes after the general discussion on the substance of the bill, which, once approved, cannot be reversed. It is therefore clear that we intervene in the merits of a bill, which provides widely in its complex issues related to the freedom of exercise of conscience, a vow of conscience: therefore secret. I don't see why you can deny it. I would just like to say one thing: we do not ask for the secret vote for us, because our opinion on this issue is very clear. We could vote openly, without a secret vote, and we already know what we can vote on. We are doing this to protect Parliament and the political groups, who have the right to vote secretly on issues relating to freedom of conscience. It is really very strange that, on the eve of a debate about the freedom and rights of people, those who claim to defend the rights of people and to want to enlarge them, here in the Senate commit themselves to denying the right of secret voting, which is one of those fundamental rights that the parliamentarians must above all be guaranteed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u64	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would just like to ask you a question, because I did not mean and did not subscribe to speak on the subject of the request for a secret vote. But have you made up your mind before, Mr. President? [[Applause]] Why, since you had already decided, has there been this debate, with the speeches of the individual groups, on a matter on which you had decided? Mr President, I considered the debate on this absolutely not useful. [[Comments.]] No, it is not a point of order, because the President had already decided, he had deliberated; otherwise I would have signed up to speak and would have expressed my opposition to the request for a secret vote, declaring the vote on a proposal. But it seemed to me that you, Mr President, had already decided. I should therefore like to ask you why the debate on a decision that has already been taken has begun.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u66	One person has already spoken for his Group, so he can no longer speak. [[Senator Licheri's comments.]] Would you like to speak on the point of order? Senator Perilli has already spoken. [[Comments.]] Let me see what you want to do. [[Comments.]] If you have to speak out of the microphone, have the courtesy to shut up, because I can't hear you anyway. Sit down! [[Comments.]] Senator Santangelo, you're a very rude man! That is not the case with the Presidency. You're rude! Sit down! No gestures are being made to the Presidency. [[Happy comments.]] YOU'RE OUT OF MICROPHONE. Get out! Get out! [[Happy comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You are admonished. You're welcome, Senator. Mr President, you asked the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group to speak and asked you to speak on this point. [[Applause]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Licheri, tell me... I don't feel anything. Tell me why you asked for the floor. I asked you to speak as President of the Movimento 5 Star Group... [[Comments.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Look, you, as a member of the Movimento 5 Star Group... Let me finish, Mr President, or else we won't be clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If it is on Article 92... LICHERI (M5S). I simply asked for the floor on the point of order, on the basis of what Senator Zanda has introduced into the debate in this House. That's it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Perilli has already spoken and, according to the Rules of Procedure, he could speak - and I have allowed him to speak - one per Group; in fact, I could not even let one speak per Group if he reads Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure. LICHERI (M5S). I don't discuss your prerogative... president. Senator Licheri, thank you. You can't talk, Senator Perilli has already spoken. Agree within the Group on whom to intervene. [[Applause. Vivaci commentati]] Senator Santangelo, he's censored. Soon they will leave the Chamber and I will prevent you from voting. Stop it, Senator Santangelo! YOU'RE OUT OF MICROPHONE. Get out! Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It does not force me to take you away from the Chamber if you continue with your disrespectful conduct towards the Presidency. I don't admit any such gestures. He can do it elsewhere, not in here. [[Applause]] YOU'RE OUT OF MICROPHONE. Get out! Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you can re-establish a moment of peace, I would like to be able to respond. With all due respect, the objection raised by Senator Pharaoh is unfounded. On my statement on the admissibility of the secret vote there was a point of order under Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure. I made everyone talk, so I don't understand this sense of great tension. I therefore read the second paragraph of Article 92: The President may, however, consider the importance of the matter, give the floor to one speaker for each parliamentary group. I repeat: to one speaker for each parliamentary group. It is a faculty that I have given, given the importance of the subject, and it is not due in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I repeat this, to explain that, having already spoken to Senator Perilli, there was no desire to shut someone's mouth, but only to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which had already had an extensive application, taking into account the importance of the bill under discussion today. [[Applause]] With this due parenthesis over, I would like to reply to what has been observed. Bearing in mind that we are all aware of the fact that this is a draft law dealing with a subject in which issues of principle and reasons of opportunity come together and which involves the conscience of each one, I have only been asked to decide on the request for a secret vote, which is a matter exclusively legal and not by chance I have referred to the Rules of Procedure and the precedents. Senator Zanda, as well as Senator De Petris, said that here, the non-transition to the examination of the articles, provided for in Rule 96 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, would be of nature and procedural nature. It is not so and not only on the basis of the previous mentioned by Senator De Petris, regarding civil unions: the secret ballot on the vote of no passage to the examination of the articles was not granted for reasons of content, but only for reasons of inadmissibility, which is a profoundly different issue. Moreover, if I have to draw a precedent, in fact a precedent on admissibility is, and it is of April 30, 1998, regarding the bill signed by Salvato and others, on the abolition of the sentence of life imprisonment. In this case the previous was for acceptance. Again, if that is not enough, I would like to recall a Council for the Rules of Procedure that I convened on December 12, 2018. I remember that well, because a question had been raised about a preliminary ruling, which was rejected, because the preliminary ruling was considered procedural in nature and, for accidents, it was really very clear that instead the non-transition to the examination of the articles was of a nature of merit. This is the Council for the Rules of Procedure - which I have here before me - of December 12, 2018. On that occasion, in the summary of the session of the Committee for the Rules of Procedure, I read: In fact, the President (...) considers that an answer in unique terms can only be given to the institution of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles referred to in Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, for which the secret ballot, using the conditions laid down in Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure, is peacefully admissible. For incident, a senator has spoken about this that I highly esteem, Senator Parrini. As I read an agency in which Senator Parrini invites me to decide, on the basis of fairness, not to grant the secret vote because the request not to move to the articles would be a purely procedural question, again at the aforementioned session of the Council for the Rules of Procedure, Senator Parrini had to say: " (..) a proposal not to move to the articles (...), being in the substance of a vote that also involves the merit of the measure". Colleagues, discretion becomes arbitrary when there are no benchmarks; my discretion has had precise benchmarks in the precedents that I have just read and in the Rules of Procedure. But even more, if we want to go further on this issue, as you know, because Senator Perilli rightly said that it has been years discussing the issue, well, the House, which has certainly discussed it for a long time, has concluded the final vote - and I stress the final vote, which therefore concerns the merit of the whole measure - with a secret vote. Therefore, I am comforted not only by precedents coming from this Assembly and the Council for the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly, but also by the Chamber which, in the final vote, accepted the request for secret ballot, made in that branch of the Parliament by Brothers of Italy, because - I read - the provision that has not been submitted (...) affects as a whole on the basis of a judgment of prevalence. And here I also answer the question of prevalence, Articles 13, 16, 21, 24 and 25 of the Constitution. I believe that my decision - although it is legitimate to challenge, since it is an interpretation - has solid legal foundations. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u69	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to have come back to a debate in a tense climate. We have a historic chance to close a gap in our criminal justice system and what do we do? We are very passionate about formal issues instead of going into the substance. As emerged from the discussion, the main issue is the notion of gender identity. I have to say that listening to the arguments of the right in relation to the concept of gender identity, my arms really fall. Does anyone really think that after the Zan law is passed, everyone can wake up and change sex? [[Applause]] You know what it takes to change sex? It takes a trial and opinions of doctors and psychologists. What are you talking about? They are crazy fake news and I am surprised that intelligent people, as well as President Romeo I esteem, can repeat completely absurd arguments. The concept of gender identification is very important and above all it is already present in our order, having been introduced precisely in reference to the law that allows to change sex. My question is whether the concept of gender identity should necessarily be present in a criminal case. We are talking about a criminal case and we know that it cannot be in the presence of internal behaviors that are not externalized and are not recognizable by the potential aggressor. I therefore believe that the concept is not suitable for a criminal offence. I also think that with the term gender, which is a little wider, we can say that the concept of gender identity is also present. I mean, we're not that far away, with a little common sense and will, you could reach a compromise. I believe that colleagues from the right centre took a big step; at first they said that there was no need for a law, then they recognized the need for a law, accepting the Zan law and the concept of gender that until then was smoke in their eyes. I believe that we progressives must now take a step too; it is not that there is no other law but that literally formulated as the Zan law. All over Europe there are anti-hate laws, all structured differently. In seeking a compromise, we could formulate the law in a different way, as for example I proposed with an amendment tabled with my colleague Pharaoh, starting from the motivation of the aggressor for homophobia, misogyny or explicitly defining the term gender so that it also involves the notion of gender identity. I still hope that Parliament will not vote for the non-turn to articles, that it will move the law forward and approve it because it would really be a good signal for the country. I therefore announce the Group's vote against the request for a change to the articles. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u72	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, Brothers of Italy will vote strongly in favour of the request for no passage to the articles, tabled by Senator La Russa because we are convinced that issues should be discussed in another way. We started with this bill approved in the House in a demonstrative way in the sense that it was quickly approved, probably thinking that it would get stuck in some way. And then there was the will on the part of someone to consider it immutable and incorrigible, not to want to make any modification, despite so many, so many voices have risen not only from political representatives of the center-right and people considered probably conservative, but also from the world of the left; also from the world of feminism there have been so many voices to say that this text is wrong. After that, this misplaced intransigence has returned and is turning against those who put it into action. We do not want to change things that are clearly modifiable, that it would be desirable to modify in any way you think, certainly does not help the conduct of a calm debate. I remember, among other things, that very interesting work was being done in the Commission and that the hearings were of high content; both some people were audited against the approach of this bill and those who were in favour of it. Well, we were working in the Commission, but we were in a hurry to bring the measure to the House. The result was not that this House was able to move forward with the debate (there was only the general debate), but it was to prevent work in the Commission. This, already starting from the procedural point of view, makes it impossible or, in any case, much more difficult any kind of work on the subject. Brothers of Italy has always given willingness to discuss measures which, if considered, can be taken to protect people even more effectively from acts of violence, aggression and harassment because of their sexual orientation. But in this draft law there is much, much more; we wanted to put something else; we wanted to insert definitions, from Article 1, totally ideological and moreover also formulated in an absurd way, even marrying the theory gender, which is a very well-founded theory, which exists and was born in the United States. Professor Judith Butler was one of her main exponents, despite some even screaming to say that this theory doesn't exist. This theory, which is very complex, basically says that there is no connection between the sex to which you belong and sexual orientation. Therefore, as is also stated in the documents and in that national strategy against LGBT discrimination drawn up by UNAR (which Article 8 of this bill would raise almost at the level of the law), the fact that a male, for example, has an attraction to women and vice versa is only one possibility. And that should be taught in schools. It should be said to the children: look, do not be closed in the stereotypes that have taught you; perhaps you were born males, but perhaps you feel female; sexual attraction is yet another thing. Well, if we want to do an ideological operation, and more of ideologies of this kind, we are not. That is why we are voting against this badly-written bill. Something useful could be done. I would remind you that all kinds of violence, aggression, harassment and discrimination against people because of their sexual orientation are already being punished today. We reiterate that we were and are willing to discuss something that goes in this direction, but let us say no to a measure that limits the freedom of expression of all. Even his presenter said that: Mr Zan said that people need to think twice before talking. Before speaking and offending is one thing, but before speaking and expressing one's convictions is another; people must be free to express them. As an example, I remember only one thing. When Pope Benedict XVI was elected Honorable Zan, the eponym of this bill, made a press release with which he commented in a negative way the election of Cardinal Ratzinger to Supreme Pontiff, saying that the homophobic line held by his predecessor would continue. Therefore, in the opinion of Mr Zan, for example, John Paul II and Benedict XVI are homophobes. This already seems to me an indication of how this law could be interpreted. As has been said by those who preceded me, you will go before the judge for everything. In the face of this, we have no doubt in voting in favour of the non-transition to the articles because the wrong path has been followed and it is better to close it here. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u75	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, it seems to me that we are finally getting some clarity on this day. I also thank President Calderoli who explained so well the positions of the League and - I imagine - the center-right that completely marries that line. Basically, as has been said, those who wanted to present the proposal not to move to the examination of the articles wanted to make it clear that they want to bring down the law against hate crimes. [[Applause]] So we could stop the explanation of vote here. On the one hand, there are those who want to bring down a law against hate crimes; on the other hand, those who have always believed that the law is necessary and sacrosanct. These are precisely the forces that have been accused of being bullies over the last few months. The measure arrived in the Senate from the Chamber of Deputies and, since President Calderoli made an excursion, will allow me to insert a series of passages to clarify better why our version is slightly different. The measure, drawn up by various forces of the majority, was approved in the House of Deputies by a large majority. When he arrived in the Senate, he ended up in the drawers of the Justice Commission and was buried because, according to the President of the Commission and the centre-right forces, there was no need to talk about this issue because it was not necessary, nor was it an emergency, because hate crimes are not there and because it was not a priority. [[Applause]] Then, in the fury of insisting, together with the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, LEU and the Group for the Autonomies, the Democratic Party managed to forcefully take it out of that Commission, because, after being scheduled, it risked to continue to be buried by that number of hearings that Mr Mirabelli has highlighted today. There has therefore been a will for great obstructionism. But then the line changed. After the obstruction, the center-right began to say that perhaps the law could be useful (in fact, it was necessary) and that it wanted a law against hate crimes, deciding to present a completely different one and in antithesis, giving up the work done previously in the Chamber of Deputies. There is another thing that has objectively complicated the picture (although in the face of complicated frameworks you can find solutions). One of the forces of the majority that had contributed to the drafting of the measure, also through one of its Minister and the Parent Company in the Commission Justice (I speak of Italy Viva-PSI), here in the Senate decided to hold another line. Clearly, the situation changes. From our point of view, it would have been more useful to march together; since we all recognized its urgency and necessity, it would have been useful to go rights. But, in the face of all these hiccups, the effort has been greater and we do not hide it. Greater fatigue, but with clear intent. We have always wanted to bring home a law and we have come to say, in the face of a situation that was getting more and more complicated, that we could also be willing to change a proposal that we married, that we carried on and that has found so much response in society. We could try to change it and build a shared path together, given the wills (apparent, apparently) of the center-right to work on that law text. It wasn't like that. Yesterday we finally had clarity about this and we have it today. In yesterday's meetings it was very clear that this sword of Damocles of the non-passion to the examination of articles, that rejects the provision, that makes him die and that, if it were to pass, it will not give this country a law of this nature against hate crimes, it must remain there, firm, and prevent any form of mediation. If we are prepared to dialogue, then we would all also like to be sure that we are prepared to dialogue on that text and on the amendments that have been tabled, not on something else. That is why - and I am sorry - we have been firm on this point: to remove the rejection of this measure, which you are presenting today with great pride. I have heard it in the words of those who have illustrated the proposal not to pass to the examination of the articles; you are proud to try to reject this provision, because you continue to think it does not serve. We have heard this in all your speeches in general debate: we have heard the underestimating of the problem, we have heard how you explain the problem. We belong to another story, we belong to the history of those who want to defend the rights, to the history of those European countries that are on the side of the rights [[Applause]] and that in Europe they do not sit on the side of the sovereignists and totalitarianisms that take away the value of women and the LGBT community. They're sitting with you, I'm sorry, and you're still in it. Perhaps it would be necessary for this country - as I recalled last week - to have a true liberal right with which to confront itself, which is not afraid of diversity and which considers diversity a wealth. Clearly, everyone is free to vote as they please, but I wonder what you will tell your children when you tell them that you voted against a law that was going to protect people who are the object of hate crimes. What will you tell them? The world fortunately does not stop in this House. There's a country outside. [[Applause]] , there are our children, who are a thousand times ahead of us. For our children this law is even old; they are beyond and look at politics hoping that politics will give signals. [[Applause]] The day after the election we are all really good at saying that there is the phenomenon of abstentionism, that there is no participation, that young people do not follow us. But let us give the answers, let us make Parliament! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u78	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, as you made clear in your earlier speech on the point of order, we will vote firmly against the non-transition to the Rules of Procedure. But I want to be very clear. Mr Malpezzi has already rebuilt the process, but I want to retrace some very clear passages. The Zan bill, approved in the House, where, moreover, the contribution you have made in some passages is exactly what you are now questioning, arrived at the Senate in the Justice Commission in November 2019. Now we celebrate the two years; this is what happened. The Justice Commission was the place where we could work on the text and you know it perfectly well. Instead, you have put in place continuous practices of obstruction in the face of hundreds, for example, of hearings or never putting it on the agenda, but always putting it back on the agenda. That is the place - our Commissions are like this - where we work on the text. I say that because it seems that you all woke up now and said that you wanted to improve the text. Unfortunately, I have to take note of what happened, no more, no less. From the beginning, in fact, you have proudly claimed that you did not want to lead us to discuss and approve the law. What is the instrument in the hands of parliamentary groups and senators to try to remove the bill from the bag in which it was finished? It was practically in the Commission's swamp and the intention was to bring it to the House to deal with the amendments and the debate here before everyone. You could not escape the fact that a very well-kept public and a large number of citizens were rightly asked to go ahead with the adoption of a law that does not remove rights, but extends them. [[Applause]] And when the rights are extended, no one should have this reaction because it concerns the good we do to society. And then you file a bill. Actually, Senator Ronzulli also said this morning that there were already the rules of the penal code and, therefore, that it was not really understood what it was for. However, the senator presents a bill, which is the opposite - if that was to be the basis of dialogue, I don't know what dialogue you are talking about - and she even tries to question the Mancino law. This is the reality of the facts. Let us now return to the question of dialogue. At yesterday's strange meeting, there was again a request to see if there was a chance of a resumption of the dialogue. But I don't know how you guys are used to it. You may have more experience of wars than I have, but when you meet at a table you don't keep the smoking gun on the table. We asked - that was a sign that we really wanted to go into the matter and try to do a common job - to remove the request that we are now discussing not going to the articles because you know perfectly well and you have claimed it. The purpose of this request is, in fact, to try to sink and put a tombstone on the law and maybe try to make you a bill to try to do another operation. That's the point. You have shown this in fact today (and this is proof now that we are about to vote) that you had no intention of finding a meeting point. This is today's political question. What did it cost you? You had hundreds of amendments, many of which were normal for them to go to the secret vote. So there was every possibility, without using the instrument to sink it, to intervene better. It is for this reason that I think that from the beginning you have pursued a clear and precise objective, which from your point of view is clearly a political objective, which is that - once again - to prevent this country from having a law of civilization against all discrimination and against hate crimes, because that is clearly what you do not want. For this reason, we will clearly vote against your request not to move on to the articles. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u81	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I do not want to say that I will be brief, because I fear that I will fail to do the same, but I will try, given that many things have been said in this House and even outside of it, to draw the synthesis, the essence of our different perspectives. Let me just say one thing, colleagues, with all the respect of the world: there are no good people and no bad people. [[Applause]] There is no such thing as generous and homophobic, there is no such thing as guardians of the truth, and there is no such thing as fools in bad faith. [[Applause]] That's not how it works, colleagues. There are differences of opinion, perhaps on the same subject, perhaps to arrive at the same solution, only through a different way, perhaps better. Friends, it's called freedom. [[Applause]] Freedom, exactly what you say you want to protect in your measure, which could have been our measure too, if you had allowed us to really work together, to really put ourselves in front of each other around a table and dip the pen not in prejudice, recriminations, labels, finger pointing - this week too you point your finger at us, enough! - but in common sense and in the capacity to mediate, because - I repeat - there is no one truth, there is no one thought, indeed we should all run away from the one thought. That is exactly what we say we do not want with the law that contrasts non-inclusivity, discrimination, hate crimes and homophobia. The fact that we have a different opinion must be guaranteed. Colleagues, we don't all feel the same way. I assure you that sensitivity to this rule is widely shared within the parliamentary group that I have the honour to represent. This rule has a title that those who speak to you consider important for the legal history of our country. The problem is that the content does not match the title. [[Applause]] There are profoundly illiberal regulatory moments. He said this - I assure you, without demagogy - who in those famous hearings did not come to advocate a political position, but to represent an opinion, those opinions that under Article 4 of the rule could not be represented if this rule were not changed. Friends, colleagues, please, let us not lie, because those who look at us from outside and hear us speak today have the feeling of a dialogue between the dumb and the deaf. We accepted a mediation five months ago and were absolutely willing to put on the table our way of doing things and sharing it with you, compare it with yours to find the solution. A mediation is precisely this: something granted, something received. On that side, colleagues - let me point my finger too - there are only requests for concessions, only hymns to war. [[Applause]] But what smoking guns, colleagues? We are in a Parliamentary Chamber: nobody shoots anyone. We are merely trying to represent the rights of those who feel differently from those who receive this rule. Isn't that legitimate? Don't they belong to the category of people we represent? [[Applause]] I repeat, someone who is deeply convinced of the spirit of this norm, but not so, not a norm that contradicts itself. As Mr Calderoli said, so I will not dwell on this, we have accepted several forcings on your part. I don't want to use the word "ricacati" because I would go into a controversy that I regret to use against you. We have been forced to come to this House by interrupting a mediation which was officiated by the former draftsman of the Zan bill, President Ostellari, who we believe could be pursued effectively, with satisfaction. There were points on which we did not find ourselves and we did not go forward because you asked us for proof of love, as always. It is a constant demand for evidence of love: let us go to the Chamber, schedule the speeches, remove the non-transition to the articles, remove the request for referral back to the Commission. All this, friends, with your favorite formula, that of the blank bill: we do one thing and you do not commit to a counterpart. Friends, this is not called negotiation, but prevarication and we do not accept prevarications. [[Applause]] I begin with the conclusion of my speech, because you, Mr President, are always very kind, but a minimum of brevity with respect to my usual ocean interventions should be there, because we have to vote. Yesterday during the meeting we were very impressed, because on Sunday evening a world had opened up: they want to negotiate. After saying five days before they only want to schedule a vote, just do it, with a total opposition, the Secretary Letta tells us that he intends to open up to negotiation. It is magnificent, but this negotiation is not at all hesitant in a real behavior. We have lost so much, too much time always with that dynamic dialogue between the dumb and the deaf that leads nowhere. You, in fact, should have the courage to say that for you this vote is a win-win option, win-win: if you sink it is our fault, ugly, dirty, bad, homophobic, those who will still be blamed for the sinking of a rule that will not be sinked, but will only have a six-month wait on which we can work to finally try to bring back the less significant aspects of this measure of equity. On the other hand, if the process of this bill went on, you would be the hard and pure ones who decided to carry it forward without granting anything to us. However, I repeat to you that you do not grant anything, but to the people who have the right to have a voice, regardless of what the norm represents. [[Applause]] , as those who think they can legitimately say that they prefer the traditional family. I don't have to give any examples, because so many have been made. I repeat: it is just and proper to combat discrimination and hate crimes, as it is right and proper to be sure that we do not fall into the same trap, that we do not produce the famous boomerang effect. In fact, as some previous Members have rightly pointed out, this bill does not add rights. It is obvious that if I insult a person on the basis of his or her sexual orientation, they are already punishable in criminal and civil proceedings. You all know that, colleagues know that. However, it is equally clear that if I impose a sanction on a criminal law in white, which transforms in crime undefined behavior that we still do not see in the norm, I am really committing the worst of the damage to the recipients of that rule. I believe that we have understood, Mr President, that we have not lost the hope of drawing up a rule which also represents this part of the House and that part of the rights that this part of the House represents, because the way in which the regulation of the rights of freedom and fundamental rights is conceived is also very transversal within us. Mr President, we, however, do not accept taking or leaving or, as Mr Gasparri said, or Zan or death, because that does not mean having courage. This means being afraid to confront, hurting those who say they want to favor. [[Applause]] We will therefore vote in favour of not moving to the articles, in order to allow this rule to return to the table and to discuss the points we consider essential. We don't quit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u84	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, one day our children, our grandchildren, or perhaps our great-grandchildren, will be shocked by the surreal atmosphere by the annals of this Senate's sessions and by the way of today's debate. Those who had the chance to browse some time of the history books will have noticed how, in the period of the great conquests, after the conquest, the invasion, the robbery of the new world, a heated debate developed in Europe, which involved learned and experienced, literary and philosophers: we wonder whether the indigenous people, that is the inhabitants of those new lands, had the soul and if they could be considered, therefore, equal to the inhabitants of the old Europe. We're doing the same thing today. According the secret vow on this provision, because it is interpreted as an ethical question, puts us on the same footing as those fake 16th century scholars, who wondered if the indigenous had the soul. [[Applause]] If we were discussing racism, I do not think that in 2021 someone would have the courage to bring ethical issues into play and behind these trenching for a secret vote. Not in 2021, but maybe 30 years ago. See how things change. Today you wouldn't have the courage to ask for the secret vote on racism, at least I want to wish it, but today you had the courage to ask for the secret vote on homolesbobitransphobia. Are LGBT people our equals or are they not? [[Applause]] That's what you're wondering! That is what you are asking this House! Your sons and your daughters will one day turn against you, because you have not understood them, for they are far ahead of you. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please let Senator Maiorino continue. Please, Senator, go ahead. MAIORIN (M5S). I was surprised to hear President Bernini say that there is not a single truth, because that is perfectly in line with what I have just said. To say that there is not one truth means that it is lawful to think that, in some way, homosexuality, bisexuality or transsexuality are still a deviance and a condition of inferiority. [[Applause]] There is a truth: men and women, human beings, are all equal and have equal dignity before the law and before the institutions. This is an incontrovertible truth. A revolution is happening, yes. That is why I can also understand the disorientation of some. LGBT people went through alternate stages, ranging from open and even legitimate persecution, to tolerance, provided they were not overly visible. These are the alternate phases that, in history, have crossed the LGBT people. What is today's revolution? That today they require full legitimacy in society, true and substantial equality of all rights, because either rights are of all or are privileges. [[Applause]] This naturally causes disorientation in some and I can understand it, but I want to be prophetic: it is a calculation error, ladies and gentlemen, of the center-right. Even your voters, not everyone will follow you in the anti-historical crusade you embraced. [[Applause]] You have seen the dozens and dozens of Pride that have taken place all over Italy, full of young and very young: those meanwhile you have played from the point of view of consents, but certainly will not embrace an ideology, the one so loser, defeated by history. One thing I would also like to say to my colleagues in the League, who earlier, by exploiting a part of feminism - a small and minority part of the total feminism - pontificate that this law would be against women. Senator Romeo, for whom I think from a professional point of view, said this surrounded by males. [[Comments.]] A swallow isn't springtime. Senator Romeo said what's good for women. We must have credibility and authority to talk about equality and to talk about women's rights. And you don't have credibility. [[Applause]] I turn to Forza Italia, who seems to have decided to follow the League and Brothers of Italy on this slope. Do you really want to follow Lega e Forza Italia in the arms of Orban and Duda? That's where they're leading you. The question is much more important than the Zan bill on which we vote on the leghold trap today: it is a question of European and global geopolitical positioning. Think about what you do and don't vote for the trap. [[Applause]] A final appeal to Italy Viva: give up the formulation "homophobia and transphobia." It was also mine, it was also in my original text, but I gave it up, because it was defeated by history and jurisprudence. The terminology that is appropriate and attested from the case-law point of view is sexual orientation and gender identity. Give up the flag and a compromise, an agreement is found. Finally, Mr President, I would ask Senators Calderoli and La Russa, who are proposing the regulatory instrument of leghold traps, to give up the secret vote. If you are convinced of your motives, give up the secret vote and allow the senators and senators of this House to look at the voters face-to-face and assume their responsibilities in front of the country. Give up the secret vote. Our vote will, of course, be against the leghold trap. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u87	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I think it is really paradoxical if this House should prevail - of course, which is absolutely not desired by those who have supported a measure against homotransphobic discrimination - the request not to move on to the articles. The paradox would be that the only ones who could not discuss, propose or table amendments to the measure would be the only ones who should have written the measure itself, i.e. the senators. Should the request not pass to the articles be approved, everyone will have talked about Zan bill - the influencers will have done it on May 1st, Letta da Fazio will have done it, journalists and commentators will have done it - and the only ones who will not be able to discuss the provision and will not be able to make changes or keep it as it is the senators of the Republic. [[Applause]] I believe that this is truly scandalous, because we have heard all the political forces and all of them, Mr President, have said that they want this measure. After that, the political forces decide differently: who presents the request for a secret vote, who forces us to confront each other, despite the fact that there has been a willingness to discuss the text; asking even a week at least to check whether the words of the Secretary of the Letta Democratic Party could be built so that they could have immediate consequences. And I am talking about that Democratic Party which, for months, has said, in this House, that the measure would be voted on as it was, without any change: that party which last Sunday - not a century ago, but a few days ago - said, through the words of its greatest exponent, that would open itself to dialogue and try to change the measure to get it approved by this House. It has only been a few hours and we have seen, through the convening of the Commission by President Ostellari, the possibility of starting a substantive argument, Mr President, because we are not talking about the substance in this House. We are talking not about the law against homotransphobic discrimination, but about anything else, Mr President. It was not possible to deal with the debate on merit, because even yesterday, in front of those who proposed - and we like Italy Viva, from the first day - to sit down and discuss the individual articles, the changes and what must remain, a problem of method has always been posed - they must first withdraw that provision, they must not ask for that vote, without ever being able to discuss the substance. Today we also feel as a little pathetic, President, the appeal to Italy Viva by my colleague Malpezzi and my colleague Maiorino. Senator Maiorino, when we voted for civil unions in this House, where were you? [[Applause]] She was voting against! Your Group voted against civil unions and, therefore, we do not take any lessons and call on you to vote on this measure. [[Applause]] If today the measure has arrived in the Chamber, President, we owe it to Italy Viva who, in all the passages - in all the passages! - voted decisively in favour of dealing with the measure. [[Comments. Call the president back.]] In all the passages, from the Conference of the Leaders, in which the vote of the President of the Italia Viva Group (the undersigned) was decisive in order to schedule the measure, to the time when it was voted, constantly, Italy Viva was decisive in order for the measure to reach this point. We will do our duty to the very end, even if we have not shared this wall against the wall at all, it is the idea of ideological flags that will reap victims, if it does not pass the measure, only among those who will be the beneficiaries of a law against homotransphobic discrimination, because on this point there is a regulatory vacuum. If we don't question how to find a conclusion, that regulatory vacuum will continue to exist. And all those who have shouted, chatted, battered that there is no law, that those people remain uncovered and that discrimination takes place every day, will be accomplices to those who did not want this provision, because the ideological confrontation, the secret vote and the Russian roulette that they are forcing us to compromise the approval of the law. Today, therefore, we will vote against the proposal not to move to the examination of the articles, because we are convinced that this measure must be approved and discussed by the senators and not in the talk shows: not in the square, but by the senators. [[Applause]] Senators must also be able to play a role of change and it is not acceptable for those who say that the law is taken as it is, or do nothing about it. I am a legislator and, as such, I have the right and the duty to participate to amend and improve its text. Therefore, Mr President, we shall vote against the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, and we hope that with our vote the law will remain in the balance of the Senate debate. We always hope that dialogue can resume, even after this vote, because of secret votes there may be others. And if there is no agreement in this House, this measure will not be approved and the women and men waiting for it will be the victims of an ideological confrontation that has nothing to do with them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u90	Mr Quegliariello (Misto-IEC). Mr President, I will only speak for a few minutes. I would have reunited with this speech, because I do not share the final tones that have been used in this House and I believe that this is a passage into a complex affair. But I decided to ask for the floor first of all for a regulatory reason: if I had not done so, we would in some way have attested to the procedural nature of the vote, where we share the Presidency's decision, which led to the secret vote. I therefore declare that the 7 Senators of the Idea and Cambiamo component, in dissent from the position taken by the majority of the Mixed Group, will vote in favour of the non passage to the articles. And they will for a reason. In fact, it is not the opposition to violence and homophobia that is blocking the confrontation, and it is not freedom of choice: things that, as far as myself and my colleagues are concerned, are sacrosing. What is blocking the comparison is what is meant by sexuality, between those who believe that it is something however related to a biological fact, which must be taken into account even when making different choices, and those who consider sexuality a merely cultural fact. If we don't get this rock out of the way, we can't move on. That is the reason, Mr President - and I shall conclude with this - for which, even if the vote were to sanction the victory of those who have submitted the proposals not to move to the articles in favour of which we will vote, we would be so that the debate within the Senate would continue and we would be willing to subscribe to the mediation that the friends of Italy Viva, in particular Senator Cucca, have repeatedly proposed. However, we believe that this is an easier road to reach by taking a rock out of the way, rather than magnifying it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u91	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal for a non-version to the examination of the articles, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the Rules of Procedure. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Live applause. Comments.]] Colleagues, I suspend the sitting which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 1.41 p.m. and resumed at 5.28 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u92	Colleagues, please take your seats and possibly free the hemicycle. The Conference of Leaders, which established the timetable for work until 4 November, has just ended. In the afternoon of today, until 8 p.m., no later than, and possibly during tomorrow's sitting, the discussion of the decree-law on forest fires will continue. After the vote of the decree-law, the following arguments will be examined: the first Senate resolution on the constitutional bill amending Article 119 of the Constitution for the recognition of the disadvantage deriving from the insularity; the bill on the qualifying university titles, linked to the budget maneuver. Next week's schedule provides, starting at 3 p.m. on Tuesday, for discussion of the following measures: the European law 2019-2020, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and related reports on Italy's participation in the European Union; possible follow-up of the unfinished topics; the decree-law on sustainable infrastructure and mobility (where transmitted in good time by the Chamber); the second Senate resolution on the constitutional bill on the constitutional protection of the environment, for which qualified majority voting of the members of the Senate is provided; the bill so-called saves the sea from the drawing up office. Thursday 4 November, from 3 p.m., the question time will take place with the presence of Ministers for Justice, Economic Development and Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u93	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 4 November: [[Thursday, October 28 h. 9,30-20 - Following draft law n. 2381 - Decree-Law n. 120, Forest fires (decades on November 8) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 865 - Amendment to article 119 of the Constitution for the recognition of the disadvantage deriving from the insularity (first resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 2305 - Enabling university titles (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (connected to the budget maneuver) (final vote with the presence of the legal number)]] [[Tuesday, November 2, h. 15-20 - Drawing of law n. 2169 - European Law 2019-2020 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) and related doc. LXXXVI, No 4 and Doc. LXXXVII, n. 4 - Programmatic and consuntive relations on the participation of Italy in the European Union - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 121, Infrastructures and sustainable mobility (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on November 9) Drawing of constitutional law n. 83-212-938-1203-1532-1627-1632-2160-B - Constitutional protection of the environment (second resolution of the Senate) (vote by absolute majority of the members of the Senate) Drawing of law n. 1571 - SalvaMare (from the writing office) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 4, 15) Wednesday 3 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 4 " h. 9,30-20]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law no.... (Decree-Law No. 121, Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility) will be established in relation to the work of the Commission. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2381 (Decree-Law No 120, Forest Fires) (Groups 5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2305 (Enabling university titles) (4 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2169 (European Law 2019-2020) and related documents LXXXVI, No 4, and LXXXVII, No 4 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 121, Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility) (4 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u96	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to pay tribute in this House to Michele Montagano, who is now one hundred years old and whose life is an example for each of us and for the new generations. Michele Montagano is a symbol of patriotism, courage and awareness of how much a choice can be worth even more than a lifetime. On September 8, 1943, a very young Petty Officer of the Italian Army, he refused to join the Salò regime and refused any collaboration with the Nazi Fascists. It was 650,000 Italian soldiers who said no and who paid with the arrest, with the trains plummeted, with the torture, with the concentration camps, many of them with the death. It was their choice to keep alive the dignity of our Tricolor, scarred and muddled by Nazi Fascism. Michele Montagano was imprisoned in eight Nazi prison camps, because he was military, Italian, anti-fascist. To IMI, the Italian military internees, the Nazis denied the recognition of prisoners of war and were stripped of the uniform, hungry, humiliated, forced to work. On February 24, 1945, in the field of Wietzendorf, forty-four officers - and among them Michele Montagano - offered their lives to save twenty-one young soldiers from the shooting desired by the Gestapo for a demonstration punishment; they were sentenced to death and led into the field of punishment of Unterlüss, and since then they are called "The Heroes of Unterlüss." Some survived, like Michele Montagano, others died of beatings, such as Alberto Pepe, Giuliano Nicolini, Giorgio Tagliente. Michele Montagano doesn't like being called a hero; he calls himself an Italian officer who has done his duty. From the train that led him to Germany, he threw out a note, a message, on which he had written: I am in the hands of the Germans, my conscience is intact, alive Italy. That ticket was collected and it came to us. Every year Michele Montagano meets dozens of schoolchildren and his memory and civil testimony are a powerful antidote against indifference, against the loss of civil and political conscience that is the foundation of our Republic. So, live your hundred years, Michele Montagano, and live Italy [[Applause]] , as always you have repeated in the months of imprisonment, refusing to bend and giving us here your values. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u97	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2381. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, having to finish work by 8 p.m., I will be very strict in ensuring that the deadlines are respected and, indeed, I would ask you to reduce the duration of the interventions where possible. I call the rapporteur, Senator Quarto.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u98	Mr President, the decree-law we are debating today is practically monothematic, but it is not for this reason that it is not complex, on the contrary. The measure is necessary and urgent because not only of the summer disasters (with more than 150,000 hectares of wood destroyed, millions of dead animals and substantial damage), but also of the catastrophic forecasts also related to climate change. The latest medicine in place in Sicily and Calabria is a rather significant demonstration of what is happening with climate change. First of all, I would like to thank the co-rapporteur, Senator Briziarelli, with whom, even in the various political views, I have always managed to find an excellent synthesis and a solution to the problems, even complex ones, with the exception of one case, namely amendment 1,52, for which we could have different opinions, but we agreed to return first to the Commission and, today, to the House. I think this is noble politics. In addition to the co-rapporteur, I would like to thank the Commission, the Government, all my fellow Senators who have contributed and my colleagues in the House of Deputies. I would also like to thank the 45 contributions received (15 of them at the hearing) in the form of requests and clarifications for a constructive comparison. I would also like to thank the Offices for their great work. The Decree-Law under consideration strengthens coordination, technological updating and operational capacity in order to improve monitoring, prevention and active fire control. I do not want to go into the substance of the decree-law, on which I spoke with yesterday's report. I would like to focus on some of the amendments adopted in the Commission which have improved the text in a very shared way, except in one case. The significant amendments approved included in the three-year plan the contribution of the Regions in a more decisive and important way and provided for a greater contribution to the infrastructure, means, equipment and activities of putting animals to safety, as well as incentives on the basis of the results achieved in the fight against fire. In addition, support has been provided for the strengthening of the human resources of firefighters and a certainty of the timing for the relief of onslaughts caused by fire and for publication on institutional sites from which the various prohibitions established by Law No 353 of 21 November 2000 are to be taken and then increased with other prohibitions. Support was also provided to the municipalities for the definition and updating of burnt soils in order to trigger all the relevant prohibitions. This is a great criticality that will be overcome both with the support and support of the municipalities by the regions and the competent territorial authorities, and with the eventual commissioning of the failing municipalities. Then there is the theme of the hydrogeological failure that has been raised in at least two speeches. We are well aware that, in the event of a fire, the soils caused by the fires lose their infiltration capacity by more than 80%. So we have a much larger amount of water flowing, which can cause flashfloods, rather large sudden floods, as well as losing the sealing capacity due to the lack of protection. We have therefore introduced the obligation of a geological report for the final design of the works necessary to combat fires and we have also introduced the need for inspections, by fire, by technicians, geologists and engineers, to assess the priorities of the interventions. We also intervened on the prescribed fire and on the fire, making it part of the prohibitions, contrary to the original version, with the exclusion instead of sanctioning when using these techniques. I now come to two critical points that have been raised. Several colleagues have spoken on the need to reform and rethink the Forestry Corps, which, as you all know, was discontinued in 2016. I do not want to go into the matter now; I simply say that it could not be the decree-law at our time that is the place for this debate, so much so that the amendments which dealt with this problem were considered unacceptable. I do not think this is the right place. There are drafts of law filed in the Senate and drafts of law being discussed in the House and I think that is another proper seat. Without entering into the substance of the matter and without giving my personal judgements, I just say that this could not have been the seat. Finally, there is amendment 1.52, which has now become famous, on the need to protect the land surrounding the fires, the municipalities concerned and neighbouring municipalities, for a hunting season. Again, I do not want to go into the matter; I simply want to say - and I close with this phrase - that there are no environmental ideologies and there is no salutary environmentalism. Environment and economy are two sides of the same coin. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u99	I call the rapporteur, Senator Briziarelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u100	Mr President, more than one reply, I would like to make a few points. I would like to start with a passage from my colleague Pazzaglini (I believe that he was the only one to do so), who said that for once no one contested the urgency of the decree-law in question and the fact that it proceeded with the urgent decree. We know that the two criticisms that are always being made concern urgency and extraneousness to the matter. In fact, at least in this parliamentary term and until now, this was perhaps the decree-law on which we have gone better: no one contested its urgency and very few were the amendments declared extraneous on the subject. In fact, unfortunately, we have gone from one extreme to the other, so much so that a personal regret, and even of all the Groups, is that Amendment 1.0.3 (and the like) has been considered to be extraneous on the subject, that at least in part could have remedied the problem of discontinuous rankings, which had been pointed out in particular by Mr Candiani. I hope that not only on a personal basis, but also on behalf of my colleague, that the problem can be resolved. Among the various subjects against which we unfortunately have to fight, we go from the end of the arsonists to the opposite extreme, perhaps limited and minimal, of the ecoterrorists; among all the people who have to deal often with the fires we have - alas - also subjects that appear in that ranking, with condemnations pronounced. This certainly requires us, as a Parliament, to remedy something which has also been denounced, at the time, by the then Under-Secretary of State, Mr Candiani. Having said that, I would like to add a few passages relating to what my fellow Members have said. It is clear that openness is also a response to my colleague La Pietra, who challenged the decree in its actual possibility to act. If you are opposed, you must not always be opposed to everything; sometimes being in favour of measures like this can also give strength to others, not to others. If you always say no, maybe you lose some value. I come to other points. The issue is important and concerns everyone. Mr Bergesio referred to the size of 38% of the areas occupied by forests. My colleague Mr Coltorti said that it is clear that it is not right-wing, not left-wing, but right-wing measures, and I think that we have given a correct answer to that. I will consider the measure concluded when the Government complies with the commitment. This has been mentioned by some of my colleagues and, in particular, my colleague, Mr Pagano, seems to me to have referred to the need to include resources for some of the agendas in the basic text of the Government. We believe that the measure will be complete not only when it is approved and converted, i.e. today, but when the basic text of the next budget law finds room for what the Government has undertaken to do, even avoiding, as Mr Faggi reminded us, the Budget Committee having to do improper work and having to see Article 81 poorly applied. Instead, it would take me to find more space. I tried to follow all the surgeries. I am still apologizing to Mr Beginini, whose speech is the only one I did not listen to, but I have had the opportunity to read it. My last two points concern a passage from Mr Buccarella's speech and one from Mr Toninelli. I am happy and I can only confirm what my colleague has said. Fourthly, when you said that we agreed on everything and tried to be reasonable, correct and, even where we did not agree, we will return to this House and we will not give the opinion (I refer to Amendment 1.52 and to an agenda). On this point, however, the words of my colleague Mr Quarto also apply to me. We may also want to reform the State Forestry Corps, but we certainly do not do so with this measure and we probably have had the opportunity to do so before, when General Costa was Minister. If it has not been done then, perhaps complaining about it today, it is a little out of place during the debate on this measure. To my colleague, Mr Buccarella, whom I personally esteem, with regard to amendment 1.52 concerning hunting, I would like to say that we started with a problem relating to perimeter. On this there has been a choral effort, so much so that the amendment 3,100 by the rapporteurs - it is no coincidence that it is ours - which has come to various rewordings, has also seen us fight against the administrations for a favourable opinion. I think it is an important step forward and we agree with it: to have a perimeter directly from the Council of Ministers, which can overcome any delays and can make us do quickly and well - we have compressed up to 45 days - I think it is an important step that has seen us united. If we could not reach an even more timely perimeter it was because the same structures, the same bodies, the same Forces of order and the same Ministry of Defense told us that in less time it is not possible to do so. So it is not a matter of will, but it cannot be linked surreptitiously to such an issue - because from here we started - a proposal that initially proposed to introduce the ban on hunting on entire regions involved perhaps for a single occasion of fire and declared emergency. You can be in favour or against hunting; you will have to be open-mouthed with the referendum that will take place on this issue. Then we moved on to territorial hunting grounds (ATC) and municipalities, proving that that was not the theme. I believe that it is right to arrive at a responsible solution in this Parliament that puts an end to the positions not only of hunters and environmentalists. I believe that the position taken, which has been repeated several times both in this House and in the Commission, by all the farmers' associations, which pointed out the risks associated with an excessively strict interpretation of the protection due and due to certain species, if it had been extended in a general way and had also included wild species, in particular wild boar, with risks not only for the health and safety of people, but also incalculable for agriculture, would probably have - I would say personally, not involving my colleague, Mr Quarto - created more problems than perhaps they wanted to solve, even responsibly. I therefore believe that having found a solution to the perimeter with an amendment by the rapporteurs was important, so it will be put back to this House; but if we want to be consistent and believe, also in this matter, that we must find a fair compromise between the economic aspect, that of environmental protection and health, then we can certainly not do so in this measure, but we must have the courage to do so in another way and having sufficient time, because with the time available I believe that it has done well and all too often the best is the enemy of good. This becomes the starting point on which to work, for once in anticipation and prevention and of course also becomes the starting point from which to ask the personal government, resources and shorter times to respond. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u101	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u102	Mr President, I am speaking only in order to address the issue of the decree-law on forest fires, which is being grafted after a summer in which, from 15 June to 30 September, there have been 79,796 interventions on forest fires. This means that there has been an exponential increase, with data perhaps never recorded before in history, despite important historical series that see Italy unfortunately the victim of this phenomenon. It must be said that this decree intervenes in a very precise and direct way and goes above all to do a job that, as we have always said, requires more means and more men. The decree-law to our examination intervenes in this sense, allocating the necessary resources (about 40 million euros) for the Ministry of the Interior and for the Ministry of Defense so that there can be more means to cope with these emergencies in fundamental respect of the law n. 353 of 2000, which as you well know clearly defines the competences. The government's will in this type of intervention is also to define even better ways of supporting even more local authorities that are obviously more difficult, because clearly when it happens that forest fire prevention is carried out, those who have to prevent forest fires encounter difficulties in being able to carry out their work in a completed way. For this reason, in the decree under consideration we insert and define better the areas of fire of urban-rural interface, where it is possible therefore also for the national body of firefighters, in conjunction with the whole system of civil protection, to intervene more effectively. There is a National Fire Plan that is activated, a reconnaissance that is already in place, completed by Civil Protection, of all the tools we have available. In addition, even more attention is given to both human and animal lives, because we have all experienced those images and those difficulties and today we are also intervening in this regard. We also give a very important signal regarding phenomena that make suspect the activity of certain people who may gain from the fact that there are fires, because they are called as volunteers. Also with regard to this aspect, the decree gives an important signal, because it increases the penalties for anyone who should ever have a glimmer of madness and set fire to some forest, making it even more inconvenient than it has ever been from the criminal point of view. All this in order to say also that we are working on new technologies, therefore on perspectives that for the future can allow us to intervene more punctually, predicting or in any case arriving on the spot more quickly. This will then go hand in hand with the measures of the budget law, in which there will be substantial interventions also from the point of view of the rural detachments of the fire department. For the work done in the Commission, I would like to thank President Moronese, the rapporteurs, with whom there has been great harmony, and of course undersecretary Caterina Bini, who had the difficult task of having to agree on the different competences that are to be consolidated in the decree-law under consideration. The Commission has had the great merit of being able to provide more resources and to extend important rankings for the recruitment of firefighters, so that we can give more men, but also for the means we have talked about, for which there are 40 million. The Commission has also given an additional incentive to be able to have more men: I am referring to open rankings for faster recruitment of firefighters, as well as to the reduction of courses for foreman, an important objective that allows us to have even better expertise to deal with these difficulties. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u103	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what has been established in the course of the examination in the referent, declares impossible, pursuant to article 97, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, for extraneousness of matter with respect to the contents of the decree-law, the amendments 2.14, 2.15, 2.0.2, 2.0.3, 2.0.6, 2.0.8, 5.0.1, 5.0.3, 5.0.4, 5.0.5, 6.18, limited to the reference to articles 544-a and 544-b of the penal code, as well as the amendments 6.33, 6.34, 6.35, 6.36, 6.37, 6.40, 6.41, 6.42, 6.43, 6.0.1, 6.0.2, limited to paragraph 2, 6.0.3, 7.6, 7.8, 7.0.7, 7.0.9 and 8.2. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u104	Mr President, the amendments tabled to Article 1 are different, but I intend to focus in particular on Amendment 1.1, because it contains the approach that we would have liked to have taken to this decree-law with our contribution. Amendment 1.1, which proposes to amend many parts of Article 1 of the Decree-Law, is an attempt to make a qualitative leap in the approach of intervention and therefore also to give a strong legitimacy to the fact that it intervened by decree-law in the fight against forest fires. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am thinking about what happened this summer, but we must not bind the measure solely to the seriousness of the situation that occurred last summer. We should equip ourselves more and more with a view to a change in the phenomenon. We have regularly had a series of fires every summer; in some summers there have been more and in others less, but today we should understand that the story of forest fires is closely linked to climate change, so we risk finding ourselves, every new summer, in an increasingly serious situation. The strengthening of coordination and technological updating is fine, but we would finally have expected in this decree - this is the purpose of amendment 1.1 - that the Civil Protection Department had a strong role to play in coordinating all forecasting, prevention and active action. Our problem, in fact, is not only, as we have in the provision in Article 1, that of providing - although it is necessary, for goodness sake - for the reconnaissance and evaluation of technologies and means and for their implementation, but we need, in order to face this phase that unfortunately will accompany us more and more, of a qualitative leap. This, in my opinion, would have been done if the Civil Protection Department had played a greater role, in particular in coordinating active and forward-looking action. That is the issue and it is not just a general coordination problem for reconnaissance. It had to play a strong national role in a real strategic prevention plan: this is the approach that we should have taken in this decree. The decree-law, on the other hand, intervenes once again in an emergency situation, even if we would actually have expected that there would also be refreshments for those who have been affected and have suffered damage. The decree-law also carries out an important operation on some parts, but it is not that qualitative leap that is absolutely necessary today to deal with the situation. The second amendment that I would like to make, Mr President, is 1.52 (text 2), to which the rapporteur, Mr Briziarelli, referred just now in his reply. Let's understand once and for all: here no one wanted to do operations to try, through another road, to stop and prevent the hunt. Is it true or not that when there is a particularly serious situation, as already provided for in Article 19 of Law 157 of 1992, action can be taken to stop hunting? Hunting, dear Senator Briziarelli, is an activity that is well classified as playful-recreational. The control of the population, the management of fauna are something else. You have continued to invent the story of the invasion of wild boars, even with a limitation that concerned neighboring municipalities, and that has nothing to do with wildlife management and control... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u105	Thank you, Senator De Petris. As I anticipated, today I am forced to be rigid in the timing assignment. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u106	Mr President, I would like to call for the withdrawal of amendments 1.1, 1.17, 1.23, 1.24, 1.25, 1.29, 1.32 and 1.45. I am in favour of amendments 1.4, 1.100 (text 2), 1.6 (text 3), 1.16, 1.18 (text 2), 1.34, 1.19 (text 3), 1.48, 1.49, 1.51 and 1.53 (text 2). On Amendment 1.52 (text 2) the rapporteurs refer back to the House. I am opposed to the remaining amendments. I am in favour of the G1,200 agenda, with the reformulation that I have accepted, as well as the G1.1 and G1,400 agendas. Finally, I am opposed to Amendment 1.0.1 and I am in favour of Amendments 1.0.2 (text 3) and 1.0.3 (text 6).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u107	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's view, with the exception of amendment 1.0.1, on which the Government refers to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u110	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, we withdraw Amendment 1.32.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u111	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.2 and 1.3 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.4, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,100 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.9, 1.10, 1.11 and 1.12 have been withdrawn. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senators La Pietra e Nastri, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.14 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.16, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.17 is therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.18 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.22 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.25, tabled by Senators Nugnes and La Mura, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.26, 1.27 and 1.28 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.29.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u114	AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to read the amendment and then return to the will of this House. The Civil Protection Department of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers provides, on a three-year basis, for reconnaissance and evaluation of the need to upgrade fresh water supply basins. We know the problem that often the use of brackish water, thanks to the Canadair, causes the land, which is also burned by salt.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u115	Senator Auddino, if you have made a reformulation, let us put this amendment aside. AUDDINO (M5S). Mr. President, may I speak? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If we put him down, he'll talk when we discuss it. If you can, put the rewording in writing.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u118	MORONESE (Mist). Mr President, I would like to ask you to check why it appears to me that the Commission's 5th opinion on this amending proposal is contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u119	Mr Auddino is making a rewording of amendment 1.29, which is why, since I do not think you have read the text, I have invited my colleague to put the rewording in writing. I therefore have the provision pending the availability of the text. Amendments 1.30, 1.32 and 1.33 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.34, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.36 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.45.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u122	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u123	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.19 (text 3) on which the 5th Commission has expressed a favourable opinion subject to rewording. I would ask the rapporteurs whether they accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u124	Mr President, we are in favour of the text proposed by the Commission. I would ask if there is any further rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u125	Speaker, explain to us better.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u126	BRIZIARELLI, rapporteur. The amendment adopted in the reworded text, identical to many others, had already been accepted on the basis of the indication of the budget Commission. Therefore, if we, the rapporteurs, like the proposers of the amendments, must reiterate that we accept all the rewordings proposed by the Budget Commission, we can also do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's what I was asking you. BRIZIARELLI, rapporteur. I would like to stress this point for the benefit of this House. Only in this decree-law there are no texts 3, 4, 5 or 6 of the proposers, but all the rewordings are of the rapporteurs. So, together with my colleague Mr Quarto - let us say now - all the rewordings are accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u127	Well, that's very clear. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.19 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.47 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G1.400. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,48, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.49 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.51, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.52 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u130	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I invite all the senators to read Amendment 1.52 carefully (text 2), on which both the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government have returned to this House. I remember that we are talking about a very limited intervention that concerns the fact that the Regions in whose territories is declared the state of emergency pursuant to article 7, paragraph 1, letter c), of legislative decree 2 January 2018, n. 1, because of the spread and extent of the forest fires, with own measures arrange within fifteen days from the aforementioned declaration the prohibition of hunting in the municipalities concerned and neighboring ones, for at least one hunting season. I want to stress the measure because it is a very limited intervention and - I repeat - we are not talking about suspension of the control and the management of fauna, which are completely different measures that are not interrupted. I would like to remind everyone that we have had 15 million dead animals burned this summer and those who survived have obviously taken refuge in the surrounding areas. Therefore, in our view, the suspension of hunting becomes an indispensable element for those who really want to preserve biodiversity, the protection of fauna and to be able to rebuild the natural habitat. I therefore call on the senators to vote in favour of amendment 1.52 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u133	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I support Senator De Petris' invitation. Colleagues, we are approaching next week at the third reading of the constitutional amendment to include environmental and animal protection in Article 9 of the Constitution. If we want to be consistent and consistent with this change, as I think we were in previous readings, we must be consistent. We cannot return outside the Assembly the image of a fire and a forest where the animals flee, wounded, with the flames behind them, which are sifted by the hunters' rifles. That's not possible. [[Applause]] It is a matter of sending a coherent message to a cruelty that takes advantage of the weakness of a stunned and lost animal following the fire. It's pure cruelty. Senators, we have the possibility, beyond everything, to put an end to a question that I think concerns the sensitivity of each of us: a wounded animal that runs away with a fire behind it cannot be mowed. Hunting must be abolished. [[Applause]] There is a referendum on the subject. If the House does not become aware of this, the citizens have already collected signatures to provide and replace our irresponsibility and insensitivity, which show that this House is out of time, space and common sense. Mr President, I therefore support the invitation of Senator De Petris, hoping that this cruelty will end. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u134	Amendment 1.52 (text 2) suspends hunting for the entire hunting season if there is an emergency state statement; I want to say this because a debate is opening on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u137	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to endorse amendment 1.52 (text 2). I think it is an absolutely important measure, as Senator Perilli and Senator De Petris have pointed out.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u140	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, it is clear that Amendment 1.52 (text 2) has a strong reference to hunters. I say this because we have all seen, even in the previous speeches in general discussion and during the illustration phase, that we are always talking about the fires that occur in the summer season. But in summer you don't hunt: hunting, especially wild boar hunting, is done only in winter periods, from October to January. It follows that this is merely a preliminary amendment. [[Applause]] , which has nothing to do with wildlife. For this reason, we will vote strongly against it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u143	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, first of all, I would like to be able to endorse amendment 1.52 (text 2). I do not believe that this is in any way a preliminary amendment; it is an amendment of common sense which simply asks not to hunt in the vicinity of the territories where the state of emergency has been declared because it is hit by forest fires, which obviously create different problems against the fauna, including the fear of having to flee elsewhere, and in this way they become prey and victim of hunters. I am sorry for the irony of some of my fellow Members in this House who are not involved in this situation. We are not asking to upset the hunting season of the regions, but simply to have an eye on the territories affected by fires and the fauna of these territories that are the victims of them. [[Applause]] Making this fauna even more victim to hunters seems paradoxical to me. I therefore reiterate my request to be able to endorse this amendment and ask all senators of common sense to vote wisely against this amendment, which does not upset anything, is not ideological and is not a preliminary ruling. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u146	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to express my disagreement with this amendment, for a straightforward and concrete reason. The management, the protection and the control of fauna, everything that integrates the wildlife, is by law entrusted to the Regions, that in this country make the plan fauna, determine which are the species to protect, those that can be hunted, the periods, the modalities and the zones, including also the provisions relative to the areas crossed from the fire. From one part of the country to the other the realities are different, even the vegetal ones: in the Mediterranean scrub, after three years the vegetal and fauna conditions are restored to the original system, while in other areas of the country it is not so. This is why the legislator entrusted this task to the individual regions. It is therefore clear that to remove this competence from the regions in order to focus it in a unitary way with an automatism on a law of the State would also go against the real interests of protection of the fauna at the local level. I say these things, essentially repeating the same words that the Minister of Agriculture Patuanelli said about the problem of wildlife damage. [[Applause]] I believe that it is correct to call for consistency and to accept the invitation of Minister Patuanelli, who said that this is the subject of the regions, as it is right that it is, because then on the damage of that wildlife, the damage for which all the agricultural associations have expressed themselves on this amendment is the responsibility of the regions. I therefore believe that it is completely incorrect, almost cowardly, to go and make a fool of this kind to spread on the country an automatism that concretely goes against the interests of the farmers and, in second instance, cancels an important competence of the Regions. Maybe those in the Regions who do not have the opportunity to intervene are not interested, but we are for the diversification of the management of the fauna in our country because, as you, Mr President, you know very well, the fauna we have in the Province of Trento deserves different protection requirements compared to that of Sila. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u148	Senator Vitali, I assume you intend to intervene in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u149	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). No, Mr President, I rise to express the official position of the Forza Italia Group. The position in dissent, legitimate, is that of my colleague Giammanco. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. VITALI (FIBP-UDC). I represent the official position of the Group which will vote strongly against this amendment. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u150	Colleagues, Senator Vitali has said that he is speaking in a direction contrary to what has already been stated.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u151	[[Comments.]] Let me decide. Please, Senator Vitali. VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Giammanco's position, although absolutely legitimate, is not the official position of the Forza Italia Group, which will vote against amendment 1.52 (text 2). Let me have two evaluations. Firstly, we are asking ourselves whether this amendment, which deals with the issue of hunting, is not relevant to the issue of forest fires and therefore deserves other treatment and evaluation. [[Applause]] There have been referendums that have tried to abolish the hunt and have been rejected. Now we learn that signatures have been collected for yet another referendum and it will be the next referendum campaign that will make the difference. I would also like to reply to Mr Perilli, explaining that our attitude is absolutely not in contradiction with the convinced vote that we have voted for the protection of the environment in the Constitution, on the contrary, it makes us believe that the battle we have fought against the incorporation of the defence of animals in the Constitution has not been in vain, obviously being a crowbar through which someone wanted to include this rule. I repeat that the issue of hunting is not related to that of forest fires and that there is a specific competence of the regions, besides there is no valid reason for accepting the amendment, starting with the sentimental narrative that has been given. In conclusion, I would like to announce that our Group will vote strongly against amendment 1.52 (text 2). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u154	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to be able to accept this amendment and I would also ask my fellow Members to vote in favour for a reason... PRESIDENT. Senator, please. NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I am not making an explanation of vote, but I can speak on the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u155	Unfortunately, I have to say that our Rules of Procedure deserve careful reading. [[Applause]] If you read it carefully, you understand that you cannot intervene. I say it without irony and first of all to myself, because I also sometimes get confused. I would therefore have to take your word for it. [[Comments.]] Please, terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u156	I repeat that I support the amendment and call for a vote in favour because habitat protection is also crucial to health...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u157	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.52 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.53 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u160	BRIZIARELLI, rapporteur. Mr President, I rise to say that there is a material error. The Budget Commission shall report on 15 February and not 28 February. So we have to vote in the wording that the Budget Commission asked for, on 15 February 2022, different from what is printed in the dossier.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u161	The rapporteur, always try to be as clear as possible, for us who do not know. However, it is extended to February 15, 2022, it is already so in the text that I have. I have the right text. What's the mistake, Senator Briziarelli? Not only does the Rules of Procedure deserve careful reading, but also the texts of the amendments. Please, what's the mistake?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u162	So, the President points out to me that it was corrected on February 15th.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u163	It's already correct, so tamquam doesn't exist. We canceled this part of the surgery. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.53 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.29, which was previously put aside. Senator Auddino, have you been able to write the rewording and deliver the text to the speakers?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u164	Mr President, I apologize, but I can't hear you. I can't physically listen to and follow the talks with the Presidency, because I can't hear them here.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u165	Senator Auddino, calmly tell us how you would like to reformulate Amendment 1.29.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u166	AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, the amendment remains the same for me and should not be reworded. I therefore request the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u167	All right, you can see there was a real difficulty in understanding. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Auddino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u170	SIBILIA, State Secretary for the Interior. Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G1,200, the rapporteur asked for a rewording, to which we were united. The opinion is therefore in favour of rewording the Government's commitment to assessing whether it is appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u171	Senator Candiani, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u172	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u173	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1,200 (text 2), G1.1 and G1,400 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u176	BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I am announcing the withdrawal of amendment 1.0.1. Although the Government has returned to the Assembly, I note the unfavourable vote that affected the previous amendment 1.52. The subject is very similar and here even in the original version the extension of the hunting ban was two years in the regions concerned. Amendment 1.52 was the result of a compromise work and also of a lowering of the aim, by mutualizing the venatory language, in the expectations of those who wanted to protect animals. We give up amendment 1.0.1, but it remains in the Minutes that these were the original intentions and that, unfortunately, the attempt that we have made together with many of our colleagues in the Commission with amendment 1.52 has not been achieved this time. I declare the withdrawal of amendment 1.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u177	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.0.2 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.0.3 (text 6), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.5 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u180	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, being able to follow you is quite complicated. Was the agenda G1,400 put to the vote or not? He didn't say it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorry, I got distracted. I'd like to give Senator Nugnes the floor to understand the reason for the complaint.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u183	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 2.5, 2.12 and 2.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u186	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to put the question to you again. Was the agenda G1,400, already Amendment 1,47, put to the vote or was it accepted? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's been accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u189	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I also withdraw Amendment 2.6, on behalf of Senator Papatheu. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u190	I call on you to withdraw Amendments 2.3, 2.4, 2.7, 2.8, 2.10, 2.11 and 2.16, or I am against them. I am in favour of accepting the G2.1 agenda, provided that the following words are added to the final line of the commitment:
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u191	Senator Moronese, do you accept this reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u192	Yes, I accept the rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u193	I am in favour of the adoption of the G2200 agenda. I therefore support the G2,300 agenda, but we call for it to be put to the vote, with a rewording that we are waiting for. I am opposed to the adoption of the G2.201 agenda and to the adoption of the G2.202 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u194	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. On the agenda, Mr G2,300, we call for the commitment to be reworded, expressing the word 'in the context of the agenda'.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u195	Amendment 2.1 has been withdrawn and transformed into the G2200 agenda. Amendment 2.2 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u198	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 2.3 at my first signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u201	BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 2.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u204	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 2.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u205	We'll take it. Amendments 2.5 and 2.6 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u208	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to take the G2201 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u209	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u211	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 2.8 and turn it into the G2.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u212	However, there remain identical amendments 2.10 and 2.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u215	MORONESE (Mist). Mr President, I would ask you to sign the G2.8 agenda and withdraw Amendment 2.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u216	Senator Nugnes, of the four identical amendments, only amendment 2.10 remains in its first signature. Do you keep it?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u217	Mr President, I would like to withdraw it and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u218	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u220	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to subscribe to the agendas for G2,200 and G2,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u221	Amendments 2.12 and 2.13 have been withdrawn. Amendments 2.14 and 2.15 cannot be proposed. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.16 tabled by Senator Berutti, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,17 to 2,23 are withdrawn. I would ask the rapporteur to comment on the agendas resulting from the transformation of amendments 2.8, 2.9 and 2.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u222	Mr President, we expressly and in agreement with the Government that the agenda for G2,300, although with a favourable opinion from both the rapporteurs and the Government, should be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u223	Senator Briziarelli, we are with the identical amendments 2.8, 2.9 and 2.10, which have become agendas, that if they were accepted, we should not vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u224	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u226	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). I would like to speak on the agenda for G2.202, because we particularly want to stress that the attention and sensitivity to animals belongs to us. This is an agenda that belongs to us, at a time when there is a system of territorial logic, proper protection and proper attention also to the competences of those who have to decide what. In this case, we undertake the Government to assess the possibility of authorising the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence to acquire operational means for the transport and rescue of animals involved in forest fires.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u227	I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u228	Mr President, I am in favour of the agenda, if they are identical to the agenda for G2.202, on which I have already given the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u229	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u230	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.8, G2.202, G2.1 (text 2) and G2.200 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on the G2300 (text 2) agenda, tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.201, presented by Senator Abbot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.1 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.201. Amendments 2.0.2, 2.0.3, 2.0.6 and 2.0.8 are unacceptable. Amendments 2.0.4 and 2.0.5 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u231	Mr President, I am against Amendments 3,100 (text 2)/1 and 3,100 (text 2)/2. I am in favour of Amendments 3,100 (text 2)/3, 3,100 (text 2) and 3,14. I call for the withdrawal of amendments 3,100 (text 2/4, 3.16 (text 2), 3.1, 3.3, 3.9, 3.4, 3.12, 3.13, 3.17, 3.18, 3.19, 3.20, 3.22 and 3.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u232	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u233	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u235	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 3.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u236	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u238	THE ABBATE (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 3.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u239	I take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100 (text 2)/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u240	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u241	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u242	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I asked you to explain the amendments to explain the ratio. I will now make an explanation of vote, which will also come for the amendments to follow. This is a very delicate point, so please be very careful. The rapporteurs know this because we have discussed it a lot in the Commission. In fact, I have to say that, at some point, even in the Commission, despite the fact that a text containing the deadline of 60 days had previously been retabled, at the last sitting he had all reasoned together to try to insist on the ten days. We are not talking about holidays, but about the time that is indicated as necessary to make the so-called detection and perimeter of the areas and overhangs run by the fire. The point is that unfortunately, to my great dismay and dismay, the Government has not really wanted to meet the wishes of almost the entire Commission. A further rewording has been presented by the rapporteurs, which brings the time to 45 days: it was sixty days before and then there was a sub-amendment that brings them to 45 days. As everyone who is an expert on the subject knows, and also the rapporteur, Fourthly, you know what we're talking about. It'll take two or three days. Today - we are not talking about a hundred years ago - all the surveys can be done very well in two or three days. Instead, we insist on asking for a longer time, but the thing that is frankly unacceptable to me is that we can also agree to a longer time, but if the prohibitions from Article 10 come into force immediately, even on a provisional basis. Instead, after a longer time, the forty-five days, we refer once again to the fact that they must be transmitted digitally by 1 April and the rules provided for in Article 10 enter into force only after publication. Colleagues, you understand what this means. By doing the accounts, the fires usually develop in June, July and August, then we put, according to the latest version, forty-five days to make the surveys, then by the first April we transmit the data, we have to wait for the Regions to publish and we are in the new season of the fires. So we have lost a year again, without having been ready because it is essential to have this data because then the substitute powers of the Municipalities (I say this also to the rapporteur) are referred to regional laws. We are making fun of ourselves, because the big risk is that many months go by and the rules and prohibitions provided for in Article 10 come into force as they say. Colleagues, understand what it means in Italy to have months and months in which there is no certainty about the change of destination of use and therefore you can do and you can continue to do. So I really invite the government to think. Given that, among other things, the competence to make the surveys is of the Forest Command of the Carabinieri, frankly I do not really understand why - I say it clearly - the Ministry of Defence has so stubbornly opposed first the ten days and then also the fact that, while taking into account the forty-five days, at least came into force, on a totally provisional basis, as always happens, until the definitive publication, the rules and prohibitions provided for in Article 10. So our - and I will not repeat the explanation of vote - will be a vote in favour of Amendments 3,100 (text 2)/1 and 3,100 (text 2)/4. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u245	FOURTH, Rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to point out something about what Senator De Petris said. In addition to the improvement from sixty to forty-five days, it is not negligible the addition of the words "no later than 1 April" and I would like to stress that. I shared the spirit of Senator De Petris' amendment and I was particularly keen on it, otherwise I would not have tabled one. I would like to stress that it is not that we take uncritically what the Government tells us and tells us, but we have had a rather dense interlocation with the Ministry of Defence, on which depend the Carabinieri of the command forest, environmental and agri-food units (Cufa). In this speech I asked and demanded the reasons. They have told us that they are linked to the lack of staff and the possibility of developing - as has happened this year - many fires, dozens and dozens of fires in the same area, so it is difficult to perimeter with the current workforce. I wanted to point out that there was a close intercourse.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u246	There's been a conversation, it's pretty clear. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.100 (text 2)/1, tabled by Senators De Petris and Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.100 (text 2/2), tabled by Senators De Petris and Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100 (text 2)/3.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u247	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u249	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, what is the point? There is no staff, and we are going to extend by 35 days the assessment of the extent of the fires in the affected areas. This means that no bans are placed immediately; therefore, the risk - as it is in fact - of changing land use can also be taken. It is clear that there will be more fires, and the answer the government gives is that we are going to expand the time for verification when, instead, we should create a task force to resolve the issue. I don't know if you know. I fully agree with the rapporteur, Mr Quarto, who is an expert on this matter. I myself deal with these issues and I know very well that the emphasis can be made very quickly. I wonder, then, why Parliament cannot express itself so that we can create a group, a task force that can intervene in the fires. We are creating unimaginable damage, ladies and gentlemen, which is why I shall vote against this amendment because it is absolutely improbable for all the commitments we are taking at national and international level. We're going to Glasgow for Cop26 on pindar flights, and here we can't put together a working group. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u250	Please allow my colleague to speak correctly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u251	THE MURA (Mixed). A working group that can intervene on this front. Then let's have a chat: blah, blah, blah, blah. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u252	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Senator La Mura, I suspect you have spoken on Amendment 3,100 (text 2) and not on the 3,100 (text 2)/3. In fact, the amendment that we are preparing to vote does not increase, but reduces the time. It says: " (a) replace the words: "60 days" by the following: "45 days" by "45 days." [[Comments.]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100 (text 2)/3 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 3,100 (text 2)/4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u253	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u254	You have the right to do so. I remember the session ends at 8:00.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u255	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I know that, but this is a very sensitive point. The amendment from sixty to forty-five days has been approved. Once again, I invite everyone to reflect. The amendment confirms the forty-five days, but without prejudice to the application of the prohibitions at least on a provisional basis. You understand well that, especially for the change of destination of use, with such extended times, the transmission by 1 April is too distant. So the entry into force of the prohibitions, even provisionally, until publication, is a way of protecting ourselves, otherwise we do not protect anything. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u256	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.100 (text 2)/4, tabled by Senators De Petris and Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100 (text 2), on which I have a doubt. The amendment tabled by the Commission is identical to Amendment 3.16 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u259	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I had tabled another wording of Amendment 3.16 and I do not know why the text is identical to that of the rapporteur. The amendment has already been withdrawn in the Commission because it was not my rewording. So it's obviously withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u260	It's obviously not a proper word. Otherwise we would have had a favourable opinion on Amendment 3,100, the rapporteur did not tell me that he was withdrawn, but that the opinion was against it. In my file, like yours, the same text was favourable and contrary. We have now clarified ourselves; Amendment 3.16 (text 2) no longer exists. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100 (amendment text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.16 (text 2) has been withdrawn. Amendment 3.1 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 3.100 (text 2). Amendments 3.6 to 3.9 have been withdrawn. Amendment 3.4 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 3.100 (text 2 amended). Amendments 3.5, 3.10 and 3.11 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Abate and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.13 tabled by Senator Abate and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 3.14 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since Senator Moronese does not accept the call for withdrawal, I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,17 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.18 has been withdrawn. Senator Nugnes, on Amendment 3.19, an invitation to withdraw was made otherwise the opinion was opposed. You're gonna pick it up?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u261	Mr President, do not withdraw it and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u262	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u263	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I would also like to speak on Amendment 3.19 on Amendment 3.22 which is identical to Amendment 3.23. I would like to ask the House for a moment of reflection. Italy holds in fact the enviable record of having recorded the maximum number of fires in 2021 - we have overclassed our own record of 2017 - and its significant damages are huge: this is reported in the report Fires and desertifications. 158,000 hectares of woods and forests have been smoked, turning into hot traps for several million wild animals. We must realise that maintenance and prevention are essential to getting us out of these problems. In order to limit these phenomena, it may be useful not to give Community funding to non-fulfilling municipalities anymore; because it is the vile money that moves the world, I believe that this is a sure lever to secure us from failings. I therefore call on all those who want to avoid fires to vote in favour of these two amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u264	Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.19 tabled by Senators Nugnes and La Mura, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u265	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u267	MORONESE (Mist). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 3.20.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u268	We take note of that. Amendment 3.21 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.22, tabled by Senators Nugnes and La Mura, identical to Amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Moronese and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented, and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u269	Mr President, I call for Amendments 4.1, 4.2, 4.5, 4.7 and 4.9 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them. I am in favour of Amendments 4.6, 4.3, 4.8 and 4.10. I call on you to withdraw amendment 4.20, otherwise the opinion will be against it. The opinion supports amendments 4.23 (text 2), 4.24 and 4.25 (text 2). I call for amendments 4.30, 4.31 and 4.32, otherwise the opinion will be against. The opinion supports amendments 4.33, 4.34, 4.35, 4.36, 4.37 (text 2), 4.39 and 4.40 (text 2). The opinion is in favour of the G4200 agenda, provided that the proposal for a rewording to commit the Government to assess whether it is appropriate to do so is accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u270	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u271	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u273	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I welcome the rapporteur's invitation and withdraw Amendment 4.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u274	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u276	TEXTOR (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to the G4200 agenda and, if possible, to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u277	When the time comes, Senator. As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.4 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.6, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.3 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.7 is therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.8, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.9 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.10, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4,12 to 4,19 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.20, tabled by Senators La Pietra and Nastri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.21 and 4.22 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.23 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.24, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.25 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.28 and 4.29 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u278	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u279	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u280	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 4.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u281	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.31, tabled by Senator Nastri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.32, tabled by Senator Nastri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.33, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.38 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,39.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u282	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u284	BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of Commission amendment 4.39, which we would like to stress. It is a matter of allowing those who oppose the incendiary phenomenon - at the Arm of the Carabinieri in this case - to have resources in the next National Operational Plan 2021-2027, to invest in those technological tools (radars, infrared cameras and drones) that - from our point of view - can affect in a very impacting way in identifying the trigger points and hopefully in identifying those responsible, whenever the fires have arson nature. Radar flow rates extend to 50 kilometres It is an instrument that, beyond the necessary and excellent measures that we are taking in the whole of the fire prevention measure, can have a truly decisive impact in the effective contrast and, hopefully, in the punishment of those responsible, through identification through the use of this technology. I would like to thank the speakers and the representative of the Government for giving a favourable opinion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u285	I join your wish, Senator Buccarella, although sometimes an amendment is not enough to decide on the necessary resources. Unfortunately, this does not happen automatically. That is why your speech and my speech are a wish for this to happen. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.39, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.40 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.41 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the agenda for Mr G4 200.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u286	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u288	TEXTOR (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we also accept the rewording because the agenda addresses the very important issue of the calamitous events that have taken place in previous years. I am referring to the Vaia storm, which has hit many regions of the Alpine arch, precisely going to destroy entire woods and above all is still in progress the collection of woody material both on the ground and standing. In addition to the damage caused by the storm to the woods, so much timber was not harvested and this led to the event of the Bostrico. The parasite harms all the woods and, therefore, the intention of the bill is to commit the Government to provide measures to allow public and private owners, conductors or holders in any way of forests threatened by phytosanitary infestations for a limited period of at least seven years, to carry out appropriate emergency prevention operations, including killing or removal of plants on site, and to consider appropriate tools to accelerate and simplify procedures in order to ensure the preparation of the strictly indispensable forestry yards. If the Vaia storm did damage, the Bostrik within three years could do twice as much damage as the storm itself did.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u289	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4200 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendments 4.0.1 to 4.0.5 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u290	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal of amendments 5.2, 5.3, 5.12, 5.21, 5.22, 5.33, 5.34, 5.38, 5.42, 5.45, 5.48, 5.50, 5.53, 5.56, 5.57, 5.64, 5.65, 5.69 and 5.71, otherwise the opinion is against. On amendments 5.4, 5.1 (text 2), 5.9 (text 2), 5.11, 5.13 (text 2), 5.18 (text 3), 5.25, 5.26 (text 2), 5.29 (text 2), 5.54, 5.37 (text 3), 5.70 and 5.72 I voted in favour. On the agenda, Mr G5.1, we are back in the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u291	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u292	I inform you that Amendment 5.2 has been withdrawn. It appreciates the circumstances, considering also the inevitable and numerous speeches on topics not included on the agenda, unless we give up - in which case we could continue the examination of the measure for another twenty minutes, but without exhausting it - it seems more appropriate to postpone the examination of the measure to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u293	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u294	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u295	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 October 2021 17 stabbed British MEP David Amess in a church while he was holding a meeting in his constituency in Leigh-on-Sea, Essex. His killer is Ali Harbi Ali. David Amess was pro life, pro family, against abortion, against euthanasia, against all that is gender indoctrination. I would like to use the words of Archbishop Kevin Hale, who was a childhood friend of his, to remind this House. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u296	Senator Pillon, as your speech deserves more attention, please stop - I will make it up to you - because I must invite anyone who wishes to leave the Chamber to do so, to allow you to speak for those who wish to hear it. Please, Senator Pillon, pick it up.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u297	Our colleague, ladies and gentlemen, was a British Member who was killed for his commitment. I would like to use the words of Kevin Hale, his friend and pastor, who said: His faith was very strong, thanks also to a good education in a Catholic school in London where I also studied. He was a defender of life in all its forms. In Parliament, when there was a debate on issues such as abortion or assisted suicide, it was very clear and not willing to compromise. It is not to be ruled out that his frankness has prejudiced his taking on governmental roles. In a sense, it can be said that his being a believer did not allow him to "make a career." But this was him: a good Catholic and an exceptional man. David was fearless. In fact, he never accepted special security measures to protect his person because he loved to be accessible to all. Nobody got down on their knees for David Ames. However, today in this Chamber we entrust him to the love of Almighty God, who will certainly not fail to give him the reward of the good and faithful servant. Allow me to make one final remark. This morning, before entering this Chamber, I prayed that from heaven he would intercede for our homeland, Italy, for today's important vote and it seems to me that his intercession was powerful.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u298	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u299	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u300	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of the House and the public a serious situation which is taking place at this time in my city, Sciacca, which concerns the future of a wonderful voluntary association for disabled people called Agape ONLUS, which has been operating for years with a disabled centre located within the John Paul II hospital complex. A few days ago, in fact, the association received a formal letter with which the provincial health company (ASP) of Agrigento communicated the cessation with immediate effect of the lease relationship that lasted for twenty years. This act has thrown into dismay the families of the disabled gathered in the Agape association, who fear to see lost the great work done in the last twenty years, which has allowed considerable social and health improvements to users and a relief of the pressure on the family themselves. In fact, important activities of socialization, inclusion and integration are carried out in the local area, such as cooking workshops, ceramics, social theatre, gardening, music and didactics. All these activities are carried out with dedication and passion thanks to the commitment of the families of volunteers and generous supporters, allowing to compensate for the total absence on the territory of socio-sanitary structures with day centres for disabled people. I would also add that Agrigento's ASP, in the same formal letter, requested the release of the premises and the removal of the furniture within and no later than five days: a mode that is commented on by itself. I would also like to point out that, as provided for in the contract, the Agape association is required to pay the relative fee of all users related to the use of the premises, i.e. electricity, gas, water, telephone and cleaning. I considered it useful and appropriate to bring this delicate affair to the Chamber for two main reasons: first of all to wish for an urgent interest of the competent bodies, namely Sicilian Region and ASP of Agrigento, in order to arrive at a rethink of the decision or at least to the opening of a joint table to agree a positive solution, also to avoid the abrupt interruption of the activities, with heavy repercussions on the fragile users. The second reason is that this case is a clear demonstration of how the world of volunteering, especially the local one, is all too often still considered as a Cinderella, almost a minor presence in the territory. Nothing more wrong: voluntary associations play a key role in social cohesion and in the care of the most vulnerable, and in many cases they are also aware of the lack of adequate public social and health services. To them, therefore, must go our most heartfelt thanks and above all the concrete commitment of the institutions at every level, so that no situations such as the one that is happening to the Agape association of Sciacca, towards which I continue to renew my public appeal to a rethinking by the competent local health authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u301	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u302	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u303	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, today my speech is intended to be a heartfelt appeal to Minister Cartabia, who is concerned with institutional violence and who, as a mother, as well as as a legislator, senator of the Republic, leaves me dismayed. I am referring to all those desperate moms who often denounce their abusive partner and years of continuous domestic and assisted violence, of which punctually, because of the legal distortions that entangle themselves in the meanders of justice between civil and criminal proceedings, then pay the consequences the children and the women who denounce, sinking into the most total despair. They are women who, however, in a heroic way do not give up, making the spirit of motherhood prevail, that is, the only reason to be, that are their children. [[Applause]] I don't quit either. I'm next to those women, those heroines who want to trust institutions. We owe it to them and their little ones. It is our duty, as well as responsibility and seriousness, to prevent children from being cut off from their mothers in a cruel way by the Forces of Order - let's talk about the crime - that break through the door of the house and lift them out of their mother's arms. Once transferred to the responsible structures, begins the sharp vortex of social workers who stand as champions of atrocious justice, which aims to alienate the maternal figure. Therefore it emerges from some narratives that the six-year-old decides not to see the mother, in that only hour of that one day a week and it happens that the child is not present in the next school and that in all this the Forces of the order cannot verify the correctness and transparency of the management of certain reception centers, following the signal of that desperate mother, who is bursting the heart, waiting to know how his son is. President, my blood boils down to hear so many narratives and stories of this kind, of grieved moms. I just can't stand it anymore. I therefore conclude with the wish for a change in Italian justice on this front. At the same time, I ask the Minister to give a concrete and effective signal of protection to women who denounce, to women who are afraid of denouncing, to all those mothers. We owe it to all women killed (54 feminicides to date), to orphans of feminicide, to family and friends. In view of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, next 25 November, I ask you not to make it a boring and offensive day for so many victims and that this is not an opportunity to demonstrate and show with beautiful words the skills and knowledge of the phenomenon. Minister Cartabia, facts are pressing. I invite you to make a inspection visit to the courts of minors in Rome, as indicated by the Committee of Inquiry which I have the honour to preside over. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u304	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u305	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u306	ANGRISANI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, we know very well that contractual dumping is a very serious phenomenon which harms workers, the economic system and fair competition and which is unfortunately constantly expanding. The CNEL has found that in recent years we have reached 985 contracts: an unacceptable situation, even more absurd if to stimulate it is the public administration. Specifically, I want to talk to you about what is happening in accredited rehabilitation, i.e. in centres representing public health. We're talking about 984 centers with almost 50,000 people. There are at least ten contracts in this sector, of which only one is the leading contract, which guarantees workers and services - the AIOP contract - which, however, is applied by about 50% of rehabilitation centres. The others apply less representative contracts, which allow workers to pay up to almost half, with more hours of work. And this is even more absurd if we think that these centres, which do not adopt the AIOP contract, do not cost less, but receive the same rates from their respective regional health services. All this means exploitation of workers, unfair competition, worse health services and, therefore, greater gains on the shoulders of operators. Those who apply this type of contract, with the features I have shown, manage to obtain additional profits up to 22 percent. This is public money which should serve the workers' pay and, consequently, the quality of the health service. Unfortunately, that is not the case. This means that companies that apply the leading contract are penalised in an unsustainable way. I've written to a lot of rehabilitation centers to report and solve this problem. The national unions in many regions and the centres applying the AIOP contract, except those on top of it, would like to overcome this situation. The only way to do this is to require the drawing up of differentiated tariffs, to correspond to the centres accredited according to the national collective agreement. Some regions, including Campania and Lazio, have tried to adopt differentiated tariffs, but it is not possible because of a legislative blockade that goes back thirty years. Suffice it to say that, in general, there were 225 contracts in Italy and now there are more than a thousand. It is only by overcoming the constraints imposed by this old rule, therefore, that the shameful phenomenon of contractual dumping in health can be effectively countered by defining the general criteria for the welfare function and the determination of their remuneration. I am therefore sure that you will be able to grasp the importance of this phenomenon which is damaging to operators in this sector and which has a negative impact not only on pay but also on workers' rights and social security. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u307	I demand to speak about the calamity in Catania and Catanese.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u308	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u309	Senator Drago, I join the reasons for your intervention. Tomorrow, moreover, I will also be in Catania for a mourning that struck the former president of Lombardy computer science, Giovanni Catanzaro, whom I remember with affection. Drago (FdI). Mr President, this morning we spent a minute of silence on the events that have just taken place on eastern Sicily, particularly in Catania and its Province. I would like to speak not only by expressing my solidarity, but - as I always like to do - also by being a little proactive. Solidarity in this difficult moment certainly goes to the mayors of the Municipalities in which mourning occurred, and therefore mayor of Scordia, mayor of Gravina of Catania Massimiliano Giammusso and mayor Salvo Pogliese of the metropolitan city of Catania. I challenge anyone, in a situation so unpredictable or at least difficult to deal with, to have immediately the ability to resolve, that however it is manifesting itself in the team work. However, I would also like to highlight one particular point. We need a framework law for intervention, as requested by President Musumeci a few hours ago. The President of the Region did not express himself in these terms. But, if we want to intervene, for Sicily but in reality for the whole of the national territory, we have to prepare a regulation that serves precisely as a reference in emergency cases. In the case of Catania I point out that we have the volcano Etna. You may wonder what relationship there is. The relationship is very close. I don't know if you've ever seen volcanic ash, which is very thin. In the previous months it has been in the trap, gutters and everywhere in the city and in the Province. It is true that the government has allocated funds, but they are absolutely not sufficient and it is not possible simply to make a spot intervention, temporary. Structured and structural action is needed from this point of view. At this moment I have learned that the House has been asked the question of trust in the infrastructure bill. Good. On that text, Brothers of Italy had tabled amendments, one in particular for the post earthquake reconstruction. In the Province of Catania there are nine municipalities that, in addition to the drama of the failure to rebuild the buildings, have now lived also that of the flood. In the next two days, 28 and 29 October, he even expects a hurricane. I therefore call for more attention from the Government. I conclude by asking, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, that the Government report to the Assembly on what it intends to do to deal with such situations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u310	Senator Drago, I will report your request for the government's hearing to the President of the Senate for the appropriate possibilities of understanding.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u311	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-371.ana.u312	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 28 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8 p.m.
