ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2401. The rapporteur, Senator Girotto, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Decree-Law No 130 of 27 September 2021 adopted by the Government in order to contain the effects of price increases in the electricity and natural gas sectors comes to the House after a thorough examination at 10 a.m. The Commission, which, since the beginning of its term of office, has always been attentive to the dynamics of the energy market and the consequent effects on users. In fact, I would like to recall the recent approval, on 22 July 2021, of a rather full-bodied resolution on the deal assigned in January 2020 on the rationalisation, transparency and cost structure of the electricity market and on the effects in bills for users (Act No 397). It has been a long time since we have been dealing with this issue in a structural way, particularly in recent months, when prices, after the profound descent of 2020, have seen a sharp rise in the rise caused by an abrupt acceleration of all the costs of raw materials, as a result of the difficulties in supply chains due to the pandemic and the high quotations of carbon dioxide emission permits, with variations that, within a few months, have projected the prices of raw materials decidedly towards historical maximums. The increase in the cost of energy has recently increased further, with regard to both electricity and gas. The large increases in wholesale energy prices have led to an increase in electricity tariffs of around 10% in the third quarter and about 30% in the fourth quarter, which would have been limited by government intervention (otherwise they would have been 20% and 40% respectively). These increases, the largest in the last 20 years, have led to a peak in the cost of electricity for consumers. The interventions adopted by the Government for a total of 3.5 billion euros, including the reduction of VAT on gas, have allowed not only to mitigate the effects of the price increases for electricity and natural gas for 29 million families, as well as 6 million non-domestic electric utilities, in a very large part micro and small enterprises, but also - and I would like to remind you - to completely neutralize the increase in prices for the owners of social bonuses, that is for the weak classes, for those in a difficult situation. In the electricity sector, the allocation, also for the fourth quarter 2021, of additional resources of 2 billion euros, has allowed the Authority to completely cancel the rates of the general system charges for all domestic and non-domestic customers for other uses, with power up to 16,5 kilowatts, and to confirm the level of the tariff components related to the general system charges, already practically halved in the third quarter 2021 for all other electric users. For the standard family, the cancellation of the system charges for the fourth quarter of 2021 had the effect of mitigating, by at least 12%, the total electricity expenditure, which allowed to offset in part the increase in the electricity price component. This context, while stressing the energy vulnerability of our country, which is more affected than other European countries by the change in commodity prices, with consequent risk of loss of competitiveness of our energy-intensive sectors and inflationary tensions intended to depress consumption, on the other hand shows how the increase of renewable sources, as foreseen by the recent climate package Fit for 55 and the green deal, can have an important beneficial effect on the country's economy. According to the analysis of Banca d'Italia, energy increases can lead to an average increase of less than 2% of total business costs in 2021. However, the impact will present strong heterogeneity between companies: for most companies the increase will be modest, but it could reach even three times the average value for those with a higher incidence of energy costs. The rise in the energy bill of businesses and households will have an impact on consumer inflation, which will continue to rise in the coming months, but hopefully should not extend to the medium term. I would like to reiterate that the impact of the increase in energy costs has been reduced thanks to the presence of numerous renewable energy plants in the electricity system (we have more than one million renewable energy plants), in particular for domestic and non-domestic users who have produced the energy they then consumed. In these respects, I believe it is urgent to overcome the current fossil, polluting and centralised energy model, ensuring real participation and fair competition between the various technologies operating in the electricity market. I would remind you that this condition is not yet fully fulfilled, because the lack of certain technical standards makes this market, in fact, still centralized and fueled mainly by fossil fuels. And that, ladies and gentlemen, few people have understood. I'm sorry to say, but very few people have figured that out. We all wanted to do more about this measure. There have been proposals for amendments in a limited but significant number, which could have helped to improve the text and, above all, to support in a structural way - not commercials, not sporadic - users and businesses: from the extension of the concessions relating to electricity tariffs granted to economically disadvantaged domestic customers, to the reduction of the VAT rate to 5% for additional types of users, to the interventions on general system charges, to the granting of guarantees to be allocated to the realization of energy communities, to the deduction on the realization of accumulations, to the exemption of the fee for the occupation of public land with cables and pipelines for the sellers of electricity and gas. Although we understand that at the moment the necessary resources are scarce or almost null, given the approaching opening of the budgetary session, we can only hope that the Government will take into account the importance of the proposed measures. Many of them really depend on the ecological transition, the protection of vulnerable people, the reduction of the country's energy dependence, the reduction of tensions on energy prices, the country's economic growth, research and technological innovation. Coming quickly to the specific content of the provision, I remember that article 1, paragraph 1, confers, also for the fourth trimester 2021, to the Cassa for the energy and environmental services (CSEA) the amount of 1,2 billion euros, destined to partial compensation of the general expenses of system for all the electric utilities, of which 700 million euros specifically destined to the support of the measures of incentive of renewable energies and the energy efficiency. These are the proceeds from the auctions of carbon dioxide emission allowances, while the additional 500 million are transferred to CSEA by 15 December 2021. According to paragraph 2, the Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and Environment (ARERA) shall cancel for the fourth quarter 2021 the rates for the general system charges applied to domestic and non-domestic low voltage users for other uses, with power up to 16,5 kilowatts. For this purpose, additional resources of EUR 800 million are transferred to CSEA by 15 December 2021. Article 2 (1) reduces the VAT rate applicable to the administration of methane gas for civil and industrial uses. Paragraph 2, in order to contain for the fourth quarter 2021 the effects of price increases in the gas sector, provides that ARERA will reduce for the same quarter the rates related to the general gas charges, up to the amount of 480 million euros. This amount shall be transferred to CSEA by 15 December 2021. Article 3 assigns ARERA the task of re-establishing for the quarter October-December 2021 the facilities for electricity tariffs recognised to economically disadvantaged domestic customers and in serious health conditions and the compensation of the expenditure on the supply of natural gas, currently provided for in favour of economically disadvantaged households, already entitled to the application of the preferential tariff for the supply of electricity. Article 4, paragraph 1, brings the repeal of the provisions of Annex 1 to the decree-law and of variegated content that, having no time, I limit myself to listing: avoidance of tobacco taxation, rationalization of accounting procedures, preliminary environmental assessment, administrative staff, higher technical institutes, public administration with recruitment and access and credits acquired by ITS. Article 4, paragraph 2, amends the procedure whereby the master's degree course in primary education sciences and the special pedagogy and didactics specialization course for educational support activities and school inclusion in children's school and primary school must be adapted to the novelties provided for in Article 12 of the standard for access to the specialization course. Paragraph 3 provides for a further extension to 30 November 2021, pending a decree, of the deadline for the application of a transitional regime for radiometric surveillance to avoid the risk of exposure of persons to abnormal levels of radioactivity and contamination of the environment. A few amendments were adopted in the course of the Commission's examination, and we will see them shortly. The Commission then approved amendments of a formal nature to the text of the Decree-Law by means of amending proposals 1,100, title. 1 and Coord. 1. I thank the offices of the 10th Commission for their valuable contribution and all its members, with whom we have carried out a constructive discussion, even in the various positions, which allowed the decree-law to come to this House today.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, I have asked to speak on this issue because I believe - and the report I have made has encouraged me in this opinion - that the problems relating to the overall increase in the effects of price increases both in the electricity sector and in natural gas need two elements for reflection. First of all, the government intervened in a timely manner when the warnings about the increase of both electricity and methane began to be received and allocated a number of resources and - it will be repeated - we also heard the President-in-Office of the Council on this point - with the budgetary manoeuvre. The measure, as the rapporteur has mentioned, puts on the plate, as regards the fourth quarter, 1.2 billion for the electric sector, 608 million euros for that relative to the consumption of natural gas and 450 million to strengthen the social bonus on the bills. What should, however, in my view, be a moment of reflection for Parliament is the fact that the overall rise in commodity prices and inflation are becoming variables that need to be understood. When, in fact, the first warnings began, it was probably thought that this was a contingent phenomenon; today, instead, we are wondering - there is the utmost attention from the Government, the European Union and, I believe, the entire international community - about the effects and the fact that they had to stabilize in some way. I introduce the subject because yesterday I listened with some attention to the debate on the events of the protests and the malaise that we feel within the country and in the population. We should probably question the reasons behind it. I wondered what people can do to protest simply about a public health tool such as the green pass or, if you prefer, as should rightly be called, the health certificate. I wondered if it is possible that this is the only reason that brings so much anger at a time when in the end the country, despite all the difficulties we know, has recovered, has faced the vaccination campaign, has solved a number of problems and has triggered a series of procedures, including the fact that financial flows from Europe are tangibly coming. And the answer I gave myself was that every day the citizens, beyond the work that the government does above all, but also the Parliament in the translation of the measures, go to make gasoline and I believe that today the uncertainty that is transmitted and that people warn on their shoulders is not only related to the fear of a new pandemic wave, of the closures and everything else, but to what they see in their pockets, in the face of an increase in prices that, beginning with those of the bills - a question dealt immediately by the Government with a decree - is now affecting a lot of sectors. It is yesterday's news that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken a series of initiatives precisely for the containment of the prices of goods of very first consumption (such as milk). I think that the opposition that I witnessed yesterday and which referred to questions relating to provax, no vax, pro green pass or no green pass should be analysed more thoroughly. Firstly, to understand that it obviously has different roots and is probably economic in nature, but secondly, because we have a duty to explain also what the Government is doing, which in this House, answering some questions, has confirmed the fact that we have the greatest attention on these issues, because there is not only the contingent problem of this increase in the price of fuel and raw materials, but there is the need for our country, naturally in the European context, to prepare and implement a whole series of structural instruments to avoid reckless increases in genres that I define - to understand ourselves - of first consumption, that is, what is normally done. We therefore have a duty to understand, on the one hand, but on the other hand we also have a duty to explain the fact that these actions are taking place at European level. It is not by chance that the path that must lead us to strategic autonomy has been repeated several times and forcefully, which means that if Europe - and with Europe Italy - depends on too many foreign countries for a whole series of supplies, it is clear that it is then having to fight with inflation on the one hand, but above all with this increase in prices, because it cannot govern the system. It is clear that important acts have been taken. For example, this has gone a little quietly, but the US announcements that duties will no longer be imposed in relation to international agreements are certainly an important fact, just as important are the actions being taken to allow diversification of raw material supplies. The rapporteur has mentioned one aspect that I agree with, to give an example of how we can react. For many families, the impact on electricity bills was limited due to the fact that they were supplied through alternative energy sources. With this reasoning I want to say that we must be aware that the actions and above all the resources that the Government allocates to the problem of electricity bills and methane gas are linked to contingent interventions, but the attention of the political forces must focus on the perception that the citizens have today and that, in my opinion, is deeply influenced by the increase in prices because every day, or almost, they make gasoline. This is what is going on and this aspect should not be overlooked. Secondly, it must be understood and explained what the Government (supported by almost all parliamentary forces) is doing at this stage with measures such as the one under consideration and with the initiatives taken by the relevant ministries. Thirdly, we must follow and explain with great care and strength and support the operation that the whole of Europe is doing to avoid a problem linked to inflation, price increases and more (i.e. copper, chips). Otherwise, we risk that the many efforts that we are making now are not perceived with due attention in the country, or perhaps turn into forms of protest that have a different target than the real one, which in my opinion is that of economic character and nature. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u8	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we have been witnessing the rise in the prices of many raw materials such as steel, copper, minerals such as magnesium, aluminium, oil, methane and also food raw materials such as wheat and cereals for a year now. The increase in prices is due to many causes, including - certainly - the recovery that timidly a year ago, after a few months of lockdown, the globalized world began to undertake. Today, families and companies are paying a very high price. The rise in gas and especially oil prices, after a slight fall a few weeks ago, still shows signs of growth. Expected that market analysts are right in saying that after the first semester of the new year prices will return to fall, it would still be a long winter. It is also clear that the growth in energy costs has a direct impact on all products (from raw materials for extraction to processed materials) but also on services. Someone said it was a perfect storm and conjunction. I would talk about addendi of simple events which, added up, have then given a total weight. I am referring first of all to the demand of the Asian countries, which have resumed their production activity at full speed a little before Europe, but also to the processes of transformation of the combustion systems of many steel mills, from coal to methane. I am thinking of the reduction in production of wind power plants in Northern Europe, due simply to climate aspects (there were no winds). I am also thinking of the reduction of methane extraction in Norway for simple maintenance operations that were carried out during the lockdown period. So there are many factors and various causes, which in an economic system like ours, which has become incontenibly energetic, have generated yet another heavy crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, almost fifty years have passed, but many of us will remember austerity, when the Council of Ministers, convened on 22 November 1973, will take several restrictive measures. On Sundays you rode around with your bike and I confess that as a kid I was also happy. The circulation of private motor vehicles and aircraft was prohibited, public lighting of the cities was reduced and the premises began to close early in the evening. It also involved the Suez Canal, which even a few months ago was blocked, although for a short period, adding another load on the problem of increasing the costs of raw materials that we are suffering today. It is clear that then there was no dependence on energy that we have today, but there continues to be the same dependence on raw materials that we then had on raw materials that we do not possess, if not for small quantities: I am referring specifically to methane and oil. With this measure, which seeks to contain the effects of rising prices, with partial compensation for what are defined as general system charges for the current quarter, with the reduction of the VAT rate and the strengthening of the social bonus for economically disadvantaged domestic customers or in serious health conditions, it is certain that we are going to put a patch to a cold draft coming into our home and doing so for the first part of the winter season. It is obvious that action will have to be taken again, unless the phenomenon remains cyclical, without becoming structural, as we hope. However, I remain convinced that a residual share of structural type will remain however, because epochs are the phenomena that we are experiencing in this late beginning of century, epochal is the global pandemic phenomenon, as is epochal the change of pace of many countries that are experiencing a new industrial revolution, that is changing the fate of the planet, and the increasing demand for raw materials, from metals, to agri-food resources, as I mentioned earlier. Turning back to the issue of energy resources, more than ever before, we urgently need to work on a national strategic plan. [[Applause]] , which takes into account the problems that I have just mentioned and the much-conclaimed and necessary sustainable transition, compatible with the needs of an industrial system in operation - let us not forget - but that above all seeks to fill the dependence on raw materials, which we know how to obtain, but for which we do not have, for which we are subject to fluctuations of the price, according to the classic and elementary laws of the market, of the supply and demand. Today the eco-sustainable transition could become even economically advantageous for Italy. Let me explain better: the only source of energy available to the planet is solar energy and from this comes wind, water usable in terms of kinetic energy, biomass, but also methane, oil and coal. It is certain that in Italy we have the sun, the wind, the water in hundreds of invades already made and built, and also the biomass. Well, it is on these sources (sun, wind, water and biomass) that we must work and invest urgently, precisely to reduce dependence on methane and oil. We have started and we must continue, accelerating the necessary processes; we must do so by exploiting all the resources that are widespread, even the smallest. We must use the roofs we have, those of industrial, craft and civil buildings; we must use the wind, the wave motion, the artificial invades existing. I would also like to make one fundamental point: I want to focus on the need, no longer procrastinable, to be able to overcome the limit of the accumulation of electricity. I am referring to the fact that we are often forced to stop production facilities from renewable sources. Perhaps we are not all aware of this. Many times it happens to have to stop the production of electricity from renewable sources, at times when the demand of the user is minimal; for example it happens to have to stop the existing wind plants. The solution is to accumulate the energy that can already be produced and whose peaks are cut. And we can do it in the cleanest way and in the utmost respect for the environment, collecting the outflow of the hydroelectric plants in basins at lower altitude to pump it up, with the energy of the peaks from renewable source that we cut today, in the original invader at higher altitude. These interventions are not done in a few months or in a year; this is precisely why an urgent plan is needed to plan the necessary feasibility studies. Otherwise, we will always chase in emergency, with urgent measures. Today is the time to plan, respecting our planet; the funds are there. It's an express request I'm making to the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u9	Senator Anastasi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it rarely happens in the history of one country that such a short and so small decree-law (just three articles that talk about bills, plus three others that talk about something else) has such a large impact on the population. In almost three articles we take care of all Italian families and an important part of small and very small enterprises. We obviously do so in limited time, until December, to alleviate a moment of discomfort, but - as has been widely described in this House - it is a long-term discomfort, which comes not from Italy, but from the cold winds of Eastern Europe and which has distant origins. We need to take two minutes to do an analysis of this discomfort. In fact, the political question underlying this decree-law is precisely our inability to plan an energy policy in time. It is no coincidence that the Vice-President of the European Commission, Timmermans, almost apologized to the citizens of Europe, saying that if we had started renewable energy policies ten years earlier, we would not have been in this position today. My speech will focus on the first three articles of this decree-law, because Article 4 totally speaks of another, with good peace of those who, from the Colle down, say that the decree-laws must be homogeneous. In fact, this is far from homogeneous.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u11	Senator, this is your direct interpretation; we absolutely do not call into question those who have no responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u12	ANASTASI (M5S). Absolutely; I made a simple consideration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is a consideration that is not really reflected in what you are saying. It is a personal consideration, but it has no foundation. ANASTASI (M5S). That is one of your considerations, Mr President. I was saying that the political issue is about the planning of our energy policy, which has only in the last few years begun to focus on our future time horizon, that is towards renewable energy, towards better energy sustainability. Obviously this has happened with the last two governments, Count 1 and Count 2; first it has done very little. Energy policies are not improvised; as long-term policies, they must change the entrepreneurial approach of a country and the approach to consumption. Well, we did it, for example, with totally revolutionary laws. I am thinking, for example, of the superbonus that is going in this direction, simply by predicting that we can reduce the final uses of energy, inter alia by bringing environmental and employment benefits, thus disrupting the thinking of some political forces that say no to the ecological transition because it has an unsustainable cost. It's not like that. If the state does what it has to do, i.e. it shifts taxation from improper uses to its own and revolutionary uses, millions of jobs are created. Only the superbonus created 135,000 more work units. Gentlemen, they are real data; they are busy people, companies that are working and that will bring in the long term the effect of reducing the use of fossils, and if we reduce the use of fossils, we will also reduce the energy bill because the energy bills simply reflect the oldest law of the economy, the law of demand and supply: reduce the demand for energy, lower the cost of energy. That is why with a law that we have addressed to the civil sector, which is responsible for the use of 40% of energy, we find ourselves with greater resistance and resilience of our energy system, with more jobs and lower bills; therefore, we reduce the bills through this law. Moreover, the law has recently been amended by the "arrivanda" - pass me the term - budgetary maneuver, which we hope will arrive soon. In reality, it does not seem to be renewed in the best way; we will see if the Government of the best will interpret well the various solicitations that come from all the business world: Confindustria, enterprises, banks, the whole world that, thanks to this law, has set in motion. We are talking about energy policy. We should reduce the use of gas, which is responsible for increases. All I'm saying is that in the last year gas has increased by 400 percent: a price that is formed abroad, on which we have no power, we cannot affect anything at all. I say this also with good peace of those who in Italy - I address some political forces - say that we must drill more in order to have Italian gas. What are we talking about? Do we have any idea what we're talking about? In Italy we consume fifty-three billion cubic meters of gas and extract three: fifty-three versus three, so with what we extract we have no chance of influencing the price. Moreover, the extraction is often done by foreign companies that then sell gas on the international markets; therefore, we could also double production and not achieve substantially any result. It is of no use to drill more our seas and especially our mainland. We talk about Val di Noto - centre of excellence - as a possible site for an oil well. To make it clear what we're talking about. All this pushes us towards a more responsible and better use of energy. We need to reduce the use of gas. If we want to lower the cost of the bills to Italians, we must reduce the uses of gas and not increase its production. This is the logic of the plumber: if you have a loss, go repair the damage and not increase the flow rate because otherwise the problem gets worse. We must reduce the use of final gas and oil even with good peace of those on television the other day said that we will reduce the cost of bills to Italians - heard, heard - using the money of citizenship income. This is really beautiful. I laughed not to cry: we use the money of those in absolute poverty to give it to those in energy poverty. The usual war between the poor and then in the Commission and in the House goes to help the oilmen. Congratulations. It's embarrassing. Those who have spoken these words should be ashamed. We call on the European agreements, the Kyoto Protocol, the Paris Accords, with the 2030 targets and climate neutrality by 2050 to continue the path, to activate the few results achieved in the recent Cop26, planting a million trees. Gentlemen, the capture and seizure of CO2, by someone mentioned, represents a technology that we want to implement in Italy, but that in America has been shown to be useless, uneconomic and against the environment. And now we want to implement it in Italy? No, we need to implement the only possible measure to capture and seize CO2 and that is to plant more trees. We have to plant billions of trees, as set out in the Cop26. We must then substantially increase the flexibility of the system, implementing the energy communities that did not exist in Italy and that we have brought, that will help us to pay less bills and to make better use of renewable energy. Energy communities will help the whole country. It is a measure that has proudly achieved the Movimento 5 Stars, the only true ecological force in Parliament. [[Applause]] I demand that because my Group has demonstrated this by means of action and not just by word of mouth. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to point out that we are going to resume, during the examination of the draft budget law, all the amendments which, due to lack of coverage, have been rejected and I also go here in favour of the sellers of electricity and gas who pay in more than one way to the municipalities, then pouring the extra costs on their customers. We will resume all the measures rejected to go in favour of Italian families and companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u13	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u14	Mr President, apart from the triumphalist tones that we have just heard and the government's statements and statements that the bills have increased today, tomorrow they will fall again and in 2023 they will be at the levels of the first months of 2021, we regret to report and photograph, just to have the confidence of what really happens, a rather difficult situation. A rather difficult situation that the measure before us goes to intercept only in part and in an absolutely emergent way. However, it seems that everything in Italy is an emergency even when the pandemic or energy problems have been in the public domain for years now, we realize and are always overwhelmed by emergencies as if they were inescapable and absolutely not preventable or at least not planable. I think there's a basic problem. There is a lack of an energy strategy, an acute problem, among other things, by a purely ideological vision of what the ecological transition should be, that is, what energy should be, not today but in a few years' time. Beyond that, I am convinced, among other things, that the continuing decree of emergency and the continuous pursuit of matters do not even help the confidence that citizens then have in this Parliament and also in this Government. Let us assume that it is true that there has been a Dragons effect, that with its great authority, its great knowledge, its great capacity for relations also in Europe, has helped people in the first period to calm down. I am the mayor and in my municipality - as in all 8,000 municipalities of Italy - when there is a problem, when there is an emergency, it is atavico that, regardless of the color of the mayor, the population tightens around him and sees it as a point of reference; it is something almost normal. The same thing happened with Dragons. Today, however, many knots are coming to the comb, especially thanks to the fact that we are in the white semester and therefore the political parties that support the majority, that until yesterday in some way folded the head or, with a form of condescending a little 'forced, they did not dare even criticize the work of Draghi, we have seen that instead they begin to raise a bit' the crest, perhaps hoping or thinking that, once voted the President of the Republic, we are also free of what now begin to define "the burden Draghi", to resume a little' more precise and punctual control of the situation. And I understand them too, because when you haven't won an election for ten years, you're regularly in the government of the nation. [[Applause]] , do anything because no one disturbs the occult maneuver. But in all this there is a nation, ours, which happens to suffer more than the others. In Portugal, no one noticed these increases in energy; in France, they noticed them in a light - let's say - way; in Italy, by chance, the citizens notice them from the bills. Even there is a government that announces the increase of the bills and that, instead of planning an intervention immediately, first takes care to put its hand forward saying that they will increase the bills and then, almost with a saving mission, gets to ground a few billions, always in debt (don't think that these billions have come down the fireplace or brought them Santa Claus), managing almost to make us believe that if there had been this Government today, the bills would be exponentially higher. It seems to me slightly intellectually dishonest to think that this can be the case. In fact, what has happened is much simpler: there is no national energy strategy; much more likely, there is no real national strategy that goes beyond the quota. There is no government of long view and there can be no government, because this is a crowded majority ranging from the League and Forza Italia to the Movimento 5 Stars, and that cannot have a strategic vision of the Nation, because in it there are at least five different visions of the Nation. It is evident that you continue to pervade your supposed ability to solve current problems. In fact, the problems today are not that they come only from household bills. I quote, for example, the Murano artisans, who have seen the gas cost increased by 400 percent since the beginning of the year. That is an area that, if there is no planning policy, is not content to know that from 2023 - as you say - the bills will return to the value of 2020. As credible as you may be, I do not believe that most Italians believe in your fairy tales; in the same way they do not believe in it because they touch it with their hands every day and realize that it is not possible for them to face at least a year and a half in condition of great difficulty. These are costs and increases that do not only concern the craft sector. We think of agriculture, today it is believed that speculation on agricultural prices is the fault of farmers, but in this regard there are always two visions: when prices are lowered it is not because of farmers, but because of large-scale distribution and farmers; when the cost of raw materials increases it is always the fault of farmers, who, by chance, are crushed by the supply chain and are seen to recognize a law on unfair practices that is in fact a litmus test, because it does not solve their great problem of fixing a minimum price, as already happened. In Italy we had the grain cluster, we dismantled it together with the large consortia, convinced that the costs of national policy were lurking there; then we realized, instead, that the great cost of this nation is not making strategy and being at the wheel of the strategy of others, so much so that even President von der Leyen says that we should make a European reserve of energy, because we have a dependence on gas of 90%. What a great discovery! Congratulations to President von der Leyen who today, with the increase of the bills, realizes the dependence also for the European enterprises. Turning to national issues, it is true that you have allocated a few billion on this measure. Well, you have also put them on citizenship income and continue to devote them to what is another measure that is beaten up for businesses; therefore, in the face of this slaughter that you intend to give to the adverse fate, that is to say to the increase in prices, you add the one you choose, that is to make sure that companies do not find employees, because you pay them to stay at home and do nothing. It is therefore not true that you are at the side of businesses. You sharpen their crisis with your unholy choices [[Applause]] : on the one hand the decision not to make a national strategic plan, on the other the decision to put ideological policies in place, such as that of citizenship income, which have brought thousands of employers to their knees. Who cares? Some of you have always called them "prenders," so they don't touch each other. Since these are the preludes and this is the current situation, it seems clear to me that we are the only part of Parliament that can even afford to make certain demands today. It seems that it is you, with some kind of benevolence, who grant us the possibility of differing from what you say. The vast majority of Italians outside this House say what we say here, because on the day you give citizens the opportunity to vote, you will realize that those who are majority in this House today are no longer majority in the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u16	Mr President, representatives of the government, my fellow senators, this summer has had a great media impact, as we have all seen, the news that with reopenings, the restarting of economic activities and the recovery there was a considerable increase in electricity bills, therefore an increase of 40% of the costs for families and businesses. This news has had a great political impact, but at last it has brought back the theme of the expensive bills to the centre of the political debate itself. We immediately mobilized all of us, the political forces and the government, because a tile of this kind, at such a particular moment for our country, was not and must not be there at all. We have come out of a difficult phase, finally we see the light at the end of the tunnel, so at this particular moment we absolutely cannot bend citizens and businesses with these disproportionate increases. The subject of expensive bills has therefore returned to the centre of political debate, but I remember very well that we had already been interested in the subject in the past. In fact, precisely in the period of closure and lockdown, in which we approved measures to support families and businesses, we at Forza Italia have always placed the theme of energy and rising prices at the heart of our political activities and our initiatives, but above all of support for the consumption of families. It is therefore absolutely not a new issue and it is very dear to us, especially with regard to system charges, linked to fixed costs for companies and energy for domestic and family use. What did the government do in September? Continuing to follow the wake of a state ready to help citizens and businesses at a particular time, it issued this decree-law, because the effects of the economic crisis have affected many sectors; the blocking of activities and immediately after the recovery have led, after the summer, to an increase in prices, especially of energy sources. This has been a serious problem. As always, price increases at source fall on end-users and therefore on households and businesses. The data estimate that the increases would have affected families, already starting from the upcoming Christmas period, for about 500-1000 euros a year more at home. We cannot afford this and we must intervene. That is what the Government and this majority are doing with the decree-law under consideration. Another aid and support measure, similar to that for families, which we will then examine specifically, is that for businesses. It has spread the news of many large enterprises in important territories, throughout Italy, that they are deciding to reduce the production and consumption of energy in this particular moment. We cannot afford it, because at the moment we are following the growth of our country with force, we cannot think that companies will slow down or even stop production. It is a dangerous spiral that must be defused, because at the moment the priority is economic recovery, which cannot be put at risk or limited by these intolerable increases. That is why this decree-law has been passed, which supports families and businesses with about 4 billion, which is in addition to those that will allocate the financial maneuver on the way. Therefore the theme of the dear bills today is central and does not end in the political debate on the conversion of this decree-law, but will continue in the financial maneuver. Around 3 million households today will benefit from the social bonus electricity, those with low incomes and a low ISEE, including pensioners and families in difficulty due to health problems and using electromedical instruments at home. For these 3 million families today the increases will be completely cancelled. Then there are 6 million small enterprises, which have a low voltage user, up to 16,5 kilowatts, and another 20 million domestic customers for which the rates for the general system charges for the fourth quarter of 2021 are zeroed. It is an imposing measure on the reduction of the system burdens that we have been asking for for for a long time, which we have managed to achieve today. There are also 2.5 million households that will benefit from the gas bonus, so the expected effects of the increase in the bill in the fourth quarter of 2021 are almost zero. VAT on natural gas users, households and businesses, which in many cases is 10% or 22%, is also raised to 5% and system charges are zeroed. It is a necessary measure at this particular time. Clearly we are accused that this is a temporary measure, but, as I said, it does not end here, because we will continue to work and keep the issue at the centre of the debate, even in financial manoeuvre, to support families and economic activities. The economic crisis has invested many sectors. Certainly, companies, especially the larger ones, are energetic, as we call them; but we must ensure that the many commercial activities and services (because they also use energy) are now able to fall within the categories defined as energy, so that they can benefit from these bonuses and, in this particular period of pursuit of growth, take advantage of the measures we are preparing, in a perspective that goes beyond the emergency of the moment. As far as it is necessary to think of a revision that concerns the sectors that must be involved, because the speech does not stop at Decree-Law No 130 of 2021, but is brought into the debate on the imminent financial maneuver, with the forecast of additional resources to support against the expensive bills. These are the fundamental steps, which are added to the other measures that the Government has taken at this particular moment, precisely to make it feel, with force, the help and support of the State towards families and businesses. It is clear that further steps will be needed, because structural reform is needed, with the possibility of transferring, even gradually, on general taxation the system charges imposed on the electricity bill and interventions on VAT applied in bills. The moment is propitious. Now we should make these very choices. We are talking so much about ecological transition: perhaps the right time has come, since we have opened the debate on energy, to talk seriously about this issue and to take action in favour of our citizens and businesses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pianasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u18	Mr President, representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the subject of today's debate is very important and vital for so many families and companies in our country. The uncontrolled increase in energy costs risks having a devastating impact on budgets, especially of the weakest sections of the population, directly and indirectly. Directly, because with the winter season at the door the consumption for light and heating is destined to grow; indirectly, because the increase of the energy costs for the companies, cascade, will provoke an increase of the prices of the finished products, with the result to impact further in a negative way on the family budgets, even only at the level of the costs to be incurred in order to make the expense, considered the combined increase and so far uncontrolled of the costs to the fuel pump. It is enough to see, already compared to a year ago, how much the retail prices of many products have increased. The situation worsened after the cost of electricity increased sharply from the second quarter of 2020 to August of this year, from 16,08 to 22,89 euro cents per kilowatt hour, according to the prices of the most protected service. In the meantime, however, prices have materially increased considerably. Suffice it to say that the price of oil has increased by 200 percent since spring 2020 and that of natural gas by 30 percent only in the last three months. This last aspect is particularly important for the situation of our country, since natural gas is used to produce 40% of electricity. This situation has been caused by a combination of factors, including the reduced availability of gas produced directly in Europe and the decrease in supplies from Russia, from which Europe is heavily dependent on energy. Without wishing to go into geopolitical considerations, it is clear that Italy's position is very weak, given the known energy dependence on foreign supplies to cover domestic needs. This is a condition which, in cases like this, of reckless price increases because of undoubted speculation, accentuates the fragility of our economy. In this sense, the hasty abandonment of energy production through nuclear power plants is proving to be detrimental to our country from an economic point of view. [[Applause]] The issue of renewable energy is always used ideologically without concrete data, but the truth is that about 10% of electricity consumption in Italy comes from nuclear power and is all imported, mainly from neighbouring France, which also produces about 75% of its electricity with nuclear power plants. We have renounced the production of nuclear energy for environmental reasons, but we buy it from the other side, with the result that we pay for something that we could have produced at home, without being protected from the alleged risks associated with its production. If there is a lesson to be used for the crisis in which we are debating, this is the fact that we must work to reduce our dependence on energy imports as much as possible. [[Applause]] If this has to go from the re-introduction of nuclear production by exploiting new technologies with high safety and low environmental impact, then it is good to address the issue, without bowing to the instrumental propaganda of the fanatics of environmentalism that, as some have said, cause more damage than the climatic catastrophe they are debating. [[Applause]] The government, with the measure we are discussing today, has put in place extraordinary measures to mitigate the effects of the surge in gas and light prices, committing a lot of resources overall. These are impressive figures, but not nearly enough to cover the increase in energy prices that we buy from abroad. In fact, with the heavy economic effort studied by the government the expected increases in bills will be 29.08 percent for light and 14.04 for gas, impacting in any case heavy on the budgets of many families, but not only. We think, in fact, of the increase in the costs of other raw materials such as steel and, combining them with the increases in the cost of energy, the result will be exorbitant increases for the final products. If the cost of producing a car increases in line with that of its components, especially plastic and steel parts, the same will be done in proportion with the price to the consumer, with the result of decreasing the share of potential buyers. A reduction in car sales translates into less production and less work primarily for the workers of the assembly factories and later for the components companies, in a vicious circle that could have dramatic effects on the economy of our country. The example of the automotive sector could also be replicated in other sectors. The nightmare of a new bad season is not so distant and obviously not only concerns our country, but the whole of Europe with the due proportions. At this moment our companies - I am talking in particular about my area, the Canavese, where 70% of the steel is printed in Italy - are experiencing a recovery phase, after a stagnation due to the explosion of the pandemic. This phase, however, is likely to end very soon if the spiral of rising commodity prices is not slowed down. In this sense, the European Union is called upon to play an extraordinarily important role in avoiding, or at least mitigating, the effects of an economic crisis which is not yet well defined in all its seriousness. It is clear that Italy cannot continue indefinitely to provide resources to reduce energy costs, it needs a structural response to meet the challenges facing us in the current situation and to plan a strategy to protect us from dependence and imports of energy resources. These answers can only come from Europe, where we believe that our country will be able to recite a first-class role thanks also to the authority, competence and experience of our President-in-Office of the Council. With regard to the measures of the day to contain increases in energy bills, we at the League are certainly in favour, although we are aware that this is a palliative that cannot solve the problem alone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u19	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and representatives of the Government, the measure we are talking about here today has become necessary for the continued energy policies undertaken by this country in the past that are not up to what we have to do. Faced with a necessary ecological transition in our country, requested by young people and movements such as Fridays for Future, born from the action of Greta Thunberg, requested by our Planet and the climate upheavals that all the cities of our country have been living for too many years now, due to climate warming due to emissions of greenhouse gases, methane, CO , directly responsible, we find ourselves having to find resources to lower the cost of energy that we consume every day. But why are we discussing such a measure? Why do we still have to depend on fossils in this country? Why do we keep talking about CCS? Why do we continue to talk about nuclear after two referendums in this House? [[Applause]] The Movimento 5 Stars is the only political group that continues to act, to talk about topics such as renewable energy, incentives for electric cars, retrofit, sustainable and alternative mobility, energy communities. To our Movement above all and to the formation of this Government we owe the birth of the Ministry of the ecological tradition and measures like the super bonus to 110 percent, that have come to life thanks to the work of President Girotto and undersecretary Fraccaro. [[Applause]] We are glad that you are all talking about super bonuses now, but a year and a half ago we were alone in pursuing this issue in this House. Now we all agree that it is necessary, there is no member of the government who understands how important this measure is. We depend on others because politics years ago chained this country to fossil sources, which instead of looking ahead, remained prisoner and firm in the use of these sources. Have the motivations been shortsighted, fear or perhaps worse motivations? These raw material increases now fall on everyone's bills. The 5 Star Movimento was the first political force in the House, with Davide Crippa, to talk about the topic with a motion against the dear bills, then signed by all the other Groups. Now with this decree we intervene 3.5 billion to help three million households. We intervene to try to stop these tariffs. Limiting the maximum increases will help families and small businesses and safeguard our economic and social fabric, which came out with serious damage from the pandemic that unfortunately opened up new difficulties for this country. As I always say, fortunately there is the income of citizenship, which some continue to dispute at this time. This shows once again the absolute need to get out of dependence on fossils. Action must be taken on the growth of renewable energies, energy efficiency and the spread of the storage system. Logics outside Italy have led raw materials to historical peaks, due to the pandemic, the difficulties of supply chains and the high quotations for CO2 emission permits. All of this led to an increase of more than 45 percent in electricity bills and more than 30 percent in gas bills. Thanks to the measures launched by the Commission, they will be lowered, but outside we will continue to have increases on the bills. With the previous decree on work and enterprises were allocated 1,2 billion euros to the reduction of the burdens on the third trimester. The measure under consideration is designed to contain increases in gas and electricity prices in the fourth quarter for about 3 million households benefiting from an electric social bonus, for large households, for those with an ISEE of less than EUR 8.265, for citizens' income and pension recipients and for all users in serious health conditions. Why do they increase their bills? It is necessary to consider the fast-growing trend of the prices of the main energy raw materials, the increase of more than 80% of European gas prices in the third quarter compared to the second and the peaks in the wholesale market of more than 70 euros per megawattora in the second half of September compared to the beginning of the year, when the figure was 20 euros. In addition, the trend is also related to the price of CO2 emission permits, which reached a record of almost 60 euros per tonne. By comparison, it is thought that in September 2020 it was 28 euros and that between the second and third quarter there was an increase of 13%. Prices of raw materials and CO2 have had a strong impact on our costs and on other countries which, like us, are linked to these primary sources. Another very hot topic I would like to address is electricity and gas bills. 59.2% of the cost is attributable to energy, 17.5% to energy transport and counter management, 10.7% to system charges (which represent a varied sum of issues) and 12.2% to taxes. The costs we bear are therefore divided between energy, dispatching, equalization and marketing. All this increases the daily costs. For this reason it is essential to create a virtuous circuit of self-production. [[Applause]] We tracked it and a year and a half ago President Girotto, anticipating all the countries of Europe, brought to know the theme of energy communities. Only with self-production can we get out of this impasse. I conclude with a statement by our President Conte on this very issue. On the issue of bills, the moment is favourable for a definitive solution: we must take the opportunity to lighten the bills once and for all, shifting the system charges aimed at investing in renewable sources and at dismantling nuclear power in general taxation, so that they are paid in proportion to personal income capacity, in full respect of the constitutional principle of the progressiveness of taxation. It doesn't take long to figure out what the path is right now. The Movimento 5 Star has traced it: energy communities, super bonuses, advent of electric mobility and incentives to electric cars, transition 4.0 and Ministry of Energy Transition. [[Applause]] These are the issues which we have brought to Parliament and which have never seen the light. It is important to put the ecological transition first on the political agenda, now or never. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u21	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the speeches in general debate and these are things we have been saying since 2013. We are in fact paying the wrong choices of the past decades and the Covid simply brought the knots to the comb. There is not much more to add: we have been wrong about energy policies over the last 20 years. In the period 2008-2009, with the costs of then, which were five times higher than those of now and with an efficiency that was still more or less half of the current one, we installed 9 gigawatts of photovoltaic. For those who are not practical of powers, I remember that all the gas park we have in Italy is equal to 50 gigawatts. Ladies and gentlemen, in about a year we have installed a fifth power of all the gas stations that we have achieved in the last 20 years. We did so in one year and with prices that were five times higher than the current ones (scanning for a moment the increase due to the pandemic, which will come back). So, in terms of cost-benefit ratio, I am sorry to disappoint those who believe they can pursue other roads, but they will win renewables, simply because they cost less. California and Florida, which are not properly two countries governed by the Movimento 5 Stars or environmental associations - among other things one is democratic and the other is republican and so there is par condicerio in this case too - are building not gas plants, nor even less nuclear power stations, but plants with renewable sources, with side by side storage, and do so because it costs less. So if we want to move on to the facts, the many words and the "blah blah blah" that I have heard today, we have to do one very simple thing: increase the production of renewables and this goes for a simplification of administrative procedures. Now we will see who really wants to go from the "blah blah blah" to the facts, increasing the production from renewable sources, continuing on the policies of energy efficiency, both on the industry side and that of mobility (I remember that there is not only the topic of electric mobility, but also a speech of logistic reorganization) and on the side of the superbonus. My colleagues have said that with superbonus we cut very much the cost of energy requirements, but I take advantage of it, since I have the option, to say that we also cut health costs. In fact, we must bear in mind that the superbonus also serves to cut health costs, because 60% of the particulates present in the cities - which, as we unfortunately know, in Italy, causes 90,000 deaths per year and all the consequent diseases, with the costs that the health system has to bear and the reduction of the hours worked - is due to the chimneys of the boilers. We must therefore insist on the superbonus, also for this economic reason. As I said before, although there are a few people in Parliament who are dealing with it, there is not only the question of energy sources and the transition to renewable sources, but there is also the fact that the electricity market - which seems not to interest you, ladies and gentlemen - is not ready for passage. The 5 Star Movimento is working on it, too alone, in order to change the electric market. It was born in fact in the past decades, when there were large power stations and therefore the whole market was conformed to large power plants, production and then dispatching. Colleagues, I do not know which of you knows the market of the day before, the market of dispatching services, the market of ancillary services, the aggregations, the capacity market, but if we do not reform these things, who will be in Parliament again in the next legislature will have to explain to the Italians why in this legislature we have not reformed the electric market, with the consequence of not being ready to accept all the production from renewables. I call on everyone to study this subject a little more, because otherwise the ecological transition is not done. The 80% ecological transition is energy transition and the energy transition is renewables; if the electricity market is not ready for renewables, we are at the end of the day. Someone talked about the usual debate about increasing internal drilling. Apart from the fact that PITESAI is very restrictive in this sense (if anyone has read the proposal), the fact remains that, even if we extracted more gas or more domestic oil, that is, Italian, these would be valued with the dynamics of international markets, based on their overall cost. So we wouldn't have what benefit. Of course, my 5 Star Movimento colleagues have already said that the resource is extremely scarce and that we would have very little. There is always the talk of price: in fact investors are coming to install renewables, not to make new oil or gas wells. Two words about nuclear, the famous nuclear. I give a report that many people evidently do not know, simply because it is not their subject; I do not blame them for it, they are obviously experts of other things. Let me remind you that this famous clean and economic nuclear, that is, the fourth generation, does not exist; not in the sense that we do not conceive it, but in the sense that technically it does not exist. It's like talking about nuclear fusion: it's a beautiful thing, but it's still at the prototypal stage. The fourth generation may be a good thing, but it has not been achieved at all. Let's not talk about costs, which no one has a clue about. Even at the level of experimentation and prototype, the fourth generation, i.e. a fissile power station, not fusion but nuclear fission (clean, safe and economical), does not exist; you are talking about something that just does not exist. Read the scientific texts: we have been talking about the fourth generation for 20 years, but we can't even do the third generation, colleagues. They've been trying to build the third generation for 20 years! [[Applause]] But do you realize that in France the cost of installing a 1.6 gigawatt power plant has risen to 29 billion? The cost per gigawatt is 10-12 times higher than renewables: 1.6 gigawatts will cost 29 billion. And it's a third generation and they can't build it. Colleagues, why does nuclear power go on? Let's remove the fig leaf: nuclear goes on for military matters, exclusively for military matters. It is the French citizens who are paying for nuclear power. I'll tell you one thing: Areva has failed. [[Applause]] It is the French citizens who are paying for nuclear power and EDF is also in great difficulty. I am also surprised by some of my colleagues in the Commission. We've been going on with the nuclear waste deal for two years. Colleagues, nuclear waste is an impossible mission. We don't have the solution. [[Applause]] All over the world, not only in Italy, there is no nuclear waste depot of the third category, that is those that last 200,000 years. Do you have any idea what it's like to build a storage facility that lasts 200,000 years? In what language do we write instructions for a deposit that must last 200,000 years? What support do we put them on? On paper, on DVD, on an SD card, on a computer, on a hard drive? What are we gonna put them on? Having said that, if we want to move from 'blah blah blah' to the facts, we are now voting on this measure, which is clearly a patch, and moving on to structural reforms. Structural reforms are: more distributed generation, more renewable, more energy efficiency, superbonus, energy communities. And good work to everyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u23	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what was established during the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 paragraph 1 of the Regulation, amendment 2.0.2 is not possible due to the extraneousness of the matter with respect to the contents of the decree-law. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u24	Mr President, more than to present an amendment, I would like to use the time available to make some reflections on it and, more generally, on what you have just announced, namely the exclusion of an amendment because of the extraneous nature of the matter. The question I would then like to ask you, Mr President, as well as the offices of the Senate, the House and the Commission, is what this decree-law is about. What is the nature - or, better, the perimeter - of this measure? Mr President, you have just declared amendment 2.0.2 unacceptable because of the extraneous nature of the matter. I do not go into the matter, but I would like to point out to you that the title of the decree-law brought to the attention of the Senate and the Commission: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 130 of 27 September 2021 on urgent measures to limit the effects of price increases in the electricity sector and natural gas" Now, if this is the title of the measure and it is the precise and unquestionable perimeter within which to decide what is the foreign matter, why is there a paragraph that talks about changes in the study plans and the implementation and organizational modalities of the specialization course in pedagogy and special didactics for educational support activities and school inclusion? [[Applause]] Can you explain that to me, ma'am? What does school inclusion and pedagogy courses have to do with gas bills? This is not a topic to smile on: the Government may issue decrees-laws of dubious urgency on heterogeneous matters, but the Government itself and the Senate prevent parliamentarians from introducing much more relevant topics, because the trap of inadmissibility falls. I would ask you once again, Mr President, what is acceptable and unacceptable and what is the criterion for deciding whether an amendment is admissible or not. [[Applause]] What is the perimeter of this decree-law? President, I reserve the right to speak again later. All I'm saying is that at the end of the issue of the amendments that have been distributed, there is an amendment such that the decree-law is no longer called as I have just read, because in the end - and that is after the examination in the Commission - it is added: "as well as for the repeal or amendment of provisions providing for the adoption of implementing measures." In the Latinum of the jurists, it means that we have put a legal piece to the fact that the decree-law contains matters unrelated to the title of the same, but nobody says anything about this, because everything is fine, if the majority does it. After that, amendments on much more relevant subjects, on which the opposition or some of the majority of our colleagues are trying to reason, are "boosted" by the Senate Presidency, by the 5th Commission and, if that were not enough, also by the General Accounting Office of the State. [[Applause]] This is no longer a democracy, President: call it what you want, but it is no longer a democracy. I refer to the appeals that in recent and less recent years the highest authorities of the State have addressed to the Government and Parliament in the matter of omnibus decrees-laws [[Brusio]] ; I know it doesn't interest my colleagues, but I would like to conclude. I refer to the institutional and academic appeals of those who, far more prepared than I, once again denounced the fact that we approve omnibus decrees without any respect for the Constitution, Parliament, the Senate and the opposition forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u25	Senator Ciriani, the Presidency has taken into account timings that make the norm no longer temporal. I ask Senator Girotto, who together with President Alberti Casellati has established the terms for which the amendment has been declared inadmissible, if he wants to add references to Senator Ciriani in order to understand its improbability; otherwise, as he knows, being the judgment of the unappellable Presidency, I consider the amendment improbable, as I have been indicated (for a problem of temporalization, according to the explanations given to me) and how Senator Girotto can confirm.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u28	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I am announcing the withdrawal of the agenda G1.2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u31	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to point out that there has been a misunderstanding about the different numbering of agendas between the Commission and the House. I therefore call for the withdrawal of the G1.4 agenda and the readmission of the G2.16 agenda to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u32	Senator Arrigoni, we will deal with the agenda G2.16 when we arrive at Rule 2. I consider the agenda to be withdrawn G1.4. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u33	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 1,100 and against Amendment No 1.5. I am in favour of the G1.1 agenda. I am in favour of the G1.3 agenda, so that there is a rewording to include the classic formula at the outset to consider whether it is appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u34	Senator De Petris accepts the wording proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u35	GIROTTO, rapporteur. I give a favourable opinion on the G1.5 agenda, provided that there is a slightly more complex rewording of the commitment, by including at the beginning of the second introductory line an assessment of the possibility of considering, in accordance with public finance constraints, additional fiscal measures... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi accepts reformulation. GIROTTO, rapporteur. I give a favourable opinion on the G1.6 agenda, with the classic rewording to consider whether this would be appropriate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi accepts reformulation. GIROTTO, rapporteur. I am in favour of the G1.7 agenda and against the G1.8 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u36	Mr President, I agree with that of the rapporteur, with a clarification on the agenda for G1.5 by Senator Castaldi: in addition to the rewording presented by the rapporteur, I would also ask that the first paragraph of the first paragraph, containing the two commitments, should include the words 'to assess the appropriateness of 'to' before the following: 'to activate a table as a matter of urgency'.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u37	I see Senator Castaldi nodding, so the reformulation is accepted. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.1 to 1.4 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senators Garnero Santanchè and Nastri, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.6 to 1.9 and agendas G1.2 and G1.4 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G1.1, G1.3 (text 2), G1.5 (text 2), G1.6 (text 2) and G1.7 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote on the G1.8 agenda presented by Senator Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u38	Mr President, I would like to make two agendas. The first is the G2.7 (text 2), through which we ask the Government to use the resources allocated in the budget law, to which we hope they can be added, to make an intervention of mitigation of the dear energy for the first quarter of 2022, so that not only the current audience of the beneficiaries is taken into account, but it is extended to include also the medium and large enterprises, the energy workers of the gas, and also - because they are not exempt from this blast of the dear energy - the municipal administrations, which for a few months to this part have difficulty to square the budgets. As for the agenda for G2.16, which I have just asked to readmit, we ask the Government to assess in the next measure that the VAT facilitated is provided not only for the administration of gas, but also for that of electricity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u41	Mr Giarrusso (Misto-I-PVU). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendments 2.0.1, 2.0.2 and 3.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u42	We take note of that. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u43	Mr President, I am against Amendments 2.8 and 2.12. I give a favourable opinion on the G2.1 and G2.2 agenda, where a rewording has been accepted to add the following words before the part of the agenda: The opinion was also in favour of the G2.3 agenda, where a more massive rewording was accepted, with a view to eliminating the final part of the text after the words "the decree-law" were issued, in order to correct the second part of the first commitment, after the first four lines, and all the second commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u44	Senator Collina, do you accept the proposed reformulations? COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I welcome them. GIROTTO, rapporteur. I am in favour of the G2.4 agenda and the G2.5 agenda, when we have accepted a rewording to add to the commitment, after the words: 'gas supply', the following: The opinion is also in favour of the G2.6 and G2.7 agendas (text 2), where they accept, in both cases, the rewordings aimed at adding, after the words "engaged" by the Government, the expression: "to assess the desirability of "." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the proposed reformulations? Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I welcome them. GIROTTO, rapporteur. Mr President, the opinion on agendas G2.8 and G2.10 is in favour. The opinion was also in favour of the G2.11 agenda, when it was accepted a rewording to add the following to the commitment, after the words "to evaluate": • the opportunity to create •. I give a favourable opinion on the G2.12 agenda, when accepted a rewording to add, after the words "engaged" to the Government, the following: "to assess the appropriateness of "to" at the beginning of all three points of the commitment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Anastasi, do you accept such reformulations? ANASTASI (M5S). Mr President, I accept that. GIROTTO, rapporteur. Mr President, I am in favour of the G2.13 agenda, where we have accepted a rewording aimed at closing the next part of the words 'in Articles 17 and 24 of your Rules of Procedure'. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the proposed reformulation? Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I welcome you. GIROTTO, rapporteur. Mr President, I am in favour of the G2.14 and G2.15 agendas, and the opinion is also in favour of the G2.16 agenda, when it has been accepted a rewording to add, after the words "the Government" are committed, the following: The opinion was also in favour of the G2.17 agenda, where a rewording aimed at expressing the final part of the text was accepted, after the words: 'final users via district heating'. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the proposed reformulations? Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I welcome them. GIROTTO, rapporteur. On the agenda, Mr G2.18 I am in favour of the following rewording: before the words 'to take the appropriate initiatives', add the words 'compatible with the needs of public finance'. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask Senator Arrigoni if he accepts the reformulation. Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). I accept. GIROTTO, rapporteur. I am against Amendment 2.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u45	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion. On the agenda of G2.13, in addition to the final period of the commitment, I would ask that the words "to evaluate the opportunity" be inserted, after the expression "the Government commits:".
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u46	Senator Arrigoni, do you accept further reformulation? Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). I accept. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 2.1 to 2.7 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8 tabled by Senators Garnero Santanchè and Nastri, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.9, 2.10 and 2.11 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12 tabled by Senators Garnero Santanchè and Nastri, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.13 and 2.14 and the G2.9 agenda have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G2.1, G2.2 (text 2), G2.3 (text 2), G2.4 (text 2), G2.6 (text 2), G2.7 (text 3), G2.8, G2.10, G2.11 (text 2), G2.12 (text 2), G2.13 (text 2), G2.14, G2.15, G2.16 (text 2), G2.17 (text 2) and G2.18 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senators Paragon and Giarrusso, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.2 is not possible. Amendments 2.0.3 (text 3) and 2.0.4 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u47	I am against Amendment 3.2. On Amendment 3.0.1 I am against, while on Amendments 3.0.8 (text 4) and 3.0.11 I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u48	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u49	Amendment 3.1 has been withdrawn. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested to do so, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.1, tabled by Senators Paragone and Giarrusso, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.0.2 to 3.0.7 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.8 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.11 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u50	Mr President, with regard to amendment 4.1 (text 2), on which I am in favour, specific opinion that further changes have just been made, which are not found in the dossier, because they are merely legislative drafting and do not involve financial burdens, so there is no need to ask for the opinion of the 5th Commission. I read about it. (a) in Article 17 (2), point (h) is deleted; (b) in Article 26 (1), the words: "or the negative results of the assessment referred to in Article 16 (1) (c) and (d) " shall be deleted; On Amendments 4.2 and 4.5 (text 2 corrected) I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u51	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u54	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur can better explain the Commission's amendment 4.5 (text 2 correct) because I have not heard a single word of explanation, but I would like to understand its meaning and merit, if possible. It seemed to me to be a very quick illustration, so I would like to better understand the reasons, the content and the purpose of the amendment - if it is still possible in Parliament to have a majority-opposition debate - since Senator Girotto has not spoken about it at all. I would like the rapporteur to explain to me, because I am ignorant, why this amendment exists, its aims and its contents, if it is not harmed majesty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Girotto, would you like to explain the amendment?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u55	Mr President, the content is in the file, so I do not see what is to be said. Clearly, I'm... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u56	Colleagues, the senator is explaining. We raise the volume of the microphone slightly, because probably the audio a little 'low did not allow the correct interpretation of the words of the colleague. Please, Senator Girotto.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u57	GIROTTO, rapporteur. I was saying that the content is visible in the text of the file, I certainly do not have to reread it. Clearly, it is a necessary amendment, which we have considered positively in the Commission. The text itself is explanatory to the content.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u58	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1 (text 2 corrected).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u61	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, there is an absolute novelty: the self-explanatory amendments. Next time, perhaps - I would advise you on a collaborative basis - write it on the side of the file: there are some amendments and then there are others, which do not deserve to be explained, because they are self-explanatory. Now, I understand the embarrassment of Senator Girotto, who must bear the cross for measures that he probably does not even know or agree with, but, President, once again doing not only witness work, but also making value to the activity of this Parliament, which has been reduced to being totally subordinate to the Government's will - we repeat - that here we approve paragraphs and articles that the rapporteur does not even know: I do not know if we realize the seriousness of the situation. [[Comments.]] The rapporteur has just told us that the amendment is self-explanatory. Once again, I repeat that I am waiting to understand - and I am addressing you, Mr President - what specialization courses in pedagogy have to do with gas bills, because no one has answered me yet. [[Applause]] , especially the government. President Taverna, I am not mad at you, who is currently chairing this House, but I am addressing you as representing the Senate institution at this time: I would like to understand why it is urgent to include in the decree on energy and gas bills a paragraph relating to the definitions of pedagogy courses, starting - as we read - from the academic year 2025 and 2026. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, where is the urgency of a paragraph inserted into a decree-law concerning energy bills, with effect from 2025? Someone's gonna have to explain it to me eventually. I know that we are annoying, because we remind the House, colleagues and groups that Parliament should have a minimum of dignity. We do not understand why Parliament is forbidden what is allowed to the government every day. [[Applause]] I am referring to doing what he likes with the decree-laws, adding things that have nothing to do with it, in absolute silence. I repeat once again that we do not defend the reasons of Brothers of Italy, but those of Parliament, if anyone is still able to understand the difference. [[Applause]] Will anyone have a whisper of dignity in order to reject this paragraph and send it back to the competent Commission, which is not that of energy, to evaluate it and present it together calmly in the first useful and coherent measure? Can we do this job or is that not possible? I ask my colleagues in the majority. I do not have anything against content, which I do not discuss, but against the principle that only the Government exists and we are in here doing only the letterheads, voting on things that we do not even understand, because the majority is not able to explain the content of the texts. I am voting against this announcement.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u62	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.1 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.2, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.3 and 4.4 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.5 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us now move on to Amendment No 1, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u63	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u64	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u65	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the coordination proposal No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u66	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u67	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u68	I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for coordination No 1 was voted by a simultaneous vote. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u71	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak briefly on this text. We know that the increase in electricity and gas bills had been announced for some time, and this news has aroused great concern, especially in those living in poverty, due both to the personal situation and to the consequences of the pandemic. The price dynamics of raw materials are moving towards historical peaks and are still in strong growth for the recovery of the economy, after the declines due to the pandemic and the difficulties of supplying from the productive supply chains; also the high quotations of the permits of emission of CO2 will quickly lead to a very significant increase, as has been explained to us unequivocally. We are also in the presence of an increase in the cost of raw materials wider and unpredictable than the previous ones. The swift and timely intervention of the Government - in this sense, we owe a thank you, once again, to the attention and diligence of the Executive towards these pathologies and criticalities - which has merged into this decree-law therefore seeks to soften its effects in a delicate phase of the recovery to protect the most fragile and most exposed consumers. More attention has been given to families in greater difficulty. This, however, is obviously not enough: in fact, impoverishment does not only affect the sections of the population who were in a state of serious poverty already before the pandemic, because that state of poverty, as we know, has also reached a percentage of families and businesses that, although in the average, are now struggling to endure everyday life. More importantly, work is needed to take advantage of all the opportunities for structural reduction in energy costs, and in this direction the 10th I would like to thank all of us for the work we have done, in the margins of what we could do, trying to improve the original text. I am also thinking of an amendment that has been strongly desired by the Italia Viva Group - Italian Socialist Party, which prepares measures to increase the liquidity of energy markets and thus reduce the costs of transitions. The increase in bills is undoubtedly yet another problem, yet another critical one that is added to the general impoverishment due to the economic crisis, since the pandemic has exploded to the present day. It is a situation that not only affects a small part of the country, but it crosses many families, many businesses and also many young people, who are confronted with the expenses related to the need to remain autonomous, but in the face of a job that is more often precarious, at a fixed time, that does not guarantee stability and serenity in the conduct of everyday life. In this context, therefore, the intervention of the Government has proved absolutely indispensable and necessary. Once again, it is clear that the Government has known and continues to intercept all the difficulties that the country is experiencing and has prepared a measure that will certainly not be able to resolve, but at least to partially mitigate the consequences of a similar, burdensome increase. Among other things, this decree-law comes just close to the Christmas holidays, a moment that should not be happy only for the moments you spend in the family, but also because traditionally sees a resumption of economic activities just in view of the Christmas expenses: it is a time that entrepreneurs and businesses wait all year long, because it is evident that the expenditure of families increases considerably. However, with this measure, it is hoped that the recovery of many economic sectors will not be further sacrificed, which during the Christmas period are able to give relief to their coffers, especially after the last two years as a whole, in which obviously there has been a huge drop. The measure we are debating today provides for the allocation of extraordinary funds to stem these increases in some way, in particular by limiting fixed costs, represented by system charges and VAT. This appropriation includes the zeroing of fixed costs for small businesses and measures for households with the lowest incomes, so as not to impose on these categories any increases in energy consumption costs, so it will have a very positive effect on the country and its economy. The measure protects more than 3 million people who already benefit from the energy bonus. They are households with an ISEE of less than € 8.265 (or less than € 21,000 per year if they have four children), recipients of income or pension of citizenship and users who are in serious health conditions. These are the most fragile categories for which the effects of bill increases are tending to be zeroed. The benefits also concern domestic and non-low voltage users, with power up to 16.5 kW. The rates relating to the system charges for the fourth quarter shall be cancelled. As for gas, the effects of the increase in the bill are tending to be zero for about 2.5 million people benefiting from the social gas bonus. For all other users VAT, which is now expected to be 10% and 22% depending on consumption, is increased to 5%. The extraordinary nature and importance of the interventions decided by the Government with the measure under consideration are evident in order to cope with an unprecedented increase and that will certainly have a very heavy impact on the economy of the families. However, there is also a clear need to identify new and broader structural measures which are capable of providing instruments to deal with current changes in energy markets. With the measure under consideration, however, we are certainly giving concrete help to many companies and families - the most fragile ones, which have been in extreme difficulty, if not even to those families that are in extreme poverty - to face the negative crises that would otherwise occur because of the increase in prices, which we have explained to be inevitable. The Gruppo Italia Viva-P.S.I., therefore enthusiastically adheres to this new measure of the Government that continues to pay attention to the most fragile categories. In announcing our vote in favour, however, I would stress that we are aware of the need to move forward in this path of aid towards the most fragile categories - we are and will support this type of action - and of support for economic recovery, the favourable effects of which are before everyone's eyes, but which really needs very strong action. Parliament's united action is needed in support of the Government in this direction, with the awareness that we are moving in the right direction. Italy can recover and restart properly if we are able to carry out this action. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u74	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to some of my fellow Members' speeches and I cannot understand the vision of great triumphalism, as if today the problems of Italians had been solved on the expensive bill. I would like to remind you, because you may have missed it, that this measure devotes around EUR 3 billion to the reduction of increases, but that the impact of these increases on the expensive bills is EUR 9 billion. So there is a patch - let's call it that - put on a third of the increases. I ask you, then, if you are aware that the remaining EUR 6 billion will be removed from the pockets of families, businesses and municipalities. I remember, in fact, that even the municipalities will have to pay the increase of the bills and will do so through the current expenditure: this means that they will remove the money - because it is always about current expenditure - destined to the interventions in the social field, for the benefit of the last and the most needy. We wonder, therefore, if this really is the habit of the house, of the present Government, which should be the Government of the best: so it is in the narrative. Colleagues, instead continue to get swept up by emergencies, to chase them and to try to put patches. Do you know that what we are voting on today may be used to limit the expenses of the last two months of this year? Do you know that businesses, workers and families will be overwhelmed by next year's increases? The decree-law under consideration therefore makes us understand the absolute lack of vision of the Government, which is before everyone's eyes. Wouldn't you happen to want to tell us that you didn't know about such increases? I remember that, even in an unusual way, you had a minister who went around, saying: "They will increase the bills by 40%" and not "We will solve the problem, so that the increase does not impact businesses and families". You have made a race against time, to try to stem, without succeeding, a phenomenon not only inevitable, but also predictable. In fact, there was no emergency for something that happened from today to tomorrow, because we all knew it would happen. Do you also know how and how this affects businesses? Colleagues, do you talk to entrepreneurs? I take the example of our district, that of ceramics and tiles, which is an Italian excellence. Do you know that this increase will impact so badly that perhaps many companies will have to close down, because they will not be able to bear such an impacting cost increase? So I ask the government of the best: instead of financing with additional resources the income of citizenship, to let our young people stay at home on the couch, maybe to play at the playstation, why don't you take care of the policies for the job and the maintenance of the job? Do you realize that this expensive bill will impact hugely? Don't you get a spontaneous, sensible question? I understand that common sense is far from this government. All of you, colleagues in the majority, fill your mouths with the 6% increase in GDP next year, but look at the EUR 9 billion increase endangering our growth, our jobs and our companies. But you are absolutely not concerned about all of this. So you can't understand how these billions of euros of increase will impact devastatingly. By now your customary way of governing is to buffer, without having absolutely a vision and without solving the problem, which remains structural, dear colleagues. This shows that the increases will be even greater than we anticipate today. But - as I have already mentioned - your choices are different. Nor do you bring Europe into play, and here too I address the great Europeans. We can't solve the problem on our own. Today we find the statements of President von der Leyen, who says that we need to talk about a strategic reserve and the possibility of joint European procurement. Sounds like Alice to me in wonderland. These are problems that, as far as the Brothers of Italy are concerned, we have always had a great deal of attention. It is always that same Europe that leaves itself alone and that, when you need it, there is only in the titles and declarations. It is that Europe that thinks Lampedusa is the border of Italy and not of Europe. It is that Europe that behaves in the same way with migrants, thinking that the problem is Italian and not European. Then I truly believe that you should make a broader reasoning. You should understand that there is need, there is the need and urgency for a reform of our nation's energy policy, which must really be able to reduce our dependence on foreign countries and exploit our many reserves. Basically, it is necessary to make a plan that really puts the vision of this absolutely strategic sector at the centre and that instead you do not tackle, except with palliatives, coming to the Chamber and believing that the Italians can be persuaded of your words, when you say that you put 3 and a half billion. But what is 3 and a half billion compared to the 9 billion increase? 11:57 a.m. (Garnero Santanche followed). We of Brothers of Italy do not want to be Cassandres. We as Brothers of Italy are patriots and believe in our nation. But you have to explain to me how this government, a government of opposites that holds together those who had opposed, to find solutions. No, colleagues: you find mediations that never put the answers and solutions for Italians at the centre. That is why I announce the vote against the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u77	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law renews for the fourth quarter of this year the measures already introduced by the Decree-Law on support for the third quarter. They concern the reduction of the cost of bills, through the movement of certain items within them (the general system charges) and the lowering of VAT rates. It seems clear to me, also from today's debate, that it may seem quite inadequate to talk about bills in the face of the importance of the debate on energy issues. There is a discussion that concerns the entire planet and that was addressed a few weeks ago in the G20; COP26 is now underway in Glasgow, whose results are still uncertain. There is therefore a global dimension of the theme, which, among other things, sees in some way some decisive subjects for the definition of incisive actions for the future, and I am talking about large countries such as China or India. There is also a European dimension to the problem. I remember when President Draghi spoke in this House, before going to the European Council in Brussels, to explain to us the issues through his communications; well, the issue of energy and high energy was one of the most precise and appropriate issues from the point of view of our country, which focused on the need to address it at European level. Colleagues, in fact, that European Council has stated that we are not yet giving a European response to a European problem, but an independent response from individual countries. This is in fact a still unresolved issue within the Union and, therefore, represents a difficulty that each country faces its own ability to address the problem in its own autonomy. I think this is something that needs to be emphasized. Colleagues, the pandemic has made us - at European level - make an important leap: we have understood that there is an interdependence between countries in dealing with supranational issues, and sovereignism is not a response to problems of this dimension. Here, on the issue of energy, but rather on the environmental issue and ecological transition, we have not yet managed to take this step. While it is true that the pandemic has made us understand that vaccines are the answer that has to be taken, addressed and carried out in a Community way, it is equally true that on the issue of energy and ecological transition we still do not have this awareness, and we understand that we have to take important steps. On this I want to stress one aspect that must be our awareness: the ecological transition is not the energy transition tout court; it is the transition of our production system. This is what we should be dealing with. I recognize the Movimento 5 Stars of having brought sensitivity to the themes of ecology, ecological transition and respect for the planet, with force within the institution; a force that until then had not been there. After that, we have to build this transition; we have the task of charting the path to the goal, which is decarbonisation. That goal is to be achieved to be on a living planet, but we must get there with a living productive and social system. So, this has to be the path we have to track. Just one example: a few days ago the head of Volkswagen announced that there will be 30000 redundancies out of 100,000 total employees in the automotive sector in Germany. It is an announcement that is valid today for next year. Building the path that gives an integral sustainability to the energy transition means taking into account all the actions that must be put in place to give the ecological transition the right path. The transition is not a leap; the jump is not sustainable. The transition is the path we have to build. The substantial failure of the European Council on energy issues, as well as the discussions in the Cop26 as in the G20, are placing Europe's attention - I am thinking of the Commission, Mr von der Lyen - on the need to make proposals which are points of synthesis in the direction of decarbonisation. From this point of view we must put in place a discussion and a reflection that lead also in our country to a synthesis with all the operators, and not only with the stakeholders, but also with the productive world and the social partners. This is a very important issue. The resources are not infinite; the transition must be financed and supported in the investments that must be made both to stimulate the new technologies and to support the investments of transformation of the productive system. On this point, we must arrive at shared summaries. I believe that we find the dimension of the transition in the ability to identify the various sources that must accompany us and must enable us to make the ecological and energy transition sustainable. It is clear then that we cannot imagine ourselves going to 2050 as we are, closing everything that brings increase of CO2. In these years, however, we must continue to be competitive through traditional sources as we replace them, through an investment path and also technological advancement, with sources that do not have an impact on the atmosphere. I believe that we still have a long way to go in this area, and I believe that the contrasts, which I sometimes detect, are absolutely not productive. Today we dealt with the issue of expensive bills. Think that if China, making an important leap, were to replace all coal-fired power stations and bring them to gas, it would absorb 40% of the world's gas resources on the planet. We need to bring important subjects such as China to the discussion table because, otherwise, all our efforts will not only be useless, but they will undermine our ability to remain on the market with the production system. I therefore believe that progress must be made. The measure we are considering is a measure of relief from the increase in costs, which is partly cyclical and partly structural. I believe, however, that we must not miss the opportunity to start significantly with the Government a reflection that will enable us to build the sustainable path of ecological transition and the transition of our production system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u80	BUCCARELLA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, kind members of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Decree-Law No 130 of 27 September 2021, which we are about to convert into law, is sacrosanct; it is one of those rare cases where the criteria of urgency and necessity are clearly concrete in a regulatory intervention of government initiative. The reduction of the cost of the bills in relation to the last quarter of the current year was, in fact, an intervention required by the notorious dynamics of the prices of the bills, especially of electricity and gas, due to the events - also notors - of geopolitics and international energy markets. If the forecasts of increase in relation to the quarter in question forecast an increase in electricity by 45% and that of gas by 30%, thanks to this intervention these increases - unfortunately there will still be - will certainly be mitigated by the legislative initiative. And they will be reduced to 30% for electricity and halved, i.e. to 15%, for gas, respectively. It is clear that we cannot completely eliminate the increases on the bills that citizens and businesses will pay in relation to the current quarter. However, this is a necessary intervention to which we can refer in order to say that there is policy, to the extent that it is possible to do so. The intervention of the Government and our Parliamentary is an act of witness and closeness to the entrepreneurial fabric and to the Italian families. Moreover, the reduction of the system charges - and I shall dwell on this - takes place through a part of the proceeds from the auctions of CO2 emission allowances. We know that, as far as electricity is concerned, the system charges for the quarter in question will be substantially cancelled, up to a maximum power of 16.5 kilowatts. As far as gas is concerned - as we have seen - VAT is concerned. Today the VAT for domestic uses is 10 percent up to an annual consumption of 480 cubic meters; after this threshold, the rate goes to the ordinary one (22 percent). With this measure we are intervening by setting a 5% rate. Even for industrial uses the cut will be net: from the present 22%, with the exception of some sectors that already enjoy incentives (extractive, agricultural and manufacturing companies), we reduce the tax burden of VAT to 5%, with the consequent savings. Even more welcome is the intervention provided for in Article 3, where the Government and Parliament are concerned, through social bonuses, to zero the increases for economically disadvantaged groups and domestic customers in serious health conditions. It is therefore a sacrosanct intervention; there are the prerequisites of necessity and urgency; the content is acceptable. Coming to some more general reference, also on the basis of the debate that has taken place so far both in the general debate and in explanations of vote, we all seem to agree that the way out, beyond emergency measures, even if they are necessary like this, is to think of structural reforms that affect as soon as possible (which does not mean tomorrow, because maybe the next day is not possible). The structural interventions that national energy policy must pursue are those of the abandonment of fossil sources: we are all saying this, but then in concrete terms we must understand how much and how we are willing to bet and really believe that the strengthening of renewable energy sources, even with its own limitations and defects, is the only way that will allow us to detach the umbilical cord that binds our country, but in essence Europe all and the whole world, to fossil sources. We have read with concern that the Chinese continent - let us call it this - even necessarily envisages an increase in the use of coal for the industrial sector, which then feeds the manufacturing sector, which enjoys - as we know - especially the West. So what can we do? Colleagues from the opposition of Brothers of Italy have evoked a national energy plan, but this is and is being built day after day, thanks also to the great opportunity of the PNRR. We must greatly increase the production of electricity from photovoltaics, the intelligent one, the one made on the roofs, the one that uses the new technologies of agrovoltaics compatible with agricultural production. We need to increase hydropower production with wind, especially offshore, little or no impact on the visual level. We must strengthen with great speed, simplifying the simplification - as has already been done in part - of this type of direction. The issue of accumulation is highlighted, as my colleague from the League rightly pointed out in general discussion. It is true: it is estimated that there are two hundred river basins that can be upgraded to build and optimize accumulation systems for hydropower. I would also like to remind you on this occasion that another technology is developing and that large investments are moving towards the so-called green hydrogen, that is, the one produced from renewable sources, which can be the energy vector that will help solve the problems of the accumulation of electricity that - as we know - must have an immediate consumption and, to be preserved, needs very expensive battery systems; the hydropower has physical limits. It is curious to see that other energy storage systems, such as the so-called gravitational volt, are also experimenting: huge cranes lift, bringing large blocks of 35 tons of cement down and up, using the movement of the winches to produce renewable electricity in excess to lift the weights and then, letting them fall, produce energy that activates turbines and produces electricity. But let's leave this to those who are experiencing it and investing in countries where perhaps the visual impact is more easily tolerated: I think - for example - the desert areas. In addition to the accumulations, green hydrogen, the strengthening of renewable energy sources, I would like to remind you that in this parliamentary passage an agenda has been approved - albeit with the usual formula for which the Government is committed to assessing the opportunity - at the first signature of Senator De Petris, who intervenes on a subject related to this, namely the so-called environmentally harmful subsidies (SAD). A commission established in 2019 has already drawn up some solutions that could bring us considerable savings in spending, to invest for the ecological and energy optimization of the country, intervening on about 34.6 billion not from one day to the next and all together, but in an intelligent way, starting to eliminate the subsidies that we still give for drilling or research funds for gas, coal and oil. Above all, given that the 110% superbonus is a topical issue in the budget law - with the limit of an indicator of the economic situation equivalent [ISEE] to 25,000 euros, which seems confirmed and which I find unreasonable with regard to single-family houses - let us remember that to that extent something could be removed, namely the incentive for gas boilers. Although they are the last generation more performing than the old gas boilers, they still consume gas, that is, they still keep us attached to fossil energy sources, which see us forced to be still dependent on foreign and even non-ecological supply, due to the notorious losses that the gas system entails. It would therefore be good to take stock of this issue in order to take advantage of every future opportunity to optimise the work we are doing today. I shall conclude by announcing the Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u83	TIRABOCHI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Forza Italia will vote in favour of the measure under discussion, appreciating the effort that the Government has made in a very short time to sterilize the increase in the energy bill. However, we cannot fail to point out a serious concern with regard to some data which, if they were to be verified according to the forecasts, would have a very negative impact not only on the poorest families, but also on those who have had serious difficulties in the last two years, drawing in part significantly on their savings in order to move forward, as well as on small and medium-sized enterprises. I believe that, for intellectual honesty and above all to start a very calm reflection on these issues, it is necessary to remember some figures. If the tariff rates were to remain unchanged, the cost of natural gas during 2022 would be around 9.5 billion. This is because the gas prices are double compared to the last survey, the one in September, which we used for the last update. The gas prices remain three, four times higher than those of the pre-Covid period, although Russia - to be very clear - has reopened the taps. To be honest, we are, as it were, a bit tearing out such supplies between China and Europe. I remember that China - Mr Buccarella - is not a continent, but - thank God - still only a nation, though very large. [[Applause]] As I said, no matter how much Russia has reopened the taps, the law is market law and therefore China responds to the fact that there is a scissor between supply and demand of 4-5 percentage points. It also responds to the fact that it is drawing on the reservations. During the period of the Covid-19 there were no investments and this is another element to be observed. You consider that, before that period, investments were in the order of 850 billion per year; during the period of the Covid they dropped to 300 billion and today they have risen to 500 billion, but the situation is not yet in balance. Energy to Italy costs 4-5 times more than it costs to the United States. Our industry is extremely energetic and we produce a lot of CO2, also having to pay the right taxes for emissions, the so-called system charges. All this I wanted to say, because it is true that the Government has not done everything it could do, but we pay - on this I cannot fail to agree with the rapporteur - the consequences of a lack of planning that has lasted for many years now. Unfortunately, things are not improvised from evening to morning: it takes time to prepare investments, to give a structural response in terms of energy mix, and to face seriously the ecological and energy transition. [[Applause]] We do not underestimate McKinsey's rather worrying report, which estimates that, in the next 20 years, for an average utility, the damage from loss of revenue and reconstruction costs due to extreme weather events could be in the order of a couple of billions. I say this because all the infrastructure has been designed and built in times when the climate crises and all the extreme events that we are experiencing over the last ten years did not exist and, therefore, will be put under stress significantly. Imagine what investments will have to be made and how these will necessarily affect the final price that the user will have to pay. These are not transcendental events, but actually happened; you will remember what happened in July in Germany and a year ago in Texas, when that energy crisis led to the lights turning off for a significantly long arc of hours. Some actions must be planned in advance and you can no longer arrive at the last moment. Just as you cannot be late on an energy dependency that our country has from abroad. It is precisely the same energy dependence that Europe also has, as the colleague of Brothers of Italy correctly recalled. Ursula von der Leyen said that 90% of natural gas consumed in Europe is imported and that is no longer sustainable. Supply and self-sufficiency must be planned in strategic terms. [[Applause]] Clearly this goes hand in hand with a revision of the method of calculating bills and therefore with all the talk of general system charges. I heard Mr Damiani say this morning that it will be an issue brought within the draft budget law, and therefore considered within the general tax system. And then, with an act of great courage, in my opinion, our Government, led by our authoritative Premier, should start, even at the level of the European Commission, the comparison on the single tariff. Until we arrive at the single tariff everything I have said, in terms of the autonomy of the European energy system, cannot be achieved. I would like to make another brief comment, linking myself to the next draft budget law, on economic growth. We know that economic growth is seriously compromised and that must be said. I would like to ask for attention on an issue that has not yet been discussed within the Forza Italia Group (but the maneuver will soon come and I believe that there will be an opportunity to do so). I would call for special attention to be paid to the EUR 8 billion allocated to the tax chapter, precisely to take serious action on the tax wedge. In fact, it is necessary to lower the cost of labour for employers and give more net wages to workers, otherwise, during 2022, although the Government tries to buffer price increases, we will not be able to support domestic demand, because necessarily, with less money, domestic consumption deflects. A final point, after the rapporteur has strongly expressed his criticism of nuclear power. This is my view of the university system. A few days ago we heard the coordinator of all the rectors, Professor Resta, exhort to consider the university as an organization alongside the State and private, at an extremely complicated time, when we are going through two important transitions, the ecological one and the digital one, which - I want to repeat again - hybridize and which are extremely complex topics, not easy to understand for all of us and for the community in general. Why not tackle the issue of nuclear power in very serious terms? The rapporteur has told us that there is no fourth generation technology. On the other hand, I read that Europe exists and even that it will be subject to strong pressure from France. [[Applause]] I therefore ask that the university system, through research, innovation and all the skills, present and future, and with a great work of training of future engineers, future biologists and future scientists, help us understand (because politics must only understand and then take responsibility for the choices) whether nuclear should be considered or not. [[Applause]] For what little I have read, nuclear must be absolutely considered and tackled in non-ideological terms, otherwise we will never be able to achieve neutrality, zero emissions, with the current level of technology. It'll always be just a big dream. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u86	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in a few months it is the second time that the Government has taken action to mitigate the high energy. In May, the 30% increase in gas prices linked to the recovery of economies and the increase in CO2 emission prices due to the decarbonisation imposed by the EU led the government to allocate 1.2 billion to contain for the third quarter the increase to 9.9 percent of the light bill, which would otherwise have been 20%. However, the prices of CO2 and above all of gas have continued to rise rapidly and since September have risen. From the storm we found ourselves in the perfect storm: the gas in the last year is more than 400 percent and has pushed the electric prices to record level. The government, intervening with this decree, allocating 3.5 billion, has allowed in this fourth quarter to reduce the impact of 30% for electricity and 14.4% for gas. In the absence of the measure, the increases would have been 45 percent and 30 percent respectively. Bill charges and VAT for gas have been reduced to 35 million domestic, micro and small businesses and the social energy bonus to three million vulnerable households has been strengthened. Colleagues of Brothers of Italy, we cannot say that nothing has been done. [[Applause]] The Commission's was an extraordinary operation, absolutely necessary, but unfortunately it did not avoid the beating of the expensive bills to many. I am thinking, for example, of the users of district heating and of natural gas for motor vehicles, for which the reduced VAT of 5% has not been recognized. In addition to heavy goods vehicles, we are talking about a million methane cars that pay 70% more fuel today compared to a year ago. They're on their knees and the whole chain. The mayors are in difficulty for the budgets of their municipality and, in general, all public administrations, including hospitals. Medium-sized and large-scale enterprises and the energy-intensive ones of gas are in difficulty. Some companies have opened credit lines with banks to pay their bills. I am thinking of the agreement made by Confindustria Lecco-Sondrio. Other companies, despite being full of orders, are slowing down production and some have stopped because production has become too expensive, as decided by eight furnaces in the Murano glass district. I mean, there are so many jobs at risk and there will be social problems. To these realities in crisis the League has tried to give answers with amendments, but the Government, renewing the commitment to intervene also with the maneuver, in the phase of conversion of the decree has not provided additional resources and all the onerous amendments have unfortunately been rejected. We, however, will resume them in maneuver. [[Applause]] The phenomenon of expensive energy is obviously not only Italian; it has an international dimension, but Italy suffers much more because it pays inefficiencies never resolved and questionable choices made in the past as the energy account that supported renewable plants, where speculations have been increased, increased the burdens of system and has not created a supply chain in our country. The heavy increases weaken the competitiveness of our companies and affect families, perhaps not all directly in the bill thanks to government intervention, but indirectly because of the inevitable increase in the prices of consumer goods linked to increases in production costs. The risks of curbing post-pandemic restart and inflation are very high. The situation is increasingly serious, less and less cyclical and risks being structural. I'm trying to show you. (Senator Arrigoni shows a graph.) This first graph shows the average daily prices of electricity in Europe in September: the darker the colour, the higher the price of energy. I make two remarks: Italy has the sad record of the highest price. We, in fact, were 159 euros per megawattora, France at 135 (less 15 percent) and Germany at 128 (less 20 percent). I note that in 2019 the price was 52 euros from us, that is a third. Evidence that precisely with the September prices the government has allocated 3.5 billion to reduce the increases in bills. In this second graph, instead, note the prices of last month, October: the colors are darker and this has to make you worry. I'm gonna do some reliefs. Italy maintains the sad primacy of the highest price of electricity. Compared to the average in September, when the Italian price was 159 euros per megawattora, the average in October rose to 218 (the increase is 37 percent). While in Italy the price in October was 218, that of France was 173 (less 21 percent) and that of Germany was 140 (less 36 percent) and unfortunately the trend in these days of November is constant. Also the Authority of regulation for energy networks and environment (ARERA) yesterday announced that the prices of gas will not come down shortly, but if anything from next April. In short, the gap between ours and the other European countries has increased: why? Is it because Germany - but my question is rhetorical - has a large energy mix with 13% nuclear, 35% coal and 35% lignite? [[Applause]] Moreover, we have decided to shut down coal-fired power stations by 2025, Germany perhaps by 2038. They have so many biomasses that we don't develop and then they have gas, which they receive directly from Russia, with North Stream, which will soon double. Perhaps because France, with its 56 power stations, has more than 70% of nuclear power from which we draw on average 10% of our energy needs [[Applause]] And we know that Macron re-launched the construction of zero impact nuclear reactors. It is clear that the countries which have not yet given up coal and which exploit nuclear power are better off, while avoiding the emission of millions and millions of tonnes of CO2 in the world. What conclusions do we draw? That the competitiveness of our companies and the budgets of Italian households are increasingly compromising and that the 2 billion allocated in budget law to limit the expensive bills in the first quarter 2022 are definitely insufficient and far from having a mitigation effect equal to this quarter. As winter is approaching, it is worth worrying about. The causes of this dramatic Italian situation are also to be found in our particular energy mix and in the excessive dependence on energy from abroad: for gas it is 95 percent and we allow ourselves the luxury, hypocritically, not to exploit our gas at zero kilometer, cleaner and exploitable at reduced emissions compared to what we will be forced to import for at least thirty years. [[Applause]] So what do we do? In the immediate - I repeat - we need a much greater injection of 2 billion and to widen the audience of the beneficiaries and then we must intervene structurally and rethink the country's energy policy. Italy cannot wait for Europe which, after the drunkenness of renewable only and only green hydrogen, unfortunately is divided on how to deal with expensive energy and perhaps only in December will decide something. Our recipe cannot be that of the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, who push only on photovoltaic and wind. By the way, energy communities are not just your business, we have also contributed as a League to introduce them. [[Applause]] Although the accumulation systems will be technologically developed, the problem of their non-programmability is not solved. You see, the problem of these renewables is not manifested in the low costs of electricity production, but in the very high costs of non-production, not only when there is no sun or wind, but especially in winter and with renewable suns you cannot answer the demand for increasing energy. It is therefore necessary to return to invest with biomass, geothermal and hydropower, ecological outflow allowing. We need - and it is now inevitable - to reduce structurally the system charges which weigh 15 billion and shift them into general taxation. It is necessary - it has been the subject of several agendas of the League approved - to increase the effectiveness of the service of interruption for the energetic enterprises of the gas, fundamental with the winter to the doors and then to act in the community in order to define a regulation that establishes common rules in order to manage in safety the supplyings of the gas and the storages and to act in the package on sustainable finance and the taxonomy in order to insert the role of strategic accompaniment of the natural gas in the ecological transition both for the purpose of the containment of the costs of the energy, and in order to guarantee stability, safety and resilience of the energy system. Members of the Movimento 5 Stars, you voted on our agenda G2.6, which calls for gas to be included in taxonomy. Finally, we must take responsibility, in order to exploit our natural gas and reduce our energy dependence, for investing in diversifying sources of supply and decarbonising - yes - with new trees, dear colleague Anastasi, but also with the capture and storage of CO2 and not closing to the development and research of the fourth generation nuclear. In short, we must abandon anti-business ideological environmentalism and proceed with a pragmatic approach. [[Applause]] In addition, there is a need to ensure environmental, economic and social sustainability, as well as to ensure technological neutrality because all technologies that contribute to decarbonisation must be used. In conclusion, I announce that the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u89	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, Senator Arrigoni, we abstained on taxonomy and I remind you that there have been two referendums on nuclear power in Italy. [[Applause]] Anyway, we're talking about bills today. The pandemic continues to have harmful effects on our economy. After the acute phase, today we are also called to face the consequences of the progressive economic restart, such as the extraordinary increase in electricity and gas prices. Among the triggers that have contributed to the increase of this phenomenon is certainly the tendency of strong increase of the quotations of the main energetic raw materials, reached the maximum historical ones and still strongly increasing for the resumption of the world-wide economies as a result of the reductions due to the pandemic and the difficulties in the supply chains. Just to give a few examples, I would remind you that European gas prices increased by more than 80% in the third quarter of 2021 compared to the second quarter and that prices related to the cost of carbon dioxide are also increasing, which reached the record of almost EUR 60 per tonne. All this translates into intolerable increases in bills that, for a typical family, were estimated in about 145 euros per year for electricity and 155 euros for gas. [[Brusio]] Colleagues, if you don't mind, I'll interrupt. [[Recalls of the President]] What is of greatest concern are also the forecasts of the rating agencies, which for Europe and Italy attest to the substantial parking of the increases also in 2022 and 2023 because of the offer that will continue to contract. If the reasons for the increases are to be found in the above mentioned concauses of an exquisitely international nature, the consequences are all internal to our country, condition our economy and directly affect the final consumers. On the one hand, there are families (especially the less well-off and middle-class families) who risk being increasingly burdened by a tax pressure that is no longer sustainable. For many of them, this measure is certainly a first step forward. In fact, from all the interventions contained in the decree-law that we are about to convert emerges a general reduction of the impact of the increases that will instead be equal to zero for more than 3 million families in difficulty. Added to this is the zeroing of the general system charges rates for the fourth quarter of 2021 for around 6 million micro-enterprises and around 29 million domestic customers, as well as the reduction of VAT for all natural gas users. As has already been said, this is a first step which is certainly indefectible, but at the same time temporary and therefore not entirely sufficient. That of today, therefore, can only be a first measure that will have to lead towards a paved path of synergistic actions by all the Departments concerned, starting from the necessary initiatives aimed at containing at the root the phenomenon of increases at international level and, in parallel, with targeted and concrete economic interventions directed to the middle class and the larger enterprises. I am referring in particular to medium and large energy companies, such as those in the ceramics sector, paper mills or foundries, which, due to increases, see the costs of their production rise by several million euros per month and risk potentially devastating consequences, in some cases even closure. We must act without delay, giving good prospects, so that the workers have stability and are able to support their families and so that entrepreneurs continue to innovate and seek to stay at the forefront: Made in Italy is also defending itself in this way. I therefore believe that urgent action must be taken, not least in view of the fact that the measures already taken will be exhausted very soon, exactly at the end of the fourth quarter of the year. [[Call the president back.]] Since last summer, the 5 Star Movimento has been the first political force to call for immediate action against the expensive bills. We did so officially with a majority motion, at the first signature of the leader in the Chamber of Deputies, Davide Crippa, also listing possible interventions to tackle the phenomenon structurally. We were the first to fight also to reduce, in general, the high costs of the bills. On the one hand, we continue to support the urgent need to intervene on the burden of the system, but another path, which leads to true ecological tradition, must also be drawn up. This is a path that we have already taken, taking concrete measures, such as superbonus 110% and energy communities, which can immediately reduce consumption and therefore also emissions to protect the environment and generate immediate savings for citizens. Investments in renewables, energy efficiency, dissemination and storage systems are objectives that can no longer be postponed, for which we will have to fight side by side, all together. The alternative is to continue to depend on fossil sources and therefore to submit to the very economic blackmail that today risks bringing millions of citizens and thousands of businesses to their knees and that forces us to allocate huge resources urgently, which certainly do not generate a positive economic return for our economy. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would like to ask my colleagues if they will listen to me for a moment! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an absolute and intolerable disturbance. LANZI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, I would like to say something important to the whole House. Before I finish... [[Brusio]] I asked for a minute's silence, colleagues. Will you give it to me, please? Before concluding, therefore, allow me to return to the superbonus, a measure designed and wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars already in the decree-law relaunch, but today shared, finally, by all parties. But there is a "but": from the latest news, it seems that the Government is not willing to follow up on the commitments made in this House on a general extension until 2023. I would like to say to all my fellow Members that we cannot complain that Parliament is being punctually deported, even though we all agree on a non-divisive subject, we cannot convince the Government to follow the political direction expressed by Parliament. [[Applause]] The premises are not reassuring at all: on a budget maneuver of EUR 30 billion, we cannot leave such a narrow margin of intervention to Parliament, which, albeit partially, undermines its prerogatives. In particular for the most important changes there is no margin: either we all smell melons, recognizing our irrelevance, or we are consequent and keep the point in the Commissions. [[Applause]] Parliament wants superbouns: point! Instead it happens that one tries to block its leavening, disorienting citizens and businesses, who give up after having invested time and money in the designs. If we all want to, the result is taken home. It seems to me that I have made it clear: act in the Commissions or be silent forever! [[Applause]] I therefore call for the Government to find the necessary cover, in order to ensure the extension of the superbonus, at least until 2023, eliminating ISEE thresholds and all the formulas and exceptions that are only likely to create uncertainties and difficulties in application. [[Applause]] With these premises and with the hope that this will be only the first of the measures that will be necessary to safeguard citizens and businesses, I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u91	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u92	Mr Paragon (Misto-I-PVU). Mr President, we cannot fail to see the government's efforts to do the minimum, in the face of a frightening and unsustainable increase for businesses and families. Under the threshold provided for by this intervention it was impossible to go; but everything stops here. That's why we'll abstain. After this pit stop there is nothing structural that allows small and medium-sized enterprises and families to pay bills of gas and less expensive light. I tell you above all in the light of the intentions to switch to the electric and renewable sources, so much so that, in light of what you do (or better than what you do not do), I believe that the green revolutions will be only for those who have rich portfolios and for those who have florid budgets. I have the impression that, as long as the big groups do not give you the rules to approve (because they wrote them to you) and the interventions to be made (which are good for them), you will stand-by. We had proposed that you finally reward those who already consume energy from renewable sources with less expensive bills. What do you do instead? Reject the proposal, because you are contesting the fact that it is not a forward measure. In a nutshell, we were wrong, in your opinion, to want a rule that would reward once and for all those who responsibly consume clean energy. I also leave out your vote against our proposal to reimburse the bills of those who had business activities closed during the lockdown and to put them in charge of the large distribution companies, which precisely during the lockdown period have increased their profits. So, recapitulating, the moral of your policy is: incentives and rewards for energy workers (for big people) and bills always dear to families and SMEs. What you have done - I repeat - is only the least possible support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u93	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 130 of 27 September 2021 on urgent measures to limit the effects of price increases in the electricity and natural gas sectors" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u94	The next item is the debate on the drawing up of draft law No 2326. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Ostellari, whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u95	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would refer to the report in the file submitted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u96	It's good and fair. [[Applause]] The government representative does not intend to intervene. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I remember that the maximum time for explanations of vote is five minutes and that it is welcome even less.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u99	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I will be very brief. I would simply like to point out that we are now at the second extension of this Commission of Inquiry. The hope is that we will see concrete results of the work that should be done by this Commission and that we will actually begin to move a little more concretely, so that the results are also brought to this House's attention. As you know, there has been a debate on the expiry date of the extension, precisely in order to allow the House to examine the results on a very complex and very sensitive matter to which we must pay the utmost attention. We shall of course vote in favour of the extension, as we did on the occasion of the first one. The Commission's operating time had already largely expired. We arrive at 1 October 2022; we hope that on that date, finally, we will have something concrete on our hands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u102	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the Committee of Inquiry into the facts of "Il Forteto," as you know, has been working for months on a story that turns out to be one of the darkest pages of our country, so much so that if we told the facts to those who did not know the existence of it, it would think of a horror film or at least of a story that could not happen in our country, much less in our civilized Tuscany. It is true that we are discussing an extension, and I stress that it is necessary, but I think it is appropriate to remind us of all the fundamental points of this affair. The place, Vicchio di Mugello, a valley of the Tuscan Apennines, in the province of Florence: a place where for about thirty years were welcomed under foster care, away from families with serious problems; a place where serious sexual abuse and violence on minors were committed; a place where an educational, social theory was preached or implemented, a family model - I honestly would not know how to define it - wanted and managed by a certain Fiesoli, head of that community. I quote the same words that I used in this House when we voted on the Commission's founding law: "The Forteto" was a totalizing sect in which the personalities of the subjects, of children with serious problems have been cancelled, and tens, hundreds of families and people have been ruined, because at the "Forteto" there were not only very serious abuses of minors, the violence, the beatings, the complete sexual relations put in place by Fiesoli; in that place there were children who were raised at dawn to go to work, before being taken to school, to make a cheese that perhaps ate the many illustrious guests - from politicians to magistrates - who attended the structure. After the two Commissions of Inquiry of the Tuscany Region and the trials, which saw condemnations, it emerged that in that place everything was allowed in silence and with the connivance of politics, the judiciary, the social and health summits; with the approval and help of the Tuscany Region and the local administrations, who for years have considered "Il Forteto" an example, financing and promoting it. [[Applause.]] Even today, political responsibilities are not defined, it is still not well defined what the mechanism that created the short circuit of the system has been; a barrel discharge of responsibilities among those who had to control and had a duty to protect and protect those who were then young victims. In these months we have listened to many of those actors: the victims, the consultants. Still today we wonder how it is possible that all this happened, who protected Fiesoli. Is it possible that the magistrates, the politicians, the operators who dealt with "Il Forteto" have all acted in good faith? Is it possible no one ever noticed anything? Still these questions do not have a complete and complete answer. We need to get to the bottom of this, and for this we need more time; too many are still the dark corners. Above all, I would like to say to the President of the Commission and to my colleagues: let us use the time we are given again to get to the heart of the matter. We try to identify not only the individual leaders on whom the judiciary has already spoken, but also the political responsibility for this in order not to render our work useless. We owe it first of all to the victims, but also to the institutions and to the good policy that is dirty by the matter. All this without forgetting - I would like to remind myself and the Assembly - that if the "Forteto" is the most extreme and dramatic part of the events of the trusts - unfortunately not unique in its drama, I think for example of the story of Bibbiano - it is necessary to remember how much more it is necessary to deepen the general and delicate theme of the trusts. For these reasons and many other announcements the positive vote of the Group of Brothers of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u105	BITI (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of extending the deadline for the Committee of Inquiry into the 'Strong' not firmly, but responsibly. I would like to point out that we are already on the second extension. It is a Commission that demands responsibility; we are here for this, we have always voted for it and we have taken part in it. It is regrettable that Senator La Pietra has already carried out a report on a report. I remember that we are simply voting for an extension. I appeal to all the Commissioners, but above all, Mr President, to you to come to the vote on a report on this regrettable, dramatic and tragic fact which certainly affects the whole of Italy, but in particular an area of Tuscany, which is particularly dear to me. For the sake of respect that is due to all those concerned, to all direct and indirect victims, to vote on a report as soon as possible, without waiting for October. We have had some setbacks due to the Covid emergency, but that cannot be a justification for further extension of the work that must see us give clear and certain answers with a sense of responsibility. We know there's still something unclear. The Commission is working, but it is not acceptable that there is still, at this time when, I remember, we are voting only for the extension, the exploitation of those who think they have already a report on this subject in this House. [[Applause]] A theme that calls us, Senator La Pietra, to have responsibility for the victims. In the meantime, we shall vote for the extension and then we shall say in the report everything we have seen, each in its own positions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u108	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before this House is an important act of responsibility which all the members of the Commission and today all the senators present have decided to take to continue seeking that truth which for too long, for decades, has been hidden. In recent months, although the Commission's work has slowed down, we have found that the appeals made over the years were not in vain. Judge Bouchard's words are a clear example of this. I would remind you that Judge Bouchard, after decades of impunity, presided over the college that condemned Fiesoli, who had already been inquisited in 1978 for paedophilia, for his abuse and abuse of minors committed at the Forteto, but we are still waiting for his sentence to be reduced, too small for what he has done. According to the judge's words: There was a regional Tuscan law of 1980 that established a whole series of features to open a community. The problem is that whatever the meaning that you wanted to give to the experience of the Forteto in the reception of the child, the requirements were totally lacking. No type of authorisation, procedure and verification has ever been done on the characteristics of that structure. If the practices had been done, the cooperative would not have lasted a day. [[Applause]] Those are the judge's words. However, there was no interest in deepening what was happening because the children had both difficult conditions for a different location and because the Forteto did not ask for rights and for the institutions it was a really convenient solution. He didn't ask for fees, but he had funding for millions of euros a year. I still remember when, in the 16th legislature, Rodolfo Fiesoli came to the Senate to present his book, presented by a political force. A real j'accuse against the system that caused blackouts and caused damage to dozens and dozens of minor victims, and not only. The case we are dealing with needs time and space for debate, so that the State can recover the respect that it has lost over the years in silence and shame. On the door of this community, the institutions, the controls of social services, the judiciary and journalists have stopped, without entering, and satisfied themselves with the version that was provided from within. [[Applause]] A sort of free zone from which the state decided to look away, to pretend that this community, these people and what happened in that place did not exist. Of eighty children, fourteen committed suicide. It is our duty to deepen, first by individual conscience, then by all those whom we represent, the Italians. For these reasons, I hope that the Commission will be able to make up for lost time because of the health emergency, and that it will also prepare itself for a genuine reform of legislation in relation to family houses. All over Italy there are cases, perhaps not of the gravity of the Forteto, which demand revenge and, above all, controls. Forza Italia wants clarity for families and children who suffer tremendously because they are far from their everyday lives. This is not to mention the round of money reported, which passes between some social workers, juvenile judges and family houses, as emerged in the Childhood Commission in the last parliamentary term. For these reasons, I am voting in favour on behalf of Forza Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u110	You have the right to do so. VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we will always talk about the Forteto in this House. My colleague, I understand that the Democratic Party is afraid to talk about the Forteto in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u111	[[Applause]] ; It is logical that you are afraid to talk about this subject, because it has happened in your land. Thirty years - I repeat, thirty years - of continuous reliance [[Applause]] of children to a community, with past sentences in court condemning subjects for violence [[Applause]] ; for thirty years he continued to give children to the Forteto. [[Comments]] We're talking about a mother who's been in prison for four years, took her kids away, and then it turns out it was all fake. My thoughts go to you, my dear colleague. Let us remember the fact: an agricultural community founded in 1977, which then since 1978 has the first complaint for acts of libido on a child. In 1985 there was a sentence, passed to trial, in which the founder was sentenced for ill-treatment. In 2000, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Italy because it still gave children to that agricultural community; I repeat, the agricultural community. [[Applause]] Finally in 2015 you surrendered, because it was finally closed. I read some of the reasons for the sentence, because it is right to remember them in this House; a film should be made on this matter. I read from the judgment of the court: "in conditioning the voting choices" - that they did - "in the occasion of political and administrative elections" - "Forteto system" - highlighting the bizarre, unreputable, harmful educational theories" - such genders [[Applause]] , exalting the lack of affection between parents and children. That's what happened. The release of the two convicts was celebrated with politicians and trade unions. Maybe you're afraid of the names of these! [[Applause]] I come to the conclusions because the sentence is public and then we will really see some beautiful ones. Yesterday, as one of my colleagues said, the president of the criminal section of the Turin court reminded me of something I would like to read: I know for a fact that, if this court ruling had happened, instead of in Florence in Turin, the whole class would have asked itself questions about how this could have happened. Finally, I would like to point out that the Commission has accumulated 70 000 pages. We auditioned a lot. I would like to thank heartily the commander of the Finance Guard Leonardo Bernardi, who has been truly cooperative and to whom I would like us to applaud, as well as the Command of the Finance Guard that assigned him. I also address a thought to Mother to whom - as I said before - her children have been taken away and to whom, fortunately now, after four years in prison, they have returned it to her, totally withdrawing the sentence. I asked myself a question and you PD gave me the opportunity today with your speech; the answer is that maybe only there could happen this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u114	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, in this House in the last parliamentary term I think I have exhausted everyone: I have been talking about the 'Forteto' issue since 2013. [[Applause]] In 2020 we managed to set up the Commission of Inquiry, then for the pandemic emergency we had to slow down our activity. It was established in February 2020, in the middle of the Covid period, when we still knew nothing. We've moved on, we've collected 71,771 pages of documentation. I understand that the Commission of Inquiry was set up for one year and that an initial extension was requested in 2021, but now we are asking for another to do things right and without any exploitation, because the victims must not be exploited either side. [[Applause]] In order to do this, we must investigate and understand how this could happen, in order to assign responsibilities to the institutions in relation to everything we have heard, in the many hearings held, by victims, social workers and magistrates, because one cannot hear a person say that children had to be sent somewhere or assigned to someone: that is the problem. [[Applause]] This extension has nothing to do with the fact that we are doing something about the trust system, because in this parliamentary term we have also set up a special Commission for the foster care system, which must work with us; we can leave immediately, as soon as the budgetary session has ended. Let's get to work on the matter of the trusts, but let's not take away the possibility, in haste, to really understand what happened to the "Forteto" and to blame those who have them, without making all the grass a bundle. The 5 Star Movement since 2013 in this House has always taken forward the idea of protecting victims and trying to investigate as much as possible. Therefore, our vote will be in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u115	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u118	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, I asked for the floor to recall a figure, a senator: a hundred years ago, on 11 November 1921, Alessandra Codazzi, partisan, trade unionist of the CISL and then senator of the Christian Democracy in the VIII, IX and X legislature was born. I had the honour of meeting Sandra, who I visited in her home in the African quarter of Rome. In front of a good tea, served by his small but strong figure of mind and spirit, he gave me with immense generosity and competence advice for my activity then, responsible for the National Coordination CISL Women. He sometimes spoke to me about his struggle in hiding, in the Resistance, as partisan relay with the name of Rosario. She told me that she had never been afraid of her, as a great fighter, but had been afraid of the fate of her children and her younger brothers. He told me with passion and enthusiasm of his experience as head of the Workers' Office of the Union in the fifties, at the dawn of the union of Giulio Pastore. He helped women - she, as a woman who had had the opportunity to study and graduate - to redeem herself from their condition, even by giving instructions on her own personal hygiene. She fought, as a trade unionist before and after, for equal pay, against the precariousness of women's work. We owe to women like Alessandra Codazzi the achievements that we are making today. Right now, at a time when we have so much responsibility for change, from the digital transition to the ecological transition, to the need for demographic policies, I want to close with one of his words, taken from the little book Reflections on fifty years of history. • There are moments - the Codazzi said - of periods in which to live is a privilege; these are the moments in which changes are made that touch the essence of man, not a category, not a class, but the very essence of humanity. I believe that this time of ours is similar to its fifties and it is one of those moments that we have the privilege of living. We should live up to the ability of women like Alessandra who, across the board, together with women from different parties, have worked for the good of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u121	ABATE (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been almost two weeks since I asked Mr Stefano Patuanelli, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Policy, to convene a technical table to discuss the serious problems affecting the pear chain. In mid-October I attended the general assembly of Emilian growers, which was held in Mirandola, in the province of Modena. The event, entitled "From catastrophe to change for the rebirth of the pear sector," represented a very important moment to discuss with more than 300 farmers the crisis that the sector is going through and the serious problems deriving from the late frosts of 2021 and from other phytosanitary and market emergencies, which mainly affect the drupaceae and pears. In the course of the work we discussed the numbers of the fruit crisis that is investing Emilia Romagna and that has no precedent in history. Suffice it to say that it holds in its grip about 20,000 farms, 60,000 workers and a total of over 50,000 hectares of orchards. This does not count the economic value of the sectors of the transformation, distribution and the induced that derive from it and to it are connected. This debate, too, inevitably focused on the reasons for the crisis: climate change, diseases, new pathogens introduced into our nation through the global market, which only in Emilia-Romagna put in check almost 70% of the entire regional agricultural production of pears. The alarm cry of Italian farmers must not be ignored, because what is happening in their sector is the mirror of what is happening in general throughout the fruit and vegetable sector, which is also hard hit by the pandemic. Consequenceally, I denounce the inertia of the Dragon Government, already for many months, but I am not heard. The fruit and vegetable sector, in this case the sector of the Emilian pears, Italian excellence, can absolutely not wait for further answers and aid. My appeal is also that of farmers, but at the moment it has remained a dead letter. Now is the time to act. Minister Patuanelli finally says where to stand, whether from that of small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises, the beating heart of national agriculture and of Made in Italy, whose protests are made every day more vibrant, or if he wants to continue to be on the side of the big groups of the sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u124	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, Adelina Sejdini is the dead woman by throwing herself from Ponte Garibaldi on 6 November here in Rome. Adelina Sejdini has met several of us here, because she came to bring her testimony during the cognitive investigation into the phenomenon of prostitution in 1a. She came in spite of her very precarious health, despite an invasive type C3 cancer, despite the chemotherapy she was subjected to and despite the bilateral mastectomy she had just suffered at the time of her presence here. It came because - these are his words - until my last breath I will give my contribution to the fight against trafficking because I come from what I call the hell of prostitution. Who was Adelina Sejdini we do not learn from the newspapers, but from her living words and from her testimony. At the age of seventeen and a half I was seized by force and still as my mother had done to me. I was forced to get in a car and taken to a bunker, the underground ones that are used in the countries where there is war, where I was raped by a group of people. After that, they took me to a house, then to a camp and sold me from band to band with destination "prostitution in Italy," where I arrived aboard a dinghy, on which there were many other girls. Before I get to the dinghy, though, I want to remember the torture camp. In that camp there were so many girls who were tortured and raped, all destined for the same dinghy. On that dinghy was also the Albanian Police who, patting us on the shoulders, recommended us to make a lot of money when we arrived in Italy. I ended up prostitutes in Varesotto. I have suffered the hell of torture and beating, so much so that I still carry the scars on my body: I have one on my right leg that made me open a deep cut with the knife and put salt in it, then tie myself and finally take a cold shower. The Varesotto Police came every day to ask me who put me there and to tell me that they could help me, but I was afraid to trust them because I associated their uniform with that of the Albanian Police. One day, however, I decided to do so, rebelling against a hell of slavery and torture, but I did so only after four years. Thanks to my complaint ten girls were released, 40 were arrested, 80 were reported and all were sentenced to 15 to 20 years in prison. So I said to myself: since life is so beautiful, especially if you are free to choose and do what you want, then so many other girls could be free to choose. I have, therefore, made a mission of it and, in collaboration with the Forces of Order, I have saved numerous. Prostitution in our territory - I say ours even if I was not born in Italy, but I feel Italian and part of Italian society - sees more than 120,000 women victims of trafficking. I can say that both as a former victim of the prostitution racket and as an activist. The question must be stopped and I address my request and this plea to those who have the power to do something. How to stop the question? For example, sanctioning customers. As for prostitution on Italian territory, no woman can prostitute herself, even if she wants to. Some people talk about legalizing brothels and so-called red areas. If I were still a slave today, I'd be afraid someone would put a bomb in my house against my family and I'd be in that whorehouse. So my exploiters would take the money while the state collects the taxes. I, like any other woman, expect from those who represent the State - I am referring to the institutions, the Government and those who have power - to offer me dignified opportunities. I do not support any party - I swear to God - but I tell you that changing the so-called Merlin law by eliminating the crime of aiding prostitution means giving freedom to organized crime. In fact, if the uniformed angels - so I call the police and, in general, all the members of the Forces of the Order - manage to start an initial investigation to nail the criminals who exploit thousands of girls is precisely thanks to the crime of aiding prostitution. So, I say no to the opening of brothels and the repeal of the crime of aiding prostitution. In conclusion, President Adelina says again: I strongly appeal to those who have the power to do something for these girls. Prostitution in Italy is already not a crime. What do you want to legalize? Slavery? Those who want to prostitute themselves by damages can go and pay taxes, but they don't. In conclusion, I swear to God that if I'm here today it's to tell you that personally I've suffered all kinds of torture and those that I've suffered are suffering all the girls. Do something for these girls, don't let the slavery of prostitution be legalized and brothels opened. If my doctor were to tell me tomorrow that I was going to die and ask me to make one last wish, I would say that my wish is to stop the prostitution question that leads to human trafficking. I'm not just saying that, but I really do. The question must be stopped with sanctions to customers, because they are aware of it. This is Adelina Sejdini's appeal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u125	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-378.ana.u126	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 16 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.27 p.m.
