ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2353, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during yesterday's sitting the general debate took place and Articles 1 and 2 were approved in the text approved by the House of Deputies, on which the Government raised the question of trust. Before we proceed to the final vote, pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the beginning of the sitting, referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 9.50 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.39 a.m. and resumed at 9.51 p.m.) The session is resumed. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2395, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would ask the President of the first standing Commission, Senator Parrini, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u6	Mr President, the first Commission received the measure in the late afternoon of yesterday. We were able to vote on the agendas, which amounted to 22, but not to deal with the vote on the amendments. The measure therefore arrives in this Chamber without the Commission being able to finish its work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Parrini's report, the draft law No 2395, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u10	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Yesterday, as you all know, we finished voting on the reform on criminal justice rather late. This morning, at 8.30 a.m., the Commission met: honestly, I did not even have time to read the text that you are asking us to vote on today. I would like to know, Mr President, first of all whether it is distributed, whether we can see it and whether it is possible to have at least five or ten minutes to read it, I do not say that we are discussing it, because it has already been understood that nothing is being discussed in this Senate, but at least to know what you are voting on.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u13	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to re-establish the truth of the facts, since I chaired yesterday's sitting. We ended the sitting at 5.45 p.m., so we have certainly not been late. The fact that Senator Crucioli has done a great deal of amending work, by tabling amendments, presupposes that the text has seen it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u14	I do not go into the substance of the political controversy, so let us proceed further, partly because the timetable was known and had been approved in its entirety by the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the bill of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 111. I have submitted a question for a preliminary ruling, together with my colleague Mr Martelli, because for access control in schools, managers can have - instead of the currently available verification apps - a software platform to check the EU's Covid certificates, issued under Regulation (EU) 2021/953. The platform uses the tax codes to verify which workers are in possession of a valid certificate and therefore in compliance with the requirements of Decree-Law No 111. In schools, however, there has been a breach of data managed by the platform through which managers have access to the staff list and can verify at any time whether or not they have a valid certificate; this means that, when employees are absent, invalid certificates implicitly provide information that Regulation (EU) 2021/953 prevents sharing, in particular those related to the vaccination status. In fact, teachers, when they have their days off, are likely not to have a valid and active certificate if they use swabs instead of being vaccinated or healed. The first week in which this information is available could only mean, indifferently, that the duration of vaccination or recovery is over. However, when this is repeated in the following week, there is no doubt that this person has not been vaccinated. Pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2021/953, the certificate must not provide a vaccination status and this also applies when the EU certificate is used for domestic purposes (excerpt from the attached letter of the European Commission, Directorate-General for Justice and Consumers). In this context, Member States may actually use the EU Digital Covid Certificate for national purposes, but they are required to provide a legal basis in national law. This national law must respect the Union law on data protection and the principles of effectiveness, necessity and proportionality. Another problem is the risk that the platform may store data, a practice prohibited by Regulation (EU) 2021/953, which only allows QR code read-only applications. It is recalled that the platform checks the status of the worker's certificate through their tax code or health card and it is therefore unlikely that this process will not end up collecting and storing data. Moreover, it is not clear where the servers of the aforementioned platform are located, who manages them and to what information such subjects would have access to. If a school manager can presumably see the interface only to the extent that this is necessary for the control of school employees, programmers and software managers reading the health card may instead have access to a lot of sensitive information, without complying with any of the requirements of Articles 6 and 9 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the processing of personal data. As anticipated by the European Commission's letter, Directorate for Justice and Consumer Affairs, it is clear that the domestic use of Covid certificates is permitted only if it complies with the General Data Protection Regulation. If there has been an infringement of the latter which cannot be remedied (and school managers are now fully aware of which employees are vaccinated and which are not), the use of the Covid certifications in ways that do not comply with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 must be immediately interrupted, due to the breach that occurred, no longer recoverable. It is possible that the European Commission, which has already published the data breach in schools and in view of the need for compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), will prevent further use of the platform. If this mode of control is not legitimate, it is not even allowed to discuss and convert a decree-law authorising the use of such technologies, which would inevitably end up end up supporting a method of data collection contrary to the relevant rules. For these reasons, with the proposal for a preliminary ruling under consideration, it is requested that the Senate should not examine Decree-Law No 111 of 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u16	Since no one is asking to speak, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will start by taking a look at what the green pass is supposed to be. In the communication... (Brussio).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u18	Colleagues, the general discussion is under way. I would ask you to observe a certain aspect and a volume of voice that allows everyone to speak and listen. Of course, it is also possible not to attend the debate. I would ask you, therefore, to take your place and also to avoid gatherings in front of the government's benches. Senator Castaldi, please, we are calling our colleagues to take their seats and so I call you, too, because I know that this is a point of reference for this House. The Presidency has already referred the senators to the government's benches several times, but they are all present equally, without absolutely accepting the advice and suggestions. Senator Drago will make her speech and the Presidency will consider how to direct the work of this House. Mr. President, when the government listens... Senator Marcucci, please release the government benches. Senator Drago, perhaps she could be the bearer of the invitation also to her group colleagues to allow the intervention to take place. Please, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u19	My colleagues have allowed this to happen, and I thank them publicly for their intervention. As I said, I would like to start by considering what public opinion thinks is the green pass or, better, when it is released. Erroneously it is used as a synonym for vaccine: vaccine yes or vaccine no. In fact, there are three options: to have completed the vaccination cycle; to have been positive for Covid, with a vaccination to completion; to verify that they have been subjected to the swab. Being our democratic system, as well as free vaccination is granted, the same should certainly be granted to those who, even by choice, decide not to undergo the vaccine. The decree-law in question deals, for example, with the school sector, but with some difficulty in reading. I had the opportunity to assess Decree-Law No 111 in the bicameral committee on regional issues, where we expressed our opinion, and I also expressed my opposition there. In fact, this text has also been incorporated into the Chamber by Decree-Law No. 122, which therefore makes changes. Having said that, what I would like to stress is that the imposition of green passes is absolutely questionable not only in the school context, but in general. Even, a five-day limit is granted to teachers to get into order, perhaps with the presentation of the green pass after having submitted to a buffer of any kind. The result for the worker is suspension from work. I have seen that in the version which has now come to us, the limit of fifteen days is set as a period of notice even for the replacement of the teacher. In addition, it is not well explained that the school manager should take the lead in those days. The substitute, that is, on what day should he be called? The first, the second or the third? And under what contract? The question that I think most serious is that it was considered in this way - we are talking about a publication on 6 August - to put preventive activities in the field of the dissemination of Covid in the educational field. The government has wasted time in the previous months devoting itself - for example - to the reform of the higher technical institutes (ITS), but it has not undertaken to put in place a procedure of safe access to the new school year. President. - I shall conclude with a passage on transport. There are exemptions for the use of naval means for the crossing of the Strait and I have now seen integrated the extension of this exemption to another area of Italy. But this is absurd because in the summer we had in Sicily the whole of Italy, which we naturally welcomed with pleasure. Sicily, however, was the first region to be declared a yellow zone. The parameters used to evaluate the percentage of contagion are absolutely questionable, because we group in a single territory a population that is not only Sicilian. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u20	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u21	Mr President, I must give you a feeling that there are five Members in this debate, of whom only three are from the Brothers of Italy. This morning's debate commits the country - you call it that, I call it Nation - and citizens in the exercise of their daily freedoms, our economic, commercial and industrial activities and requires a minimum of debate on the possibility in Italy to express itself. Today's news is that health care workers, in order to be able to go on television to express themselves - of course only those who use some position of doubt with respect to mainstream or vulgate, which must be uncritically shared and never reasoned - must receive authorization of the structures to which they grab for salary. Of course, some Italians may like this because, in fact, the fact that there have been virus stars filling the evenings of our televisions has saturated the ability to listen to Italians. This has also been the case for our fellow Members. This is the picture and I address the presidency of the Senate of the Republic. It is the framework of a way that reminds me of a picture of Magritte: nothing normal, nothing natural, five votes of confidence in 48 hours, twenty votes of confidence since this Government took office, which sees the strength or, better, the weakness to collect more than 90% of the Members of Parliament of the two branches of Parliament. There is no discussion about measures that pertain to the daily lives of citizens and that are imposed with an originality, with respect to the European and world panorama, which sees Italy as the only country in the world (except four nations that we certainly cannot count among those of the so-called industrialized West) to make mandatory a non-healthy document in order to be able to work, that is, to exercise the first right provided for in our Constitution. Then, with respect to all this, I see a situation in which we are registered this morning in five to speak in general discussion, two of which are Brothers of Italy and only three are not members of that Group. This is something that affects the decorum of the institutions. [[Applause]] It is not a matter of principle or merit, but it is a matter of decency: we are all unsatisfying in dealing with a subject such as the one we are discussing in this way. On the substance, Mr President, I would like to refer to the debate - but it has had, at least in appearance, other characteristics - which we have carried out on the first measure that has been submitted to us concerning the issue of the vaccination passport. I refer mainly to Mr Sileri's speech, to one part of him in particular, in which I think it is absolutely important that we talk about a diagnostic content of the green pass. Sileri gave an absolutely interesting reading, which I deeply agree with. I repeat that we criticize this document only for the part that concerns its mandatory nature and I repeat, colleagues, if need be, that we are talking about something that no other civil country does, namely making the document compulsory in order to be able to work and live. So, it's not us Martians, but you are, you're the ones who populate the famous painting of Magritte, and not us. We are filling a debate with normality which would otherwise be surreal. If there were not the Brothers of Italy Group, President, this debate, as well as unbecoming, would be surreal, because you claim to affirm a normal that normal is not, since no one does this. I'm going back to talking about merit. My colleague, Mr Sileri, spoke of an important matter, which concerns the diagnostic content of the green pass, that is to say the part that grabs the so-called swabs. You've put a hand on one aspect in outlining the second measure. Moreover, there is also the fashion of making the measures tasty and mouthful, as we say in my area; I like to speak so that we understand each other. There is the fashion of pulling out the measures a little at a time, as it passes - one would say - to see what happens, when behind them there are industrial sectors and economic activities that must be organised; daily lives that must be realized; people who bring their children to school, people who have to organize the day, women who work. Is the fashion of pulling out the measures one piece at a time a state attitude with the capital letter S? Is it not, however, a sloppy and totally inadequate attitude when we are going through a major economic, health and above all social emergency? Let's get back to the tampons. At the mouth of the representative of the Government, who is, moreover, informed representative, because he holds an important position in the Department of Health and does so with passion and competence - and it is not a pleasing; many other things he says wrong, but this said it right - we are told that the green pass is important because it has a diagnostic content, represented by swabs. Well, this is something we are telling ourselves, President - and you and your colleagues have been witnessing - since March 2020. The virus, the pandemic, the current medical condition of great emergency is characterized by a very important percentage of people who have no symptoms, but that is infected and contagious. The vaccine must be done, because it saves life. And enough with the story that anyone who asks a question should be labeled as no vax. You suck when you do this, because I want to talk, I have an obligation to talk and to say what I think and I'm not a no vax. You are no vax, who claim to treat Italians as subjects. [[Applause]] I take them as citizens, not subjects. [[Applause]] Since March 2020 we have been telling ourselves that 400,000-500,000 swabs have to be made per day; the most important countries in Europe have, and we have not. I want to know why. I want the government representative in the rebuttal to tell us why we don't do tampons, since he, first, says something sacrosanct. Why do we still continue to think of charging tampons even to those who, out of necessity perhaps or because it is in that middle belt between those who are exempted and those who have had diseases, do not feel like making the vaccine? If I have had a stroke, President, I think about it ten times before making the vaccine; having the chance to do the swab, I want to do the swab. Why do I have to pay for it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. I'm finishing, ma'am. We have all the time in the world, because there are only five of us. Don't worry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have ten minutes and I'm already extending them. Mr Zaffini (FdI). I'm done. I just want to know from my colleague Sileri why there is no one inside that Ministry who wakes up in the morning and says to do 500,000 swabs today, to track the damn virus, to see where it is, to identify variants and outbreaks, to practice home care and attack the pandemic even with care and not only with obligations, even with the containment of economic activities, that still exist. I want to see from the government representative what's going on in this country. And I'm not a no vax: I'm a pro vax, I made the vaccine and I tell everyone to do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u22	Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u23	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law under discussion intervenes with urgent measures for the safe exercise of school activities, from schools to universities, social and cultural activities and transport. These are clear but fundamental choices to counter the pandemic, thus guaranteeing the regular performance of educational services and teaching in presence throughout the country, thus balancing the constitutional right to health with that to education. We know that, in part of the public, the announced measures have given rise to a number of concerns - we have also heard a few moments ago an expression of these concerns - I believe above all because they were presented in the past outside an organic and coherent speech. The measure under consideration - in my opinion - fills these limits to a large extent, proposing without any means of asking the country for a shared effort to overcome this phase of transition from an emerging situation - characterized by worrying numbers of contagions from Covid-19, hospitalizations that made our hospital structures overwhelmed and in difficulty in guaranteeing sufficient beds and a truly exorbitant number of deaths - to recovery, lockdown, with the total closure of commercial, productive, social and cultural activities, to the progressive resumption of daily life. We have learned that all this cannot happen through free all and that the emergency is not completely overcome. Efforts for mass vaccination have been decisive in ensuring an effective protective shield, even if not decisive in the presence of variants that are still capable of striking. precautionary measures, such as the use of masks and disinfectants, interpersonal space is still essential, and we know that. For this reason, the progressive use of the green pass tool is an appropriate prudential certification in order to be able to live in a situation of relative security and hope for a return to normality. The school has given a great test of responsibility, both in the middle of the pandemic and today, with the resumption of the lessons in presence. Allow me to say that the difference, compared to the past school year, is that, despite the efforts of Minister Azzolina to ensure the opening of schools with the teaching in presence, without the vaccination plan carried out during 2021 and the consequent immunity of flock would have been impossible to reopen. However, it should be noted to the teaching staff that they have been able to cope with the difficulties related to distance learning, which has deprived teachers of the essential human relationship with students and forced them to new educational paths with online platforms. They have been able to cope with the situation in an admirable way, guaranteeing an excellent and even excellent quality of training in some cases. We must thank them for this commitment, which has kept the school community alive. Today, even with this decree-law, it is possible to resume normal school activities, fulfilling the safety requirements to contain the risk of contagion. The first weeks seem encouraging and, except for sporadic cases, are not critical. It's too important that things go on like this. Distance learning, computer aids, multimedia aids can complement didactics, but they can never replace a school community that lives in relationships, emotions, sociality and sharing. An organized response, shared and clear in the objectives of the school world, from students to teachers, ATA staff, management, with respect to the risks still present can, indeed, represent an important moment of formative growth. I very much hope, as a former teacher, that we will be able to seize these opportunities, but the Government must also do its part and seize these opportunities. The continuing emergency from Covid-19 imposes the downsizing of the classes, in the name of social distancing, but the restart we will have to think seriously at the end of the overcrowded classes, because the overcrowding of the classes is the first cause of the abandonment and the school avoidance: on this there are important studies, carried out both at national level, and Region by Region. This is an important fact, as well as another extremely significant fact, which leads to so-called bad education, is the demotivation of the teaching staff, on issues not only related to salaries, but also and above all to the fact that, in recent decades, they have lost that social role that they have always had in our country. Of course, these precautionary measures must apply not only in school environments, but also outside, in children's play nights with friends, in sports activities, in meeting centres and in the family. This is an examination of maturity that the situation imposes on us. The transport system represents another fundamental moment: avoiding as much as possible assembly will depend not only on the ability of the children to respect the anti-Covid rules, but also on the organization of a rational and functional transport plan, regional and municipal, that avoid overcrowding and is able to set up an adequate bus park. The world of culture, as well as that of school and sports activities, has also been strongly affected by the pandemic. Article 4 of the Decree-Law in question contains provisions on interpersonal distance in performances, among viewers who wish to attend cultural events. We must guarantee the presence, contingent but not too much, because the world of culture needs a vital relationship between artist and public; between writer and reader, in the events of presentation of books and reading, since these moments are fundamental to realize the virtuous circle that leads to understanding, knowledge, growth and development of culture. I believe that the decree-law under consideration gives us the opportunity to walk on the right path. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u24	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u25	Mr President, we are about to vote on yet another decree-law which restricts parliamentary activity to a debate which is only pro-forma, since in the Commission the dossier of amendments has not even been opened and everything has been cleared with the usual haste and care, when we could have used at least all morning, all day today or even tomorrow, to examine the measure. There were only about 70 amendments, which could have been dealt with quietly, but that's okay, because it's good for you and it has to be good for the citizens and for us, who are here to suffer your bullies. The measure now arrives in the Chamber; it is yet another abuse of citizens: the green pass extended to school staff, which compresses the rights of school workers, but also of students, in a totally useless way to contain contagions. We know that already more than 5,000 students are in distance teaching, and the very fact that they ended up in distance teaching with the proper functioning of the green pass should raise at least one question about the appropriateness, adequacy and proportionality of a measure that compresses fundamental rights. What's the end of that? No one. There is no guarantee of contagion, no guarantee of the health safety of people, precisely because clearly such safety cannot be entrusted to a vaccine that - we already know - does not contain contagions, does not immunize nor does it do so for the entire duration of the green pass. We know that the green pass lasts twelve months and the vaccine - according to the same liars approved by AIFA - covers a maximum period of nine months. So, we're forcing people cured by Covid, even with high antibodies, to perform doses at their own risk and danger; we're forcing them, we're forcing them; we're extorting a consensus that these people aren't going to give on useless health treatment. If a subject believes in the treatment, well, he will do it for personal protection; but if he does not believe it, since he still fails to contain the chain of contagions, it is not right and it is appropriate that he do so. Statistical data on contagions that are always stated on these products in terms of effects-risk-benefits are not replaceable to the clinical studies that are lacking; therefore, you can't tell people to vaccination otherwise they can't go to work or can't study, they can't attend university after they also paid taxes. It is said to university students that they do not even have access to the possibility of obtaining a university residence. This is happening. There is even a denial of access to university residence under the ISEE and, therefore, of participation in the notices. The innarrable in this country is happening for a measure that is not used to contain contagions. What, then, will be the next step? I ask you, President, and the Government: what will it be, given that, in any case, with 10% more than the school staff vaccinated and with the ATA staff still equipped with green passes, the contagions circulate the same, the classes close and you still go to DAD? What will be the next step? Are you going to pick up our children at home to force them into health care that hurts them more than good? That's what I want to understand. I'd like undersecretary Sileri to answer that question. Here we are proceeding by step, by rake, and not depending on the people to whom, on the basis of the benefit-risk ratio, it is more appropriate to prescribe a certain therapy rather than another. No. On the basis of economic coercion, all the rakeable is being rakered; therefore, we proceed by step: first the health care staff, then the teaching staff and ATA; Now all the active workers, and then what will happen? Will the child's turn come, by chance, with all the adverse events you're picking up? Do not tell the truth about these products. You don't mean it, but there are official data from EudraVigilance reporting - on August 28 - that there were over two million adverse effects and more than 23,000 deaths per vaccine. These too must be included in the budget. You can't go on like this. You've crossed the guard line. So, I'm telling you to take a step sideways, because you're gonna go through history. Take a step sideways, because you're really exaggerating. Besides, the teachers are vexed at the workplace, because your platform reports sensitive data, relating precisely to the status of the teacher's green pass, as visible to the school manager even outside the time of service, so that he knows if one is vaccinated or not and therefore knows his sensitive data. He could not know him, because the manager has the obligation to verify the status of the teacher only during his working hours, neither before nor after. Yet, no one cares about this, but there will be many appeals. They will have to destroy you of appeals. We have to go to the Constitutional Court, assuming that there is someone left in Italy who is not part of this truly incredible system, which unfortunately has involved everyone. We have the doctors of the shielded vaccine hubs, who practically do not take responsibility for the adverse events that take place, so clearly everyone is subjected to vaccination, because there is no reason in the world that can exempt someone from vaccination, in spite of the circulars issued by Minister Hope that do not exempt anyone. Even those who have had adverse events at the first dose may still make the heterologous dose. There is no reason to be exempted: patients with autoimmune diseases, patients with cancer therapy and anything else. There are also doctors in this House. I wonder if these doctors, those who vote for the measure, have a conscience. Do they have a conscience? Do they remember the Hippocrates oath, or did they leave it behind the moment they swore an oath to the Big Pharma, or this government? It is a government that conditions health policy under the table and then scouts through doctors, which has already clearly put itself before the choice: either they adapt to this health protocol, or they are disbarred by the order of doctors. [[Recalls of the President]] Thank you, ma'am. I'm done. Thank you, on behalf of all Italians. Thank you, criminals! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u26	Senator Garnet, you force me to censor this last statement of yours. I did not interrupt it, even when we were at the very limit, but the expression it used is not allowed in this House, even in the heated debate. This is a formal censorship. Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u27	Mr President, it is intended that in this House, even today on this subject, I as a doctor should intervene after a teacher of letters, with obviously scientific and health ideas that are somewhat confused. Maybe we could talk about Dante for a dialogue, but it's hard to think about elucubrations disguised as data. The scored data must be analyzed and, if 5,000 students are in DAD, it is because however there are thousands of school workers still not vaccinated. In Turin a class was placed in DAD because the parents, waiting for the result of buffer, then positive result, sent their children to school, with obvious consequences. The government is taking action in a targeted manner, work in progress. This is why the small steps that have been mentioned above: work in progress with CTS and Regions to protect health and secure productivity. It is in the eyes of all, in addition to the economic data and the rebound of GDP, the change of pace - for example from Arcuri to Son - impressed by President Draghi, strongly wanted, first, by our President Silvio Berlusconi. And allow me to share with you my indignation at the insane request of Milan's usual prosecutor to ask for a psychiatric evaluation for him; outrage, unfortunately, not shared by the whole of Parliament. Returning to the topic on the agenda, important is the turning point for the school for teaching in presence. EUR 100 million was allocated for screening; finally there is a green pass obligation for public and private workers as well. I thank Minister Brunetta because it is important to reduce the smart working, which has created many economic problems for all the induced catering in all cities. The change of pace is important, because the increase in rules that led to the extension of the green pass has led to an increase in the demand and booking of vaccinations. This is useful to convince the undecided, even if, rightly - as many have pointed out - it would serve more care in the information, that they are simple. It would thus avoid hearing so many castroneries, unfortunately also in this House. In any case, the irreducible pockets - like maybe someone here in the Senate - that do not want to vaccinate, pay for the swab. That vaccines work is the data to confirm that if there is still a need. We should also understand - as I have already had the opportunity to express - the concept that there is no vaccine in the world and drug in the world that guarantee 100% functionality. So, there's no point in saying, give us proof. You're not Saint Thomas. The proof, on the other hand, of how freedom the vaccine is is, in the first place, that the hospitalization in intensive care for vaccinated persons has fallen by 95%. However, the test is demonstrated by the great adhesion of young people, who have rushed to vaccinate to recover their lives, their freedom; to resume playing sports without having to make swabs every time they entered the playgrounds. We had little time to examine the measure, but a great deal of work was done in the House. 13 amendments by Forza Italia were accepted in the Commission: the equivalence of quarantine days to the days of hospitalization; the ski season was restarted with the increase in the capacity of cable cars. Less virus circulation brings more health and a leap in GDP. I hope, however, that in the next decree some critical issues will already be resolved, which remain and which I have pointed out as observations in the Commission's opinion. These are: the extension of the green pass also to outside workers of hospitals, exactly as for schools and RSAs; review the limitations for places of culture, cinemas, theatres and sport; solve the computer malfunction, especially of the Regions, so citizens in order to get the green pass do not get it in real time. The problem of the return of people arriving from abroad and vaccinated with vaccines not recognized by the EMA must then be resolved, accepting the use of serological testing. I do not understand why the serological examination, considered essential for a pregnant woman, to check if she has developed antibodies for rubella, cannot also be used for Covid-19. I believe that we must also solve the problem of returning workers after 21 days. They must wait for the test results to return to work, while other people in quarantine, after twenty-one days, can move freely. Again, it must be ensured that the whole system is slimmer and that even people who have been vaccinated in other countries can get the green pass. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u28	Mr President, this time I will not complain that Parliament has had no way of dealing with this fundamental issue, but I would like to make it clear to everyone what is going on. While before the pandemic the government acted this way, it has always done so, but it was modest; instead, it is now really cheeky, indeed flaunted. Look at what happened between yesterday and today with respect to two reforms, two fundamental measures such as the one on criminal justice and this on the green pass, therefore on a passport that subordinates the possibility of working and basically living to vaccination or being able to afford swabs. Two measures of such fundamental cultural scope and practice have been examined by a completely deaf and mute Assembly. There was no discussion. It must be said that this, alas, is what large parts of society demand: at this moment the Government is doing nothing but what part of society is asking of it. This is authoritarianism, it is a very dangerous moment for our nation, because this government embodies exactly the will not to have any discussion. With fear for their own safety or for their own economic situation, a part of the country is asking this Government to do so, not to listen to oppositions and to pass over any dissonant voice, even at the cost of using propaganda that distorts the truth, always for good. Undersecretary Sileri was very clear when we first discussed the green pass for a few minutes. The representative of the government in the House of Parliament said that he had heard nonsense and that we all should have just said that the vaccine saves life. The government tells Parliament what to say. It would never have happened before this pandemic, just as it would never have happened that a reform such as the criminal one, which zeroes two key principles of our legal institutions, such as the separation of powers and equality of all citizens before the law (because this does the reform of Cartabia) was approved in absolute silence. In two days we have had proof that at the moment citizens are not interested in the rule of law, they just want to be reassured and the government is doing this, even if it does not tell the truth about scientific issues. All we need is the security semblance to go in the same direction. I leave you with a phrase that I think well embodies the spirit of this Government and these times: For all the even harder measures that the Government will take, we will put citizens in front of this dilemma: either accept them for a high spirit of patriotism or suffer them. This is basically the spirit of the green pass, but this phrase did not say Mario Draghi, but Mussolini [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u29	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2395 of the conversion of Decree-Law No 111 of 6 August 2021 into the text approved by the House of Deputies. (Cartels are displayed.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u31	I call on Senators Quaestors and Parliamentary assistants to have the cartels removed immediately. The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 111, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u34	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Madam President, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear from the outset that we in the Italian Group of the Viva-PSI Group have been saying for months: green pass is an instrument that gives freedom, it does not take away it. I would like to see the field cleared immediately by a fundamental misunderstanding that has been going on in recent weeks and which concerns certain political forces as we have also seen a few moments ago. You can't go against the mandatory green pass to access certain places, invoking an alleged violation of freedom, when at the moment it is the only instrument that can grant us more freedom. With the green pass we have us for first greater security, because we know that the people around us are vaccinated, have taken a swab or are healed by Covid. Above all, it provides a greater guarantee to others. Not to mention the fact that the green pass has been and continues to be the only way in which to share economically and socially. We should take joint action to extend its scope, not to reduce it, as we will at last do in the parliamentary classrooms. The measure that we are preparing to debate and vote today therefore marks another step in the direction that Italy Viva-PSI has been asking for for a long time. In fact, we intervene in one of the nerve sectors of the country, the school. As President Mattarella said a few days ago in a very clear and authoritative way, with the pandemic the school was among the first to have to close, but with vaccines this will no longer have to happen. Our children are probably among those who have suffered the most from the closures imposed by the pandemic emergency, have lost almost two years of school in presence and this has had dramatic consequences from too many points of view. Of course, distance learning worked as a buffer solution, adopted in an emerging period when there was certainly no means of reacting differently and the closure was perhaps the only possibility. But now the situation has changed and significantly improved, thanks to the extraordinary work done by the Government Dragons and, in particular, thanks to the vaccination plan managed by General Son. We are thus able to deal with the virus and protect ourselves from new closures, which we must absolutely avoid. Just as we must prevent the return to distance learning. We have the tools to reopen schools and universities safely, always clearly respecting the rules of distance and with the help of masks. Distance learning has provided useful support to avoid losing the entire school year, but it must necessarily be framed within a limited timeframe. In addition to highlighting, as we have seen, inequalities between pupils not equipped in the same way as regards technological means, distance learning hides a number of risks. There have been disastrous psychological consequences, difficulties in learning, especially on the part of pupils who already had difficulties. Greater difficulties also for parents who had to shoulder an educational burden not indifferent. There is also the most psychological aspect of the question: the school is made up of sociality, of relationships that are established between pupils and between pupils and teachers, of activities that are shared. We cannot allow these aspects to be put to the top of the agenda once again. That is why finally with this provision there is a return to school as a community, so defines it the decree-law that we are preparing to convert today. That community that finally becomes possible today. The focus is not only on school and didactic activity, but also, for example, on training and internship activities in the higher technical institutes, for which priority must be given. On the other hand, staff have a duty to do their part and above all because they work in a crucial environment such as school. In this sense, there is also provision for the extension of the vaccination obligation in residential, social-assistant and social-health facilities until the end of the vaccination obligation. Obviously the ratio of such a prediction is to preserve people who are in a situation of fragility. With regard to sporting events and places of culture such as theatres, cinemas and outdoor shows, great steps are being taken to extend capacity. Let me say, however, that we need even more courage, especially if we continue with the vaccination plan and the extension of the green pass as has already been done in the workplace these days. In this sense, Italy Viva-PSI today presented an agenda that calls for a full capacity for all places of culture, entertainment and sport and - I add - also for those of fun for young people, such as discos. We must make this commitment not only because there are sectors that are still severely penalized at the moment, but also in order to avoid that, especially in order to meet the winter season, private parties and events are organized in which it is not possible to verify compliance with the safety rules. We know what happened this summer too: there is no control at parties and in private homes where children rightly meet to be together. So let's remove this hypocritical veil. I thank the Government, President Draghi and undersecretary Costa who are demonstrating a great ability to listen to the whole sector of culture, entertainment and sport. I am sure that we will soon come to the right solution. I think we can also understand the meaning of the measure from this point of view. From the Government has been made a choice, which Italy Viva-PSI strongly supports, aimed at allowing a return to freedom through the instrument of the green pass, at least as long as it will last the state of emergency. On this we cannot and must not have doubts as a majority. On the contrary, we must act unitedly and move also to be a good example as representatives of the institutions. It seems to me a very good signal that just yesterday it was finally decided to extend the green pass also to enter the Chamber of Deputies, as we will - I hope very soon - in the Senate. We have been asking for this for a long time as a party and we will finally come to this right measure, because there must be no difference between us and the citizens. The green pass is the only tool that is giving us back our freedoms and will allow us not to close the school anymore. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the measure under consideration by Italy Viva-PSI and I would like to address in particular all the other parliamentary groups: let us stop pursuing alleged electoral consensus and think of responsible choices for our country and in particular for our young people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u37	Mr Malan (FdI). Mr President, representative of the Government, over the past few weeks a country in the European Union has taken drastic measures and changes in the management of the pandemic concerning the freedom of citizens. These measures have led to extraordinary results: a huge drop in infection and a reduction in deaths to almost zero. This country is not Italy and has not introduced obligations, that elsewhere there are not, but it has abolished almost all the restrictions that it had previously introduced regarding access to the premises, the use of masks and so on. This country is Denmark. Then we must debunk the myth that the more we harm the Italians, the more we limit their freedom and the better things go. This is not the case; many cases abroad tell us that this is not the case. Sweden has never introduced any lockdown measures and has, both historically (i.e. during this year and a half of pandemics) and in recent times, a number of deaths compared to the population that is between half and much less than half of what has been in Italy. We must remember that society and human beings live in a complex way. There is not only one aspect; it is not said that if we implement heavier, more unreasonable measures, or otherwise different from those of all other countries, we are necessarily better placed. Some cases would almost seem to say otherwise, because life is not just limitation, but it is a complex thing. Italy, with the decree-law that we are hastily talking about, introduced a distorted use of the green pass, born to simplify the movements between one country of the European Union to another - and on this we have always been favorable - but now used even to work: it is frankly heavy for a Republic that in the first article of the Constitution says it is founded on work and that in another article introduces the right-duty of work among the protected rights, along with many others that have been limited these days. A balanced and reasonable approach is needed. We supported the issue of vaccines - it was supported by our colleagues from Brothers of Italy who spoke before me - and we reiterate that every type of study and approach tells us that vaccines greatly reduce the possibility of infection and the occurrence of events such as hospitalizations and deaths. We've always said that. But, like every medicine and every drug, it's not that there is more and the better. There are many very useful medicines that save life: for example, cortisone in certain conditions is indispensable and saves lives immediately. But it is not that more cortisone is taken and the better; it is not that if you give cortisone even to those who do not need it you help him. Then we must have a balanced approach. How is it possible that Italy, which is among the eight most vaccinated countries in the European Union, and therefore also takes precedence outside the European Union, and which is below average in terms of mortality, wants to be ahead of all the others, introducing the green pass measure, which not only clearly puts serious restrictions on all those who are not vaccinated, but is also a burden on the vaccinated? It is said to be freedom; very well, it is freedom for the vaccinated. Let's talk about it: a year ago you could do a number of things without showing anything, while now you have to perform this green pass all the time. There are people who have technical problems; there are Italians abroad who have been vaccinated with foreign vaccines that are not recognized in Italy and cannot have them; there are a number of problems that have not been solved. You don't care what the government, the state, that doesn't do these things. It is an instrument that hides the very serious shortcomings that have occurred and which we denounce from the outset on the issue of transport, schools, public offices and everything that is dependent on the public. The overcrowded classes from last year to this year have increased, have not decreased. [[Applause]] What has the government been doing these months? Senator Zaffini reminds me that there are 4,000 more than last year, 4,000 situations where infection is undoubtedly easier. Nothing has been done about public transport. The same limitation of capacity - which is not monitored or controlled and, therefore, is of no use - is applied almost everywhere by reducing the space that can be occupied. As a result, people may be 20 percent less, but they are piled up exactly as before, if not more. As for the same application of the green pass, a few days ago it happened that a person started from a locality by taking a local train, free from the green pass, and then arrived in a big city and took a long-distance train, where it takes the green pass. Do you take contagion from one place to another, or do the great scientists consultants, who are very much paid by the government, find that on local trains the virus does not go up, while it only climbs on long-distance trains? What's the matter? There are other issues that should be remembered. It is obvious that there are many entrepreneurs, private citizens and all those who are responsible for some structure that say that, fortunately, with the green pass there are rules and are free of responsibility. Firstly, we have presented an agenda which wanted to make it clear that the employer and the person responsible for a structure that complies with all the rules and applies all the rules required by the Government cannot in any case be held responsible for any type of infection occurring within the structure. The government rejected it because this too was not guaranteed. Even if all the rules apply, there is still this problem, because since the beginning of the pandemic, Minister Hope, or those who collaborated with him, has established that the contagions in the workplace are equal to accidents at work, so obviously the employer risks very heavily being held responsible with all the consequences of the case. Secondly, if we compare it with last year, we are not much better off with the freedom to move and to do things. This does not depend on the fact that the situation is better. Leaving aside the last week that might be a case, but observing the last three weeks, today compared to a year ago we have from double to triple of the contagions and from triple to quadruple of deaths, but the government has decided well to bring back in presence the students of middle schools and high school. The figures, however, are those of last year and, indeed, are worse, despite the 41 million vaccinees. So, it's the government that risks going through what they don't believe in the effectiveness of vaccines. We need information and transparency in decisions. Many years ago a political leader said: We ourselves or make decisions or carefully examine events: convinced that it is not the discussions that damage actions, but the not drawing the necessary knowledge by means of discussion before coming to the execution of what must be done. That's what Pericles said two thousand five hundred years ago. Today, however, we are acting in the name of haste, which comes from no European provision requiring us to approve this rule today rather than in two weeks' time. All the various measures on which the Government is obsessive and compulsive about the issue of trust are adopted and pursued on the basis of certain interests, which on the Covid issue have manifested themselves in an extraordinary way, with scandals, masks, advice, wheelchairs of which we know nothing. The Government does not respond; they want to carry things forward without transparency and this deprives the Italians of the confidence on certain things that the Government asks. Instead you have to have confidence, but also do everything you need; you can't just talk about the vaccine and do nothing about everything else. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u40	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party's opinion on this measure... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u41	I ask my colleagues from Brothers of Italy to observe the same behavior they requested during the general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u42	Mr Parrini (PD). I said that the Democratic Party's opinion on this measure is extremely positive. We know that we are faced with a measure which is part of a package of measures, which has a long history and which - I would like to say this, because often we tend to remove this fact, especially in the speeches of the opposition - has proved to be effective and has done good to our country. Today in international comparisons Italy does not disfigure, for vaccination rate and for many other parameters. I believe that this is important and should be highlighted; it would be wrong to underestimate it. Why did this happen? I believe because we have had a whole, even with different governments, work that has been crossed by a red thread of consistency. The consistency of the rigor; a rigor not exhibited, but with a firmness that has allowed us not to wander into the most dangerous curves and to make the right decisions, inspired by the precautionary principle. We have all moved to an unknown land (the pandemic itself is in itself an unknown land) and we have done so in my opinion with balance. These balance elements are also reflected in the measure that we are about to convert. Of course, I cannot, especially as President of the 1st Commission, fail to express the regret that I did not, as the Senate, have time to examine the measure in detail, as we would have liked. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that this has happened; it has also happened in the other House and not only here. This must be the subject of a reflection which must be made on the contribution that the Chambers as a whole can make to the adoption of the measures. However, it seems to me that, in the series of measures that have been taken, this decree-law also indicates a direction of march that can be shared in transport, in school, in social and social housing and in university. I note in these decisions a dose of courage, which is exactly what we need to avoid making false steps today in the fight against the pandemic, which is not won at all. It is necessary that the level of our guard and of everyone remains very high and that the vigilance in Parliament and outside Parliament remains very strong, because there are still objectives to be achieved. I was saying about the good results we have achieved in vaccinations, but there are still very high levels of vaccination, which must be overcome and that we must do everything we can to overcome. From this point of view, it is no coincidence that we incardinated today in our Commission - in this case we will have plenty of time to examine it, fortunately - the last decree-law approved by the Council of Ministers, which extends the use of the green pass to the world of work from 15 October. It is not by chance - I said - that the measure we are converting has been added to others and probably more will be added to it. The consideration I want to make, even after listening to a few speeches here today, is that we must move on this unknown ground, but we begin to know a little more about it, with a great sense of responsibility, with great rigour, without any ambiguity or uncertainty, without strange and misleading messages. Mr President, by participating in debates and debates, I have come to this conclusion: I am similarly alarmed by those who claim to be no vax and those who say: 'I am not no vax', but 'I am no vax'; in fact, I have discovered that those of 'I am no vax', but 'I am almost more insidious than 'no vax'. I say this because there must be no ambiguity and I think that all the political forces of the majority need to give a proof of compactness in favour of the measures of the Government, from the massive participation in the vote for the conversion of this measure. We cannot support misunderstandings of the solidarity of the political forces around the choices of the government. This is something we absolutely cannot afford. From this point of view, the Democratic Party is firmly on the ground of full, convinced, total support for the choices that have been made; it is on the side of rigour and knows that without rigour we would have gone through many more problems and we would not have managed to control the contagions, as it did. And let me say that the rigour that we believe is necessary is also part of our belief that there should be no exceptions in the application, for example, of the extended green pass. Yesterday the House of Deputies, in the Bureau, took an important step, which also applies the green pass for entry into the Parliamentary Assembly. I think that the Senate - which, if I understood correctly, will meet on 5 October in order to decide on this - must take a very strong, very clear measure establishing with great determination that there are no areas of exceptionality, that in all workplaces this rule applies, that the Parliamentary Assembly is a place of work par excellence (work at the service of the country) and that here no rules other than those that apply elsewhere can apply. The first clear signal must come from here and the Democratic Party will also conduct this battle, like all the others, with balance, with reasonableness, but also with great clarity and without any margin of ambiguity. We therefore express a favourable vote on the conversion into law of the decree-law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u45	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the progressive action of our country continues to ensure that the robust and important recovery of the economy and social life does not go back. This is the green pass. I first heard colleagues compare with Denmark; there is an abysmal difference between Denmark and Italy and that counts: the density of the population per square kilometre, the average age and so on. But that's not the point. I believe that it is undoubtedly proven by objective data - we can always discuss everything - first of all that vaccination has an absolutely positive outcome on intensive therapies, hospitalizations, mortality and the fact that, trying to make a reasoning together, in this way we save lives. It is very important that this fact can be emphasized in unison by all, just as it is equally important that at the same time all the deformations of truth, which travel in wide meshes, and which tend to produce insecurity and fear are contrasted. In fact, if we fail to guarantee a very high number of vaccinations, in relation to variants and the fact that variants increase the percentage of the population that must be vaccinated, we run the risk of not having a result that today, thanks to the work done in these months, is within our reach, that is to say that of a country that can with serenity - I use this expression - overcome the challenge of Covid and, at the same time, restart social, cultural and economic life. The green pass is a follow-up tool to manage this path. Frankly I cannot understand where the difficulty is, or rather I understand it, if our reference was the theme of consent and, considering that there is an area of the country that does not share this approach, we look at consensus, but certainly not at the interests of the country to which we are all linked. From this point of view, following the advice given us last week Senator Romeo, I use low tones, but I want to be able to give a clear and unique message, not because there is the regime or authoritarianism, but because the three concepts of community, individual freedom and health and social security are held together; there can be no opposition of one concept on the other, because at that point we would not be able to achieve the goals that we all set ourselves. What interests me is also the cultural aspect, except that I have already said clearly that we support this measure and that we will also support what will come in the coming weeks on the subject of public and private work. In particular, returning to what interests me, I wonder if we can really tackle the issue of individual freedom and the conditions of security for the community in a contrasting way. Colleagues and colleagues, this is not a task of science or virology, but, first of all, of politics, which must be able to put at the centre the interest of the community, in which also lies the need that, if I am not convinced to make the vaccine, I must ensure that I am not a subject that can cause harm to my fellow citizens. I think that's fair. When can we ever say the opposite of this concept? That's what I don't understand. Or rather, if everything that exists in this debate and in what has been in the Chamber of Deputies, which has produced a participation in the vote that is not really qualifying, is linked to political reasoning, I understand that, but I do not agree with it. If we want to make a serious argument, in order to find the right balance with this issue, it is precisely the use of the green pass that allows us a balance and that also allows us to take into account those who do not think like me in relation to vaccines, but also taking charge, at the same time, of the fact that it cannot represent a risk for me and for other citizens. I shall conclude on one point, which I have mentioned before. Perhaps I am bored, but I would like to repeat that, in my opinion, the Government must take responsibility for finding the balance between the time of the debate and the role of the Senate and Parliament more generally. I am absolutely convinced that this is possible, without this leading to a slowing down and a loss of the indispensable pace of work that we must maintain for the PNRR and without this representing, on the other hand, an attitude whereby Parliament's role is not fundamental. In fact, the Government needs more than formal expressions of confidence, the contribution of Parliament and the Groups, and this is possible, guaranteeing a synthesis, and thus ensuring an adequate dialectic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u48	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the end of Senator Errani's speech, to hope that this technique of sending security measures to a branch of Parliament will not be a technical test of monocameralism. I really hope that we can find a way of expressing the intelligences, participation and contributions of the Senate, as well as of the House of Deputies. With regard to the green pass, I would like to refer to the issue in Article 32 of the Constitution, which speaks of the absolute protection of health and I would like to recall the numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court, which considered health interventions and prophylaxis to be legitimate, when conditions of health alert are created. So we are in the midst of constitutional principles and there is no violation of them. Therefore, I do not understand who takes a obstructive position on the green pass, when the government, I believe also wisely, has decided not to impose vaccination by law, respecting the freedom of choice of the citizen in this matter. At the same time, however, those who feel that they are not vaccinated must respect the freedom of those who are vaccinated, who want to go to work, education and entertainment, with the greatest possible security of being in an environment where it is difficult to get infected. This is also because vaccination does not make completely immune, as we have seen, but eliminates the serious consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. The measure we are about to adopt, which we share in substance and substance, is a remedy for a dramatic situation that we have been experiencing since 2020. I want to remember the world of school. I have three children - one university and two others in high school - who have been deprived of their right to attend in attendance and to take advantage of the teaching of teachers through the use of DAD. We must avoid this and prevent this from happening again in the future, and so that this does not happen, it is clear that operators within the school world, as well as in the other areas covered by this measure, must be vaccinated. It also seems to me to be a specious call to Denmark because it is true that Denmark has avoided restrictions, but my colleague did not say that that country did so when it reached 83% of the vaccinees, so when he felt that the pandemic was under control. If someone thinks that Covid's problem is solved, then surely it arises with a wrong approach to the issue. I want to remember the enthusiasm of last year after the lockdown and after the summer season, when we thought we had thrown the problem of the pandemic behind us; what happened? How many tens of thousands of infected and how many dozens of deaths this pandemic has created! It has already produced more than 135,000 deaths only in Italy. The Constitutional Court tells us that pandemics must be addressed according to the canons of science and medical art, and that is what politics, the legislator, must do, respecting also minority positions, but showing absolutely the way - the most likely - for the protection of health and for the protection of the health of others. We had an advantage; just look at what happened in the summer behind us: Italy exploded at the level of tourism and activity, and this is because it gained the confidence of the tourists who saw in our country that was able to face the pandemic in the best way. Last year the tourist world cried 90% of its profits; this year, however, it exploded in all its sectors, and today that we are at the end of September, making a comparison with last year, I think I can say that the situation is much more under control. And it is thanks to these interventions, thanks to the rules put in place, that our DEF, in April last, marked a forecast of 4.5% and that our GDP sails for the next year over 6%: it is certainly not what has been lost during this period, but I think it is a signal that is showing a slow but constant recovery of our economy. We are convinced and we support this type of initiative and we also agree that Parliament is the institution that must set an example to the citizens; therefore, we appreciate the decision of the Bureau of the Chamber of Deputies and we are convinced that the Senate of the Republic will also not want to avoid this initiative because within this institution we are citizens equal to all the others and it is right that the same requirements that are imposed, which are recommended to citizens outside this institution, are also fulfilled by the representatives of the people, to give an example and a sense of responsibility. [[Applause]] All right, this initiative, we support it. As the President of the 1st Commission said, the next decree-law extends the green pass to the world of work and there is a need to make some corrections to safeguard fragile citizens, for whom vaccination is not possible, who have the right to work anyway and not to be prejudiced by their health situation. This is a speech we will make in the next few days. I therefore declare our vote in favour of confidence in this measure, because we are convinced that it is the way forward to try to put behind us sooner or later (still the path is not finally concluded) a pandemic that our children, but also we, will remember for many years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u51	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are in this Chamber in fact ratifying what the House has done about the unified conversion of decrees-green pass 2 and green pass 3. These measures have extended the mandatory green pass to new sectors, as important as they are sensitive, such as school, nursing homes and transport. We don't have time and a way to get to the bottom of it. We will certainly do so with the examination of Decree Green Pass 4, the one relating to the workplace, but we can take this opportunity to make some consideration. First of all, I would like to point out that in the overly heated debate there is confusion and an erroneous overlap between different concepts, such as the vaccine and the green pass, which are often used as synonyms, but that is not the case. This confusion then has a direct impact on citizens and their ability to evaluate, citizens who would instead need accurate information, so that they can have answers to their doubts. These are legitimate doubts, if they arise in this climate, and must in any case be respected. Let's lower our tones and put all our efforts into trying to explain, to convince and not to force. [[Applause]] Let's stop creating categories and opposing people. As a League we were among the first to believe in the need of the vaccine and even to ask that our country engage, with its own policy and strategy, in going to realize the vaccines at home so as not to depend on multinationals or foreign powers. We are well aware that the choice of vaccination to combat the pandemic is the one indicated by the national and international scientific community as the main and prevailing solution. It is the path chosen by our community and we as members of it, even more as its representatives, do not escape from supporting it firmly. I remind everyone that the very birth of the Dragon Government, with the entry of the League, was based on two major pillars: economic recovery and vaccination plan. If the vaccination campaign is working it is thanks to the full commitment of the territories, municipalities and regions, mayors and governors, but also and above all to the courageous political choice in which Matteo Salvini believed: that of giving birth to the Government Dragons to abandon the line of Arcuri and members. [[Applause]] The one about the primrose pavilions, the one about the wrong syringes and the phony masks. [[Applause]] If as a League we ask questions only to ask for the vaccination plan to be applied with common sense and caution, for example when we touch on the delicate issue of vaccination to minors. [[Applause]] But let's go back to talking about green passes and remember what it's for. It serves to keep open all those activities, indispensable or not, that otherwise a new pandemic wave would put at serious risk of new closures, with obvious repercussions on the economy and on the quality of life and sociality of all our compatriots. I say more: we would like it to allow you to reopen even what is still closed or accessible in a limited way, such as discotheques, gyms, swimming pools, museums and theatres. The green pass must not, however, be discriminatory, because in any case it does not give certainties: not that of being immunized, not that of being able to behave as if the Covid-19 were no longer there, but only the certainty of having an extra barrier to the circulation of the virus if you are vaccinated or healed; or the certainty of not being infected at a precise moment if you are subjected to a buffer. Just the green tampon pass doesn't have to be seen as a poor brother. The swab, considered immediately one of the three ways to have the green pass, equivalent to that of the vaccine, is therefore fully lawful, if there are doubts and you choose not to vaccinate; if you undertake to give your contribution to the protection of public health through the periodic buffer. The state should not oppose this route, but rather support it and promote it as well as the vaccination route. [[Applause]] I address this request to the Government: it would be useful to have, in addition to the daily data of the percentage of vaccinees, also that of those in possession of the green healing pass. [[Applause]] The overall figure would be far higher and group immunity would be practically achieved. It would also be delimited and detected in a reduced form the audience who must access the buffer. We therefore welcome the steps taken to facilitate access to swabs. The price is available in all pharmacies, the validity of the molecular salivary test and above all the extension of the validity from forty-eight to seventy-two hours of the molecular buffer, decided on a proposal from the Lega alla Camera Group. On the excellent work done in the House, allow me to open a parenthesis on the subject of fragile workers. A very important result has been achieved with regard to the extension of the safeguards provided for in the emergency legislation. The regulatory vacuum that had left fragile workers without adequate protection since 1 July has been remedied, despite the extension of the state of emergency to 31 December 2021. With the adoption of the first-signed amendments by my fellow Members, Mr Panizzut, Mr Lazzarini and Mr De Martini, whom I thank, we allow fragile workers to carry out their work in an agile manner until the end of the state of emergency, abandoning those horrible extensions of two months in two months. For those who, among these workers, will not be able to access the smart working is restored the equalization of the period of absence to hospitalization, with the right to pay and to the preservation of the place. This is an indispensable rule of civilisation for thousands of immunodepressed people, with serious disabilities and cancers, who, in case of infection, would be exposed to the most serious complications of the infection; workers who must be protected without doubt and without budgetary constraints and who cannot put their lives at risk in order to maintain their jobs. We arrived late and all of us should apologize: someone more than others. In the end, however, we were able to achieve this important objective. We ask the government not to stop here, but to extend the same protection also to the unfit workers, at least to those who are not vaccinated or have not had antibody response to the vaccine. The inadmissible worker, not being able to take advantage of the protections referred to in Article 26 of the Italian decree cure, is forced to stay at home in ordinary illness and, as the days of absence increase, suffers salary cuts until he reaches the risk of being fired if he exceeds the period of behaviour provided for by the contract. If the State declares the existence of the emergency, the State must protect the weak: all, without if and without but and without, every time, making it a question of economic costs [[Applause]] The MEF will get over it and find the money you need. I'm telling you, Undersecretary Sileri, because I know you're sensitive to this. Let us all commit ourselves to achieving this result. We also ask the Government to make definitive clarity, with an interpretative rule, to specify to the INPS that during all the absence justified for these reasons the payment of the sickness allowance should never be reduced or interrupted. On these two aspects, I can assure you that we will also insist on converting the green pass decree to the workplace when you begin the examination here in the Senate. We will also insist that other proposals of common sense of the League be accepted by the Government: the gratuitousness of the swabs for at least some categories such as minors, those who are unable to carry out vaccination due to certified diseases and disabled people; the recognition of the validity, for the purposes of the green pass, of the rapid salivary tests, less invasive and less expensive; the extension of the certifications issued to the cured subjects; the request to issue the green pass also following serological tests for the many who have had the Covid-19 without being traced by the health system. Again, we will also insist on fair compensation for those who have been harmed by the vaccine. We also call for the elimination of the limbo in which many fellow citizens have fallen, who are going crazy to get the green pass because of bureaucratic errors, disguides or contradictory rules. If the State imposes that it is a necessary tool to work and earn bread and not just to go to the restaurant or concert, the State cannot afford to harm even one of its citizens unjustly. [[Applause]] Finally, we ask for more information and for it to be correct information. If you get to force your hand on the green pass today, it is because of a failed communication on the subject, in the institutional, scientific and media field: too many discordant news, too many voices, little transparency in information. The government should ensure that the green pass is seen by our compatriots as a useful tool and of common sense, overcoming those abstruse contradictions that have created, for example, between those who go to a restaurant and those who, instead, work in a restaurant. The government must explain the usefulness and value of the vaccination system in facing the pandemic, overcoming also those contradictions that do not come from politics, but that have come from the world of information, which has given voice to supposed experts and virologists who have said everything and the opposite of everything, thus creating confusion in our fellow citizens. Instead, Parliament's task will be to maintain balanced the various rights and freedoms provided for in the Constitution: the rights to health, work and education must remain in balance and I invite you all to work together so that no citizen can see compressed even one of his freedoms that, even if it would not serve to reiterate it, have been conquered in our country with so much sweat, blood and fatigue. We in the League have undertaken to bring to Parliament that real and profound debate, which is present in society and which is outside these doors, on how to apply the green pass, highlighting the positive and negative aspects that can make life difficult for citizens and economic activities. To the distorted accusation of wanting to create problems for the government or even worse of risking the health of the Italians, for us answer the facts and our votes in the official offices. We are not here to create problems for the government or the majority, but to make our contribution to bring them out and resolve them, committing ourselves every day with proposals, agendas and amendments to improve the measures adopted by the government. We make proposals for the security and recovery of the country, we are not in the government to talk about increasing taxes, the land registry, returning to the Fornero law, ius soli, Zan law or other ideological norms. On this basis, the League Group renews its full confidence in President Draghi and his Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u54	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Decree-Law No 111 of 2021, which we will convert today, is closely related to Decree-Law No 105 of 2021, previously adopted, and goes to reaffirm, on the one hand, the value and importance of the green pass as a fundamental prerogative for the control of the spread of the virus, while respecting the beliefs and personal choices that everyone can have. On the other hand, the same decree-law strongly emphasizes that all our social fabric, our economic activities, our own way of living and living together in its many expressions can only start from a firm point that I wish to reiterate: the security of everyone in respect of the ideas of each. [[Applause]] The right to health of every citizen enshrined in our Constitution cannot be subject to blackmail, pressure or coercion. It is an inalienable good of everyone and the State must absolutely protect it in all possible ways. Freedom and collective security always come before individual freedom and security. Therefore, starting from this basic principle, we must make it clear - and this can be done through an increasingly careful and widespread information campaign - the importance of vaccination as a sine qua non condition to finally defeat the pandemic. This campaign must also serve to convey the very meaning of the green pass which does not want to be a coercive measure, a means of discrimination or even a registration. In fact, in reality it represents and will have to realize the real pass necessary to recover together the sociality, the educational and university paths, the work activities in presence, without disproportionate anxieties and excessive phobias that can reduce the same ability to concentrate, to carry out serenely one's own activity or to realize one's own potential. All this, of course, always respecting each one of us. We had to take a step forward, not stand firm on certain positions. A mechanism was needed to protect the security of all and, at the same time, to respect the convictions of the individual, to allow the community to share, with the conviction that the path taken is the right one. We are all aware, for example, of the many negative consequences that distance learning has had for our students of every order and degree from a psychological point of view and of interpersonal relations. Distance learning also involved the strictly cultural growth and enrichment of the knowledge of each of them. The confirmation of what has been said also comes from the scientific results of clinical trials for the evaluation of the psychological development of many children and young people after about two years of distance teaching, as has happened in different areas of our country, but also from the objective deficiencies evidenced by the tests Invalsi, concerning the same didactic path, the cultural deepenings and the improvement of their educational curriculum. The safe resumption of attendance in our schools of every order and grade and in our universities, provided for in Decree-Law No 111, represents objectively a further step forward, important in the progressive process of normalization of the life of our communities. No more empty classrooms. Let us never forget that in every school lives our future. Definitely for a greater epidemiological control and the spread of the contagions will also undoubtedly be important to increase the number of swabs. This is necessary and indispensable for more careful tracking of contacts and more effective monitoring of new outbreaks which may have developed. The correct use and non-abuse of swabs, beyond those who have decided not to vaccinate - in my opinion wrong - should be managed by doctors of general medicine so that their actions can address the appeal in the cases really necessary for proper tracing or when the epidemiological conditions for their use exist. Who arbitrarily and willingly has made and makes different personal choices, different from what are the common opinions shared among other citizens, assumes all the responsibilities, burdens and honors, respecting the opinions of other citizens and above all without endangering their health. In democracy one of the principles of freedom is marked by the subtle balance between respect for the inviolable rights of the individual and the duties that each of us has towards the community. [[Applause]] These are, in my opinion, beyond scientific knowledge and objective assessments of the current epidemiological situation, the basic reasons which, as our President Conte has said, must push to the utmost attention and respect for the green pass in all the planned situations. Only with the good will and the contribution of all, beyond the propaganda slogans or for the search for visibility, will you be able to get out of such a difficult period for our country and the whole world. At the end of the above considerations, I announce the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars to the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u56	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u57	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, the Alternative is a People's List for the Constitution considers the Green Pass to be discriminatory and not based on scientific arguments. In the Commission and in this House we have put three questions, doubting the scientific validity of the only Italian document that measures the alleged reduction in the likelihood of infection of vaccinated and not vaccinated (the only issue that would justify the discrimination imposed with the green pass). There was no response on the subject, as was the request for the daily publication of the data of the new infections broken down for the cases of vaccinees and those of non-vacciners. The lack of transparency and the absolute reduction of the debate - both in Parliament and in the scientific world - on these issues show that these measures have a value not of protecting public health, but exclusively of politics. Let it be clear to everyone that you are abdicating to fundamental principles of our order and you are making this country slip towards a truly dangerous drift. Remain to the acts that the Alternative exists-People's List for the Constitution warned you and did everything to oppose these abominable measures. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u59	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u60	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, this morning, with the proposal for a preliminary question with Mr Martelli, we made it clear that the use of the app by the school in fact violates all the European regulations on health data protection. The app had in fact a technical problem called data breach, with the result that information has emerged regarding the teachers who for two consecutive weeks had not made the vaccine. For this reason, the decree-law cannot be converted at all and we have submitted the question for a preliminary ruling. In addition, with an agenda that was always rejected this morning, it was asked to make quick salivary swabs to all students twice a week. According to your narration, the swab was the only tool to guarantee safety until the advent of the pass, while now it seems that vaccination, which exempts from any type of buffer, guarantees negativity always and anyway. However, this is contradicted by scientific literature, which proves that vaccinees can become infected or infect like others. A negative buffer remains the only guarantee of negativity and in fact there are already several quarantine classes in Liguria alone. What do we want to do since the government hasn't accepted rapid salivary swabs for the students? You want DAD again? Today's news is that the United Kingdom provides 57 million rapid salivary swabs free of charge to the population, with the sole aim of monitoring the overall development of the situation. The United Kingdom provided salivary swabs to pupils, families and teachers, while our Government actually said no. You said the pass has a health nature, but it's false. If it is essential for health protection, you should explain why there is no green pass in San Marino. In San Marino I ate in a restaurant and entered a museum without green passes. There they are still alive, as well as in Sweden, where not a single day of lockdown has been done. Denmark, whose vaccination data are still comparable to ours, has removed all restrictions. If, as you repeat, the pass is an instrument of freedom, why are there more restrictions than last year? For all these reasons, together with my colleague Mr Martelli, I will vote very strongly against this discriminatory and unconstitutional measure and at the same time announce our accession to the referendum repealing all these shameful rules that - I repeat - exist only in Italy and are not in the rest of the world. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u61	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2395, of conversion to law, with amendments, of the decree-law 6 August 2021, n. 111, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will vote from his own place, declaring his own vote. I remember that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Nugnes is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Nugnes. PUGLIA, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, it takes the Presidency - at 12.30 a.m.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2395, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law 6 August 2021, n. 111, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 220 Senators voting 220 Majority 111 Favorable 189 Contrars 31]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 111 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u64	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, it has been a scorching and infinite summer, also because of the fires that this year have proved to be more disastrous than ever, often of arson, but too often due to carelessness and extreme superficiality that angers, because it comes from those who live these places, tourists, who should love them, protect them, in when they represent the beauty of many days in the open air, lunches in family or with friends; happy hours spent in wonderful places that, because of some bad behaviors, end up in smoke, disappear for everyone, turning into a lunar landscape. A deep pain for the coast that bathes my territory. It happened last Sunday, on a hot Sunday at the end of summer, in the beautiful pine forest of Longara near the Foce Fortore, in the Province of Foggia, near the seaside village of Lesina. It is an area, a site of community importance and Special protection zone, Mediterranean maquis highly frequented in summer by tourists from all over Italy. All this area I have been living since I was a child and very often I have reported the misuse that was made of it: too many cars of daily tourists, abandonment of garbage and often use of barbecue. Unfortunately, what I was afraid occurred: a short time ago a small fire, now 5 hectares in smoke. The damage was contained thanks to the intervention of the fire department, which I will never tire of thanking for their incessant commitment. A great hope animates our parliamentary work for the examination in these days of the Senate of the decree-law for the fight against forest fires, which intervenes with a series of measures in the matter of both prevention and active struggle, in order to improve the existing regulatory framework. Highly qualified personnel will support civil protection in the task of drawing up the national plan for the fight against fire, paying particular attention to the use of innovative technological tools. Many resources are made available, both for the purchase of means and for the active fight, as well as for the monitoring of the territory and for the Arm of the forest carabinieri. The measure also tightens the sanctions against the wicked authors of these miserable acts and encourages collaborations for investigations. It is a legislative intervention of good impact, but let me say that the real turning point for a future greater respect for nature and biodiversity will be when all the components that contribute to strengthening environmental awareness have taken their course, hopefully in the shortest possible time. Now there remains anguish for the serious damage inflicted on our land, which will keep its wounds for years, wounds that are also ours, let us not forget. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u67	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, Senators, yesterday was a very sad day for the community of my country, the Municipality of Albanella in the province of Salerno. Shortly before noon a devastating fire broke out at a storage company, which mostly treats scraps of iron and special waste. The fire affected a very large area, which was invaded by a cloud of dense black smoke. The officers of the fire of Eboli and Agropoli immediately intervened on the site. The Carabinieri have also taken to the site, who are investigating the causes of the fire. My thanks go to the Forces of Order and to all those who have committed their energies to the management of this unfortunate event. Thanks to their intervention the emergency came back yesterday afternoon and it was possible to limit the fire, avoiding that it could also involve the main warehouse of the storage center, saving the territory from additional environmental risks. My thoughts and my closeness go to the citizens of Albanella, especially to the residents of the area. This dramatic event requires us to reflect carefully on the adequacy of the levels of prevention in plants and on the need to protect territories with a mainly agricultural purpose. The Province of Salerno can no longer take the risk of environmental disasters and still run the risk of losing the immense heritage of its agro-food excellence. For this reason, with the President of the Regional Commission special internal areas of the Campania Region, Michele Cammarano, we invite the competent institutions to reflect carefully on the choice of building a new plant for the management and treatment of special waste in the Municipality of Albanella. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u68	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-363.ana.u69	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 6 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.45 p.m.
