ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 25 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u4	I communicate that on 26 November the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Health, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Sustainable Infrastructures and Mobility - Conversion into law of Decree-Law 26 November 2021, No 172, introducing urgent measures for the containment of the epidemic by Covid-19 and for the safe conduct of economic and social activities (2463).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u5	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I wish to address a moving thought to Senator Vincenzo La Russa, who died last Sunday in his Paternò, Sicily. Brother Major of Vice President Ignazio La Russa, to whom my heartfelt embrace goes for the painful loss, Vincenzo La Russa was a man of fine culture and great passions: for law, for history, for politics. Lawyer, distinguished jurist, writer and essayist, had inherited from his father Antonino, parliamentarians of the Italian Social Movement, a strong sense of the State and civic commitment. After being City Councillor and Provincial Councillor in Milan, the city where he had moved very young with his family and where he spent most of his life, Vincenzo la Russa had entered Parliament for the first time in 1979 as Senator of Christian Democracy, a party in which, by character, thought, ideals and cultural formation, he has always identified himself, militating there since the beginning of his political experience and becoming one of his most illustrious exponents. Following the dissolution of the Christian Democracy, for which he had also been a member from 1983 to 1987, he had joined the Christian Democratic Centre and had been elected again to the Senate in the XII legislature, in the college of Caltagirone-Paternò. In that legislature, as a newly elected Senator of Forza Italia I personally shared with him so many moments between the benches of this House. I have always admired the great professionalism, the scrupulousness in the deepening of parliamentary acts, the unassailable coherence of ideas, the tireless willingness to dialogue and confrontation, the moral rigour and the firm respect of the institutions: qualities that also distinguished his international commitment as a representative of the Senate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of which he was also authoritative Vice President. With Vincenzo La Russa we greet a dear colleague, a friend, an authentic example of civic and political passion, lived every day with dedication, generosity, concreteness and intellectual honesty. To the family of Senator Vincenzo La Russa, vice-president Ignazio, brother Romano, sister Emilia and their loved ones I renew my personal closeness and the condolences of the whole Senate. In memory of Senator Vincenzo La Russa, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u8	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I am only speaking to thank you. It is not customary for a memorial in this House to be followed by the intervention of one of the relatives and it is even less usual - perhaps unique - for a joint member of a different party of the parliamentarians just mentioned. I really want to thank you for the words you have spent and to join in thanking the representatives of the Groups of all the political areas who wanted me to feel their closeness. A special thanks goes to the President of the Republic, who was a friend of Vincenzo, who wanted to honor me with a personal phone call, as well as to the representatives and leaders of the center-right parties and not only. It's not up to me to remember: she did it admirably. I'm just saying, because he would have kept it, that maybe Vincenzo was the only MP who was elected without family votes: that's why we called him the white sheep in the family and he was proud of it. It was also a sign of the fact that our brotherly relationship - who knows us, like Maurizio Gasparri who knew him well, knows how close we were - was not at all affected by different political positions. For this both I and Vincenzo were grateful to my father, right-wing man, among the founders of the Italian Social Movement (MSI), who never imposed a political vision in the family, for which Vincenzo was a Christian Democrat, I was an exponent of the Italian Social Movement, and this did not prevent us from being not only brothers, but - if you can - really much more. Thank you all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u9	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of Leaders, which met on Wednesday 24 November, approved by a majority the timetable for the work of the current week. The calendar provides, with sessions until Friday 3 December, if necessary, the discussion of the decree-law on measures in the field of taxation and labour protection. In the session of tomorrow will be discussed the reports of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity on the disputed elections in the Campania, Puglia and the foreign Circumscription-South America, as well as the report on the issue of the vacant seat in the Veneto Region. The week from 6 to 10 December will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, in particular the 5th Permanent Commission, on the draft budget law. With regard to the following week, it was decided at the time that the Assembly would meet on Wednesday 15 December at 4 p.m. for communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 16 and 17 December 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u10	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 24 November 2021, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of work of the current week: [[Tuesday, November 30 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2426 - Decree-Law n. 146, Measures in tax matters and protection of labour (expires on 20 December) - Doc. III, Nos. 3, 4 and 5 - Reports of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity on the contested elections in the Campania, Puglia and Foreign Circumscription-South America and Doc. XVI, n. 7 - Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the issue of the vacancy in the Veneto Region (Wednesday 1st December) Wednesday 1st December h. 9.30-20 Thursday 2nd h. 9.30 a.m. Friday 3rd h. 9.30 a.m. (if necessary)]] The week from 6 to 10 December will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, in particular the 5th Commission on the draft budget law. On Wednesday 15 December, at 4 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make Communications with a view to the European Council of 16 and 17 December 2021. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2426 (Decree-Law No 146, Measures on taxation and labour protection) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u13	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as far as the timetable is concerned, we are putting forward an alternative proposal. Given that the decree-law on measures relating to taxation and labour protection is under discussion, we propose that this week we concentrate on this measure and, if necessary, postpone the examination of the measures of the Junta of the elections and of the parliamentary immunity, scheduled for the day of tomorrow, to another date to be allocated.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u16	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I only take the floor to say that I agree with the proposal made by President Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u19	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I take the floor not only to announce that the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote for the confirmation of the timetable approved by the Conference of Leaders, but also to underline the political weight of decisions that are not only procedural but also have a strong institutional value. I do not know the reasons why some groups are proposing for tomorrow's day - as we have heard - the postponement of the vote on the deliberations of the Assembly of the elections and of parliamentary immunity, which may be the most diverse. But I note that, as always, they all have political foundations and political consequences. The timetable approved by a majority by the Conference of Leaders for tomorrow provided for the definition of certain decisions of the Assembly's election council, which should define the legitimacy of its plenum. This appeal to the Assembly takes place on the basis of the principle of self-dichia, which makes the Senate the judge of the titles of legitimacy of its members. Now, Mr President, the delay with which the House is dealing with this very delicate issue is truly impressive. For some cases instructed by the Council, the Assembly has received the relevant deliberations for more than fourteen months, not to mention that we are now in the final phase of the legislature and on the eve of the election of the President of the Republic and that the undefined situation of pending cases must also be attributed to the failure to ratify the election of two thirds of the senators. To date, the ratification of the election of two thirds of the senators has not yet been carried out. Now, I am not going to go into the matter of individual cases - we will discuss them tomorrow - but I am just saying that a further postponement would greatly aggravate our already very important non-compliance. I believe, President, that the Senate must reflect on the way in which we are exercising the powers that self-tell it. I recall that the loss of parliamentary immunity was the result of the distorted use made of it; that the loss of public funding of the parties is the result of the excessive measure it had achieved and that the cancellation of the vitalities is due to the serious abuses that have been made of it, even by granting a lifetime pension to those who had been parliamentary for only a couple of days. I think we need to be very careful. Self-dedication is a fundamental institution of democracy, which protects Parliament's independence. But if we continue to postpone our decisions, we will prove that we do not know how to use it and the self-dedication will also be lifted. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u22	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of Movimento 5 Stars to confirm the vote on the timetable, as we believe it is necessary to reach a final decision on the work carried out in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. We are quite late and it is clear that decisions on disputes about seats should be taken if not as quickly as possible, at least by the end of the parliamentary term. We therefore find the request for referral to be quite serious. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u25	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, as you know, our Parent Company, Senator Bernini, has repeatedly called at the Conference of the Leaders (and also at the last) for the definition of cases relating to the Election Council and the Senate Assembly in its composition and plenum. There are four different cases: one concerns the disappearance of one senator, another the representatives elected by Italians abroad and the other two complex issues. The Forza Italia Group confirms, also in the Chamber, as well as in the Conference of Leaders, its favourable position on the schedule of proceedings. On behalf of the Group, I repeat the position already expressed at the Conference of Group Leaders by the parent company Bernini on the timetable, but I cannot pretend that I have not dealt with these events institutionally. I would like to say to my fellow Members that there are some controversial issues which the Junta entrusted to this House 14 months ago. It will then be the House that decides freely and I have no intention of going into this at this stage. Senator Zanda, who has a different political position from mine, also recalled this with the intellectual honesty that characterizes him. Senator Evangelista, who is part of the Junta, in which we are 23, intervened. In this parliamentary term, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has addressed all the cases that have been referred to it, often even delicate, with events that have affected the Government, individual colleagues and electoral situations. We sent a number of cases to the Presidency fourteen months ago (others later) and I understand that the Presidency has urged the Groups to take a decision. Then there were other events, including that of the Senator unfortunately missed last summer and also in that case, with a tiring debate, the Junta referred the matter to the Presidency. We are now talking about not taking decisions after the measures in question have been in the Conference of Leaders for fourteen months, which is the body that approves the timetable. I should like to make a few comments which I have listened to and I would like to add a comment. This morning, together with my counterpart in the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Giachetti, I met a delegation from the OSCE, which makes visits to Parliaments, carrying out checks on the rules that exist in the countries. This morning's meeting was about electoral law. I'd like to call Senator Zanda's attention that he doesn't know about. This morning the representatives of the OSCE, who with Giachetti - you all know him - met in the House, asked us about the electoral procedures and about who decides the disputes. Mr Giachetti and I have explained the concept of self-reporting to OSCE officials, saying that our Constitution in Article 66 gives Parliament, in the final analysis, the decision on disputes. This is so true that in another controversial case of this parliamentary term a colleague addressed himself to the Constitutional Court not agreeing with the decision of the Assembly and the Consultative Committee decided that the appeal was inadmissible, returning the ball to Parliament. Parliament must therefore decide on these cases and the House will decide how it thinks. Many of the votes are also taken by secret vote. The non-decision prevents self-declaration, which is one of the last remaining roles that Parliament has reserved for itself, from exercising. And if a power, a role, a responsibility is not exercised, it is right that you lose it. There are also other issues that have long been pending: the rules in force, the rule of the Constitution, the plenum of the Assembly, the correctness of the procedures. It is not only the timetable to be confirmed by this vote, but a process of democracy. Parliament is then sovereign and will decide on the substance of what it believes in the freedom it must claim, but also in the powers it has to exercise. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, my speech will be irrational, but the problem here today is not the absolutely respectable debate on what we have decided and discussed in the Conference of the Leaders and on the importance of bringing the measures of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to this House. We have another problem, President. Tomorrow - as you can see in the published calendar - some Groups are planning a meeting with the President of the Council. I think we start in the morning at 10 a.m. with the Autonomous Group and the Coraggio Italia component. Then follow Italia Viva and Liberi and Uguali. In all this I point to a problem with the tax decree. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The President of the Commission will tell us whether they will be able to conclude the examination of the measure tonight. However, since it is a decree-law, it should reach the limit in the morning to begin the general discussion. However, we could only have a debate because some groups would still be missing. The examination of the measure will then have to continue. I therefore allow myself to make a perhaps irrational proposal: more than voting now, perhaps we should find at the Conference of the Leaders the opportunity to set up what I call a set-up. We have first of all the priority of the tax decree and then the fact that during the examination of certain measures of the Junta - beyond how everyone can think about the opportunity or not - of the Groups may not be present here in their vote. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to be able to stop us - I do not know how - on this vote and to address the actual problems that we will have tomorrow on the timetable. The picture has changed compared to what we decided last week.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u31	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would simply like to reiterate what Senator De Petris has said. My group was convened tomorrow at 3.30 p.m. by President Draghi. Beyond the vote that will be taken today, in line with what was expressed at the Conference of the Leaders, the problem arises of how to move forward in order to enable all the Groups to participate in their entirety in the subject that concerns what Senators Gasparri and Zanda have said.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u32	Compared to the timetable that had already been defined by the Conference of Leaders and approved by a majority, there is the alternative proposal of Senators Romeo and Pharaoh that the current week however continue the work on the tax decree and that therefore the reports of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity are postponed to another date. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, put forward by Senators Romeo and Pharaoh. It's not approved. As the result of the vote by show of hands is not clear, I have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. The Senate doesn't approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u33	He asked the President of the 6th Commission, Senator D'Alfonso, to report on the work of the Commissions meeting 6a and 11a on draft law No 2426. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u34	Mr President, I note that the two committees have begun voting. We have reached the fourth Article, including amendments. We have 13 other articles to vote on with the related amendments, and therefore we need time. We shall continue to vote at 5.15 p.m., in line with the work of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u35	Senator D'Alfonso, are you planning on finishing this evening? D'ALFONSO (PD). We hope to finish, if all the activity of political confrontation comes to fruition, in the late evening, considering also the possibility of the first hours of the night.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u38	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, 18 of the 43 archaeology, fine arts and landscape superintendents, representing 42% of the total, have been entrusted temporarily, since Monday 15 November, to officials who have not passed a public competition but have responded to an interview and presented the curriculum to the relevant Director-General. Of the Ministry of Culture (Mic) were candidates 256 and 231 were from other administrations, but the 18 were all selected from among the interiors, a choice understandable for the delicate offices of territorial protection, but excluding the eight directors of the same Mic who had themselves proposed; one of the eight had taken over from a couple of months the interim leadership of the superintendence for which he competed, but was not chosen and indeed knew that he had to terminate the contract and free the office on the Friday before that fateful Monday. As for the 18 lucky ones, there are some (a few, if not very few) who have long entered the ranks of the Ministry and with a resume of weight that disfigures those of the others. In most cases, in fact, it seems that the less qualified officials, those with less administrative and field-protection experience, younger individuals or by the age of service of the generation raised in the specialist superintendences prior to the Franceschini reform, have been chosen wisely. In addition to securing the long-awaited generational replacement of the leadership, it seems that the eternal Minister and all the ranks of his court have not failed to orient some choices of the Director General archaeology, fine arts and landscape (ABAP). It is rumored, in fact (and the employees of the Mic are allowed nothing else, except at the price of serious disciplinary sanctions), that in the elected army of the friends of Franceschino, as has been ironically reported by "Stricia the news," there are more than one pupil of the Minister, of the administrative leadership of the Roman College and of the non-general leaders in the graces of the first to know friendly relations. It is still whispered that the spouse of an executive of a major credit institution in the country, especially close to the Mic, has been favored; finally, more than one official among the winners of this round was already known to the chronicles for personal or professional events not upbuilding. Mr Franceschini has rejected with indignation those who, in his written reply to a question by the speaker, called insinuations destitute of every foundation, which surprises and displeasingly can find hospitality in parliamentary acts; however, the healthy part of the country and the Ministry which was of cultural goods, much more disdained, surprised and sorry about him, reject the systematic disapplication of Article 97 of the Constitution made by Mic and crystallization through practices of corruptive behaviour. Resign yourself, Minister Franceschini, in a whirlwind of dignity that, if it were ever, would be the only one in his career.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u41	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the speech I am about to make is very short, but I particularly remember this and I believe that in the next few days the House, with its leadership, can only remember that exactly 150 years ago the Senate of the Republic was in Palazzo Madama. The following is written in the tombstone behind him: Italy is returned to itself and to Rome, where we recognize the Homeland of our thoughts, everything speaks to us of greatness, but at the same time everything reminds us of our duties. It was Vittorio Emanuele II and it was November 27, 1871, exactly 150 years ago. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u42	Senator Candiani, I am very pleased that you have remembered this date, because you will also remember that in 2018, where the first session took place, i.e. in the inner courtyard, I discovered the original plate, which had been modified and then censored by the fascist party; I then reported it in the original version, which precisely remembered this first session. There was therefore an official celebration right in the inner courtyard and I thank you for remembering it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u45	BITI (PD). Mr President, today is an important event and I regret not being in my Florence, in my Region to celebrate the Feast of Tuscany. On 30 November 235 years ago, in fact, Tuscany abolished, the first state in the world and in history, the death penalty. It was Grand Duke Peter Leopold, of whom in our Region many other reforms are remembered, in line with what he had studied and deepened in the essay of Cesare Beccaria, "Dei delitti e delle penitenti," who had already been out for a long time and who he read passionately, to want a reform of the penal code. This reform was certainly not perfect; on the contrary, it contained considerable imperfections of rights, on which the Grand Duke himself then returned. For the first time, however, he carried an epochal reform within himself. The Grand Duchy of Tuscany, Tuscany, my land, two hundred and thirty-five years ago said that human life has an incomparable price and that it must not be touched, abolishing the death penalty. It is an honour for me, of course, to come from that land, which has somehow traced history, unfortunately not all over the world, but certainly in Europe. There's our story. There are our values, there are also our goals. That's why today, even if I am in the Senate, I was pleased to remember the feast of Tuscany, established in 2000, which remembers and celebrates that event, so important in the matter of law and respect for human life, that every year becomes a commitment for us too: an important commitment, a pungolo, something that must stimulate us to make sure that all over the world you really get to get that famous moratorium, of which Italy of course has always made itself a flag carrier, so that the death penalty is abolished. There is nothing more important than human life, which cannot and must not be taken away from anyone. I am proud to say so in this House today on this anniversary. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u48	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, my speech at the end of the sitting is also addressed to the presidency of the Senate, which I know is extremely attentive to the prerogatives of each Member of Parliament and deals with two issues. The first concerns an executive of the State Police, who in 2017 was involved in an unfortunate accident, an attempt at theft. The manager, who was also pregnant, had taken action to thwart this type of activity. Rightly, therefore, she had been designated as the recipient of a promotion. Inexplicably, the Ministry of the Interior is opposing, despite the decisions of the TAR and despite the decisions of its administration. This is extremely serious. We tabled a question last July: no one was worthy to answer. The same applies to a motion on the relationship between Italy, the Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, in particular in the area of the so-called GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) of the Middle East, as regards the sale of so-called defence instruments. According to this, a motion has been filed to heal a story that is making our country ridiculous, especially in the eyes of the Middle East, Saudi Arabia and the Arab Emirates. We also call for a timetable because, frankly, being taken for the lapel is fine, but it does not fall within the prerogatives of Parliament and does not fall within the prerogatives of a Member of Parliament, particularly on such important matters. With regard to the question, this is Act 3-002760 of 28 July 2021, while the motion is 1-00426 of 19 October 2021. I hope that the House, the Presidency and the Offices will be the interpreters of this serious complaint, which I considered necessary to address in the Senate today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u51	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, on Saturday 20 November, in Rimini, in the re-qualified Garden of Memory, an important commemorative ceremony was held for the 24 victims of the White One Band. It was a very heartfelt and participated memory, which I would like to share with all of you today. I remember well on January 30, 1988, when, in front of the Coop supermarket in Celle, Giampiero Picello, the first victim of the Banda della Uno bianca, so called for the car used for the shots, was killed. I can't forget that, because the location of that shooting isn't far from my house. I was only sixteen years old, but the fear and dismay of that episode, which shocked the community, are still alive inside me. It was a terrible action, which cost the lives of one person, caused many wounded, including a nine - year - old girl. So much blood and no spoils: the gang ran away that day empty-handed. In the presence of the representatives of the association that brings together the family of the victims of the White One and the city institutions was returned to our city, at the end of a restoration, a place of memory in which there are 24 commemorative plates and 24 almonds for each of the innocent victims fallen for the ferocity of the band of the Savi brothers who, from 19 June 1987 to 21 November 1994, caused innocent victims (24 dead, 102 wounded), performing 103 criminal acts for more than seven and a half years of terror and blood that struck the Romagna, Bologna and Ancona. I believe that today it is important to share this commemoration and remember that dark and dramatic period of our country. A process of digitization of documents is in place so as not to disperse and shed light on the too many dark corners of this story, a digitization that requires a commitment, but also the preservation of documents that can still give important revelations. I shall conclude, Mr President, by quoting the words of the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, who said: Memory is the root of the community. To remember is a condition for the conquered freedom to continue to be transmitted and lived as an indivisible good. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u52	Colleagues, in order to settle the proceedings of tomorrow's session of the Assembly, in which the reports of the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunities are to be discussed, I immediately convene the Conference of the Leaders for a very brief meeting from 5.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., since the issues before the House are intertwined with the convening of the various parliamentary groups by President Draghi. I repeat, it will be a very quick meeting in order to get matters in line. I therefore suspend the sitting until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.19 p.m. and resumed at 6.09 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders, taking into account the progress of work in the Commissions meeting 6th and 11th on the Decree-Law on urgent measures in the economic and fiscal field, to protect labour and for the sake of indisputable needs and the request of the Brothers of Italy Group to hold a meeting in the morning of tomorrow, decided that tomorrow's sitting should begin at 12.30 a.m. for the general discussion on the aforementioned Decree-Law. Consequently, the reports of the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunities already provided for in the current timetable will be discussed on Thursday.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-383.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 1 December, at 12.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.10 a.m.
