ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 25 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 25 February 2021 Dear President, I inform your Ladyship that the President of the Republic, by his own decree of today, adopted on my proposal, after hearing the Council of Ministers, has appointed the following Subsecretaries of State: to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers: Vincenzo Amendola; on. Deborah Bergamini; pref. Franco Gabrielli; sen. Simona Flavia Malpezzi; sen. Assuntela Messina; sen. Giuseppe Moles; on. Danila Nesci; on. Mr Bruno Tabacci; for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation: Ms Marina Sereni; Dr. Benedetto Della Vedova; on. Manlio Di Stefano; for the Interior: on. ; Nicola Molteni, on. Ivan Scalfarotto; on. Carlo Sibilia; for Justice: on. ; Anna Macina, on. Francesco Paolo Sisto; for Defense: on. Giorgio Mulè; sen. Stefania Pucciarelli; for the Economy and Finance: on. Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mr Laura Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castelli; Mrs Castell Claudio Durigon; prof. Maria Cecilia Guerra; Dr. Alessandra Sartore; for Economic Development: sen. Gilberto Pichetto Fratin; Dr. Alessandra Todde; on. Anna Ascani; for agricultural food and forestry policies: sen. Francesco Battistoni; sen. Gian Marco Centinario; for the environment and protection of the territory and the sea: on. Ilaria Fontana; on. Vannia Gava; for Infrastructure and Transport: sen. Teresa Bellanova; on. Mr Alessandro Morelli; Giovanni Carlo Cancelleri; per il Lavoro e le politiche sociale: sen. Rossella Accoto; sen. Tiziana Nisini; per l'Educazione: sen. Barbara Floridia; on. Rossano Sasso; for cultural heritage and activities and for tourism: sen. Mr Lucia Borgonzoni; for Health: Mr. Andrea Costa; sen. Pierpaolo Sileri. F.to Mario Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and timetable until 9 March. In relation to the Commission's Decree-Law containing further provisions for the containment of the Covid-19 and for the 2021 elections, already on today's agenda, the discussion of the measure will begin at tomorrow's sitting, starting at 10 a.m. Thursday, March 4, at 10 am, will be discussed by the headquarters drawing up the bill on the declaration of national monument of the former prison camp of Servigliano. At 3 p.m. the question time will take place, with the presence of agricultural policy ministers, youth policies and cultural heritage. The week from 8 to 12 March will be mainly reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the hearings on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The Assembly will meet on Tuesday 9 March, at 16.30, for the discussion of the decree-law on the functioning of the ICON. At 3 p.m. on Tuesday 9 March, the Conference of Leaders shall be convened to define the continuation of the work. The Presidency once again drew the heads of groups' attention to the criteria for drafting inspection union acts, based on the strict application of regulatory rules, in accordance with the directives already communicated on 11 September 2018.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the schedule of proceedings until March 9: [[Tuesday, March 2, h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 2066 - Decree-Law n. 2, Additional containment provisions COVID-19 and elections 2021 (decades on March 15) - Drawing of law n. 1658 - Declaration of national monument of the former prison camp of Servigliano (from the drawing up office) (Thursday 4, 10 hours) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 4, 15 hours) Wednesday 3 " h. 10 Thursday 4 " h. 10]] [[Tuesday, March 9 h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 2077 - Decree-Law n. 5, Operation CONI (decades on March 30)]] The week from 8 to 12 March will be mainly reserved for the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2066 (Decree-Law No 2, Additional provisions contained COOVID-19 and elections 2021) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 52' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' FIBP-UDC 41' Mixed 35' PD 33' FdI 26' IV-PSI 25' Europeanists-MAIE-CD 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2077 (Decree-Law No 5, Operation CONI) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 52' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' FIBP-UDC 41' Mixed 35' PD 33' FdI 26' IV-PSI 25' Europeanists-MAIE-CD 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u8	Before I give her the floor, however, I ask the Senators Quaestors, on other very careful occasions, to ensure that the senators are in their place. Please, Senator Ciriani, you may intervene. CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group did not vote on the timetable. It was not for a whim, for the sake of being against everything and everyone, but after long trying, throughout the whole Conference of Leaders, to find an honorable agreement for everyone. On the other hand, the attitude, unfortunately, was not of this kind. We did not enter that meeting with any prejudice to the majority. We have listened to the government's reasons, which are reasons that have their own strength. We recognize the government's right to approve its own measures, but we have made a number of unacceptable proposals. We are asking, simply and banally, to see, not adopted, but to discuss our motion for a resolution relating to: [[Cashback. (Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u9	Senator Licheri, I invite you to take your seat. By the way, I think there is too much noise in that part of the House today. You can't do the work at all. If you prefer, we'll suspend the session and pick it up in a while. Please continue, Senator Ciriani.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u10	Mr President, as I said, ours is a minimal request that we be able to discuss, without the claim of course to approve it, a motion relating to cashback. The subject is not the content of the motion itself, but the right of opposition to see itself recognized as a role in Parliament. This is in fact Parliament, the place where everyone can and must speak freely. [[Applause]] , to support and explain their reasons, to be able to bring to the attention of the Government and colleagues the motivations of those who did not share the majority choices. It is just as important a role as that of those who rule. However, I must record that our collaborative, ultra-collaborative attitude has been rejected to the sender. We have asked to schedule the motion tomorrow, but we have been told that it is not possible to postpone it until next week, but next week it will not be possible because it is the week dedicated to the work of the Commissions. We proposed then on the 16th, but there was a reply that that day we do not know if we can discuss the motion because in the meantime who knows what very important measures will come to the attention of the Senate. Perhaps at the end of March, but not even at the end of March, perhaps in April, but perhaps not even in April. It is an irritating game that we cannot accept in any way. I want to make it clear that we will not accept in any way that the minimum rights of the minority are trampled on either in this House or in the Commission or in the meetings of the Leaders. I want to say this in a very clear and very clear way; if anyone expects our reasonableness to be confused with other attitudes of total genuflection towards the majority he has the wrong direction and it is better that he put it clearly in the head. We will use all the instruments that the Rules of Procedure allow to defend our reasons, which are not those of Brothers of Italy, but those of the opposition that must be considered for the merit it has. We will therefore vote against the timetable and, if the attitude of the majority is of this kind, I believe that it will also be opposed on the next occasion. [[Applause]] In conclusion, I would like to ask you to schedule the debate on the cashback motion next week - or as you asked in the Commission on 16th. I would ask the House to express its views on my proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u11	Senator Ciriani, the Presidency has taken good note of your arguments. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings, which aims to provide for the next week's calendarization of the motion on cashback, tabled by Senator Ciriani. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u14	DRAGO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to an issue which concerns a large number of teachers who, in addition to being exiled, have also become invisible to the system for the teacher's vaccine. Paradoxical situations are taking place as teachers who hold posts in a region other than their residence are unable to access the vaccination reservation service because the system does not recognize them either in the Province of residence or in the Province of ownership. This should be done quickly to unravel the skein in which they are caged and wrapped, so as not to frustrate the efforts being made to vaccinate school staff. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that some 15,000 of these are waiting for mobility, as provided for in numerous judgments. As I speak, at a time when we should be working here in this House, the meetings between the trade unions and the Ministry of Reference, then the Ministry of Education, have thickened and a discussion table is under way. We anticipate the possibility of extraordinary mobility of 100% on all available seats, as required by the rules. Talking about extraordinary mobility is an oxymoron, because it is provided for by the current legislation. From the initial 40% of the year 2019-2020, we have reached a 25% for 2021, due to the additional contract in force, a decidedly low number that in these times of pandemic fails to guarantee, if not very few, a family reunion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u17	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the ship Brod Mira Galeb, the seaside residence of Marshal Tito, will be transformed, thanks to the support of a European funding obtained from Croatia in the context of the project of tourism enhancement of the monuments representative of the industrial heritage of Rijeka, into a multimedia museum. The goal is to make the ship a place of cultural and tourist attraction of the city of Rijeka, thanks to an allocation of 9,259 million euros. While it is true that European funds should be bestowed with the aim of enhancing a heritage whose value is transversally recognized and never to feed ideological fatiosity, the funding granted risks being perceived as homage to Marshal Tito, guilty of mass killings, as well as the promotion of a real ethnic cleansing, aggravated by an ideological factor and therefore as an attempt to promote a reading of history that interprets communism as a phase of questionable brutality. [[Applause]] From foibas to internal purgations, a long trail of blood accompanied the figure of Tito. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u18	Colleagues, I would ask you to pay attention or otherwise to leave the Chamber, not least because the subject does not seem entirely uninterested in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u19	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, President. In 1950 alone, 7,863 prison sentences were issued in Croatia for infringement of the mandatory mass law. The opponents of the regime disappeared, of course without a trace; 12,000 prisoners of Istria and Kvarner were re-educated with atrocious physical and psychological tortures, many did not return home. The most infamous mark in the history of Tito starts from the Yugoslav lagers, called the fields of death, which still cry revenge, the same cry that resounds from the black hole of the foibe, which continue to multiply. In reports by men of the Special Services of the Navy, about fifty pages emerge accompanied by chilling testimonies and unequivocal photographs, real concentration camps escaped the media spotlight of the most famous German camps. The dictator Titus used the instrument of terror to unite the peoples of various races and religions. [[Applause]] He must be charged, beyond reasonable doubt, the atrocious name of inventor of ethnic cleansing. This is why the European Union's support for the restoration initiative runs the risk of appearing contrary to what the European Parliament said in its resolution of 19 September 2019 on the importance of European memory for the future of Europe, if titine crimes and anti-democratic repression policy were not part of the museum's path in which the work intends to fit in. In this respect, I hope that the Italian Government will speak to the European Commission and to the Croatian Government so that these elements of truth... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u20	I gave you a few more minutes for the interruption and also for the importance of the subject you have dealt with. If you wish, you can hand over the remainder of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u23	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, in the light of the latest developments on the Khashoggi case, I believe it is necessary to return to the relationship between Senator Matteo Renzi and Saudi prince bin Salman. Instead of absolving himself in ridiculous self-interviews, Renzi should be ashamed, publicly apologizing and resign immediately from the council of the Saudi foundation "Future investment initiative institution," from which he receives 80,000 euros per year. [[Applause]] His friend Saudi prince, bin Salman, by Renzi called a champion of the new Middle Eastern Renaissance, a modern and enlightened ruler, that the whole Arab world should take as an example, was officially recognized by the United States as responsible for the barbaric murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, killed and literally torn apart for criticizing his monarchy: stuff worthy of the darkest Middle Ages, other than Renaissance! Like the 3,000 Yemeni children killed by the savage Saudi air bombings on villages, markets, mosques, schools and hospitals, and the 85,000 children killed by the famine caused in Yemen by the Saudi military siege. The difference in human depth, rather than political, between us and Renzi, do you know what it is? I tell you: in the same days when Renzi, in full pandemic and in the midst of a crisis of government, which he himself provoked, he went to Saudi Arabia, for his own compensation, to weave the praises of a violent regime, the government of Giuseppe Conte and the Farnesina led by Luigi Di Maio blocked the sale of weapons to that same regime. [[Applause]] Among them the more than 20,000 bombs produced in Italy, which Renzi himself in 2016, as President of the Council, had decided to sell to his friend bin Salman, when the Saudi war crimes in Yemen were known long ago. I want to believe that there is no correlation between Renzi's support for the Saudi war effort in Yemen and the fruitful cooperation that the head of that nation has also offered. I believe, however, that it is necessary to reflect on the political and ethical opportunity for the Members of this House to receive sums of money for their participation in associations, foundations and the like. That is why I shall consider any further action, including legislative action, aimed at remedying what, in my opinion, is a serious issue. Unfortunately, Mr Renzi, as is often the case, is not present in the Chamber, because I would have liked to tell him vis a vis that, if he has a minimum of conscience, he should immediately break his relationship of paid collaboration with the Saudi foundation and donate the 80,000 euros he perceived to the five children of Khashoggi, or to the relatives of the Yemeni family (father, mother pregnant in the fourth month and four children), exterminated on October 8, 2016 in a village of peasants by the explosion of an Italian bomb dropped by the hunting of bin Salman. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u26	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, we are constantly faced with an emergency within the emergency: we have said so in various circumstances. Well, I also believe that it is indeed an emergency to face the hypocrisy of our country, which finds support and comfort in certain journalism, supported by the presence of a senator of the Republic: Matteo Renzi. [[Comments]] This intervention stems from the need to put the spotlight on what happened a few days ago, about the case of the heinous murder of Jamal Khashoggi... [[Comments.]] Colleagues, this obviously deserves attention. That is why we are repeating it. [[Comments]] As I said, this intervention stems from the need to put the spotlight on what happened a few days ago, about the case of the heinous murder of Jamal Khashoggi... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u27	Senator Pharaoh, I'm calling you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u28	LEONE (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. He is the journalist, opponent of the regime of Riad, who showed himself to stand up against the choices of Prince Moğammad bin Salman, murdered on October 2, 2018. This case, which involved precisely the Saudi prince bin Salman, demands an assumption of responsibility and seriousness, both from the media narrative on the case, and from Senator Renzi. So let's retrace what happened: the Senator in question triggers the crisis in Italy, in a more fragile, complex and complicated historical moment than ever before, releasing two ministers and a Undersecretary. He, however, in the midst of a crisis, as a well-paid lecturer, goes to Saudi Arabia, returns to Italy for consultations with President Mattarella and, at the time of the television report, skilfully transforms that brief moment of involvement of our fellow citizens into a real meeting, highlighting the importance of the issues and the welfare of the community, not of the armchairs. Alas, today we learn and see that Senator Renzi - a well-paid lecturer, I repeat - praised Prince Moğammad bin Salman, supposedly in charge of the murder of Khashoggi. We also note that, in the negotiations, he called for the re-establishment of armchairs: on the issues we will see. In the meantime it would be interesting to know how many times, from that October 2, 2018, the day of the assassination of Khashoggi, the Senator of the Republic Renzi went to Saudi Arabia. Certainly the role of lecturer has obtained it precisely thanks to politics and politics should resign, given the seriousness of these facts, which is also found in the bitter complicity of the press, from the silence however deafening. Hoping therefore that Senator Renzi can resign as soon as possible, I remind him of his own words, with which he promised to clarify everything the week after the end of the government crisis. Senator, we look forward to this, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank our Foreign Minister, Luigi Di Maio, for his hard work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u29	Senator Leone, I'm sorry you were interrupted. I would have given you a few more seconds because of the interruption, on the other hand, by the Parent Company of a party with which you are allied.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u30	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-301.ana.u31	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday 3 March, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.57 p.m.
