ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u3	I communicate that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 25 May 2021, n. 73, introducing urgent measures related to the emergency from COVID-19, for enterprises, work, young people, health and territorial services" (2320).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law n. 2005, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Boldrini and Hope MPs; Zan and others; Scalfarotto and others; Perantoni and others; Bartolozzi. I would point out that Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, although not sitting on the benches of the Executive, is present in the Chamber representing the Government. He is registered to speak Senator Emanuele Pellegrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u5	Mr President, before I speak, I would like to make a premise concerning the work of the Commission on justice in relation to the draft law that we are dealing with today. Speaking of the Commission's work, I can only thank President Ostellari for the work he has done, for the report he has done just yesterday and in recent days. I thank him, unlike what has been said several times in all the forums, both parliamentary and television and media, for the attempt at mediation he has made. I must also thank him for having endured in a stoic way the attacks, which I call shameful, by all the media apparatus that has come to build around the discussion of this bill that has led to not fully understand its actual contents. These contents were probably not even addressed by those who earn with followers and posts on Facebook and Instagram, but I do not want to pay too much attention to these people because we are interested in the merit of this measure, unlike - I repeat - what was also said in this House yesterday and on previous days. Having said that, I want to thank President Ostellari also because, starting the discussion of the bill, we wanted to bring the content to the centre, but to address the content of a measure of this type we have correctly requested a series of hearings since - it has already been remembered by other colleagues - the content of the bill, and therefore of the hearings held in the Chamber, was different from that of the measure currently being examined in the Senate. We held about 70 hearings, as well as collecting a lot of material from all those who wanted to say their own about this law text. 70 hearings are many, and I find it quite frankly scandalous - I say this with full awareness - that a certain part of this House finds the number of hearings inadequate simply because in many of them the concept that was being transmitted was probably exactly what we continue to support, namely that the bill in our examination does not really support the fight against discrimination and incitement to hatred. [[Applause]] I remember that - as Senator Malan said just yesterday, if I remember correctly - a series of draft laws for which 120 hearings were held were carried out in the field of foster care at the beginning of the parliamentary term. My group, the League, didn't say they didn't want to audition 120. We have decided to listen to everyone's thoughts on a subject that is far less divisive than what we are facing today. None of us said anything because we listen, so much so that a number of positive contributions had come out of the hearings. But then, unfortunately, that bill has come to a halt and I hope it is only for now, because that too is a subject that must not be abandoned and must be supported. What happens to us? I distinctly recall that, at the beginning of the pseudo-debate in the Commission on the Zan bill, Senator Cirinna issued a press release - in this case it is the facts, with the words we find written in the newspapers - in which she clearly said that the bill should have been approved as it is. I am notoriously a fan of perfect bicameralism, because I believe that comparison in multiple locations can lead to a more effective and truly pluralistic norm. On the other hand, I note that a certain political part obviously continues to be in favour of monocameralism, except then to be part of this House, with all the benefits that this entails. This idea of democracy is a good one: on the one hand we vote and on the other we take note. I do not agree with this approach, because it is genuinely undemocratic. [[Applause.]] However, I would also like to call for another step in the Commission, because this has not gone through properly. I am telling you with open heart that I have always been very proud to sit in this House, because I believe it is a privilege to represent the people and the citizens and I really believe in this mission. A few months ago, during a session of the Commission - we were in the Zuccari room: I remember very well - I saw a genuinely shameful spectacle, in which a debate, which was to be on the substance of the measure under consideration, turned into a series of screams, dauntings and insults. It was truly an unbecoming spectacle, so much so that I, who had previously kept silent because I wanted to listen - in fact they taught me that before contributing, we must listen to the ideas of others - on that occasion I took the floor and manifested all my discomfort and, forgive me, even my disgust, in assisting to how the parliamentary function can go down. At times we have also seen it in these days: we have forgotten what it means to discuss the rule on the substance: to discuss the rule on the substance and to do it well is beneficial to those who voted for us and we must not forget it. Really on that occasion I felt a sense of inadequacy, because I really felt what it means not to be in line with what was happening. There was no talk of law in the Justice Commission. On the contrary, we must talk about the right, the way in which a rule is made and the way in which rights are protected, but we did not do so on that occasion. I believe that behavior of this kind is likely to turn the fathers of law and the constituent Fathers. When we walk through these corridors, we read some writings and really see who fought for freedom and for the representativeness of the people. When we go to the Commissions or come to this House and say certain things, we should probably remember and read those written, because in this way we can really resolve the problems that we have to face here. The discussion that had to be started was not about the protection of a number of people or another, but we had to impress it on respect. We can talk about anything, but if we don't talk about respect for all categories, we don't go to the goal. [[Applause]] I have absolutely nothing against any of the categories that we can go to protect with the draft law under consideration, and indeed I consider myself to be very broad visions, much more than we probably think. But I also believe in a fundamental principle, so my freedom ceases where others begin. This is a basic principle of respect, which we must always keep in mind. I don't want to make any personal attacks at all. Yesterday Senator Maiorino said that people must be at the center and that today there are no tools to protect the people who are called here. I would like to remind Senator Maiorino that probably what he is looking for is not in the text, but it is with respect that I recalled before, that comes from the heart and the head, not from a norm. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. Within this bill there is also talk of disability. However, I would like to make one very simple point: if we make a special rule for a special situation, we do not protect the special... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I would like to remind everyone of a phrase that I think is known to many; I would like to conclude my speech in this way, precisely in order to try to leave a seed. I think it is necessary to educate the new generations to the value of defeat. To his management. To the humanity that comes from it. To build an identity capable of experiencing a common destiny, where one can fail and start again without its value and dignity being affected. Not to become a social clipper, not to pass on the body of others to arrive first. In this world of vulgar and dishonest winners, of false and opportunist wrongdoers, of the people who count, who occupy power, who snatch the present, let alone the future, to all the neurotics of success, of appearance, of becoming... To this anthropology of the winner I prefer by far those who lose. It's an exercise I'm good at. And reconciles me with my little sacred. (Pier Paolo Pasolini). [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u6	Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u7	Mr President, this is a case in which we should talk about dialogue between deaf people, but in reality it is a dialogue between deaf people and dialogue. There is a political part here which refuses to accept amending proposals, arguing that the text is already going well. However, criticism was raised at the hearing. I am thinking, for example, of the hearing of the Chief Prosecutor Domenico Airoma, who, emphasizing his purely technical intervention, as an operator of the law called to apply the rules, said, in essence, that some parts of the measure are lacking the necessary requirements of typicality and taxableness of the incriminating case; as if to say that the area of what is criminally important is uncertain. The text contains the introduction of a special effect and on this special aggravating factor we have already said that we have no particular objections, except those relating, if necessary, to a better wording of the text. The principle that there are offences committed for discriminatory purposes is fair and correct; the idea that you can commit a crime because you may move from hatred towards an LGBT person provokes reprobation and repulsion. But the text did not stop at this; the text tried to do much more. I am referring to that part of the text where a real new criminal case is introduced, the one on which the prosecutor focused his attention at the hearing (and not just him). I sued him because the D.A. spoke as a technician. The rule provides for imprisonment for those who instigate or commit acts of discrimination based on sex, gender, sexual orientation and was built by replicating the one already in force, which affects discriminatory acts for racial reasons. I understand the logic of who wrote the text, thinking, for example, of that operator of a public exercise that, outside his disco, writes: This is where homosexuals don't come in. Of course, this arouses indignation, but the problem is that the concept of race is despicable, because the races do not exist: we men are all born equal, the color of the skin, the pigmentation is as good as the length of the hair or the color of the eyes, it is worth nothing before the law [[Applause]] While, therefore, the concept of race is false and despicable, the concept of sex is not false, there is genetically the difference between man and woman and this we cannot deny, so much so that even transsexual people want to change sex, proving that there is a difference. Yay that difference, they said. There is a problem when you type an incriminating case that aims to affect discrimination on grounds of sex, which we may even punish; however, there are already other sanctions for the public operator that prevents homosexuals from entering the premises, but - why not? - even to southerners or immigrants, however regular they may be. However, it becomes a crime or at least integrates the material extremes of the crime to give life to an organization that intends to support only heterosexual parenthood, because this too becomes technically discrimination; everyone thinks that it is a reasonable discrimination, but the norm does not allow such distinction. From this point of view the norm is technically wrong because it will suffice to incriminate even once a person who intends to distinguish on the basis of his social and religious convictions, to intimidate all others to manifest their opinion. This doesn't have to happen, because criminal law isn't about hitting a target by shooting shots. Criminal law is a serious matter, which requires precise and punctual rules, because to strike even one innocent in the name of an ideal that is considered right means to be Jacobins and we know for what reason history has delivered this name to sad memories. I must say that yesterday - and I say this with pride and boast - it was an honor to have an interview with Franco Grillini, with whom I discussed these problems. Franco, who took the opportunity to say goodbye, told me to be careful because the norm that I criticize and in reality is present in many other systems. He's right, he's right. I went to look for a comparative law study in which other systems there is something similar: well, since 2015 there is a rule very similar to ours, to what we are talking about, in the Spanish order, in the codigo penal. I don't read it to you, but it's more or less comparable to the one we're discussing. From here the extensor of the norm has taken the passage. So if he's in Spain, okay? No, because fortunately the Internet is not only the place where we insult ourselves, in the face of tolerance, on Facebook, but it is also the place where you can download scientific articles. If you consult Google Books or Google Scholar, you will find many articles in Spanish that report the serious difficulties in interpreting that accompany the application of this rule. In Spain, there are serious difficulties in establishing the difference between lawful and illegal discrimination, so that a circular from the Spanish Public Prosecutor's Office became necessary in 2019 to clarify how the provision should be applied to prosecutors. These uncertainties still exist today, so much so that someone has proposed repealing the rule. So, if someone before us has tried and the results are disappointing, if there is concern in Spain that that rule may compress the freedom to express their opinions, why should we make the same mistake? [[Applause]] It is not in question - be careful - to decide whether to be here, now, now, for or against the homosexual family. That's not what we're talking about. We need to decide whether to allow a colleague like Simone Pillon to say his own. Simone Pillon, who many of you are opposed to, must be opposed to opinions, not putting his gag on him, not preventing him from speaking. [[Applause]] If you want to counter it, do it with ideas, do it with arguments, do it with reasoning, but not threatening a criminal sanction. In schools tolerance must be taught. There is a slip within the norm: while the penalty is aimed at protecting the disabled, you have forgotten the disabled in the rules that instead intend to teach tolerance in schools. So let me get this straight: it's okay to protect people with disabilities by criminal law, but then what do we teach students? That there are more deserving categories of protection, even weak ones, to the detriment of others? That's not good. In schools, we must teach children to be good citizens, to respect one another, and this is not taught if we first reject dialogue and believe that the other side is objectively wrong, regardless. This text must be reformed, for good, for the benefit of those categories that we want to defend. There is no infallibility of one House at the expense of the other. This is a bicameralism that serves precisely to correct errors, to reflect and to understand where to intervene in order to deliver a clear text and easy to apply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u8	Senator Masini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a bill that does not speak of gestation for others, does not speak of adoptions and does not speak of gender theory or other situations that I have heard mentioned in this House; it speaks of a very simple thing: how to extend the cases of hate crimes also to discrimination and acts of violence committed by reason of sex, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity of a person. It therefore calls for the rule to be extended and, among other things, only in the part relating to the incitement to violence and not also to propaganda, as already for crimes due to reasons of race, ethnicity, nationality and religion. On the subject of homo-lesbo-bi-transphobia and other discrimination, our country has bags of serious backwardness and this cannot be denied or diminished. According to Eurobarometer, Italy, among the advanced countries, is among those where the population has more difficulty in accepting a joint society, to the point of believing, in large numbers, that homosexuals should not have the same rights as heterosexuals. It is therefore a question, this, that should not see us sided in opposite typhoseries, but committed to act to change the state of things, well aware that the rights and freedoms are not all equal and that natural rights, that is, the freedom to exist, to be, to live and to live fully one's existence, without fear, come before the fact that one can feel free to express oneself, to the point of undermining the other dignity. Freedom from fear is the first of freedoms, because without this, all others are not usable, they are empty freedoms. What I said was quite clear to John Locke when he said that there was a limit of tolerance towards intolerance and that freedom is not without borders. For we are not free to kill or steal; we are not also free, therefore, to undermine the serenity and security of the existence of another human being by virtue of prejudice over its nature. All this is also clear to our Constitutional Charter, which sets out in its first 12 articles the fundamental principles of our Republic and which in Articles 2 and 3 speaks to us, precisely, of the inviolable rights of man, such as equal social dignity without any distinction, to the point that it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles that prevent the full development of the human person. Article 21 on freedom of expression, in any case nothing at all undermined by this law, as already clarified by numerous constitutionalists, albeit important, comes after, long after Articles 2 and 3. Given the importance of the issues in question, therefore, it would have been a good signal to have more sharing on the one hand and more mediation on the other. I think it was wrong for those who, at an early stage, when the bill was in the House, chose to stay out of the debate, sometimes also using presumptuous attitudes or arguments that were manifestly incorrect; but in the same way today I believe that it is wrong for those who persist in closing positions to a further confrontation, delegitizing their aims. I think you have to try every last one because, however you want to put it, one last possible mile for an attempt to meet is still there. I am not saying that it will lead to a result - I cannot know that - but I know that it is necessary to try if we really care about all the rights here and not the flags. I claim in Forza Italia a constructive attitude, also in the work in the Commission already at the time of the House; but at the time, the excessive polarization of the parties, for which there had been no openness to the dialogue that there was here, led to the work that did not come out well: proof is that article 4 we wanted that maybe it is, in my opinion, the most critical of the norm, more redundant, more lacunacy and more insidious. In this area of Parliament something has changed, and I finally hear even less about statistics in support of those who claim that there is a non-problem because of the low number of cases of specific violence reported. We are beginning to understand that these data are not correct, because other data and statistics tell us that, unfortunately, instead, our country is put very badly at the level of tolerance and respect, as I have already said. It tells us, then, the State Police that crimes and discrimination of this type are on the increase - excuse me, I miss the air - and respond to features of under-reporting and under-recording which seem less than they really are. This is why they are not collected from specific statistics. Under-reporting is the victim's difficulty in denouncing the aggression suffered for what it is, for fear, shame and for many other reasons, while under-recording responds to the difficulties, for the police organs, to record the data correctly, also here for various factors, not least because there is no specific norm in which to catalogue them. Therefore, we really need to be concerned with expanding the perimeter of hate crimes, filling a regulatory vacuum. Hate crimes are specific crimes; those who are victims, are victims for what they represent with their identity as a human being, are not victims for a futile chance. The reason is linked to the essence, to the dignity, to the freedom to exist of that individual and to the community he represents. The reason is substantial, it is significant and finally, if you accept that 604-bis of the penal code has been dedicated for reasons beyond the nature of the individual, I suppose you can accept it for that too. It must be said, then, that the victim of humiliation and discrimination cares about the right to know that there will be a more severe penalty; what is really important is something else, namely living in an adult, mature, respect-educated society. 10:08 a.m. (Follows Masini). Civil society is a conscious majority; Italians are in favour of such a law (...) excuse me... PRESIDENT. Don't worry, Senator, take the time you need. Masini (FIBP-UDC). Unfortunately I got to the last second and I miss the air because I took the stairs. It must be said that the victim of humiliation cares about the right, what matters is a society educated to respect. Civil society is a ready and conscious majority. Italians in fact say they are in favour of a law of this kind, even this one, as it is, even with all the criticalities, some objective, and the fears that have been passed on to them. Among these favorable Italians, since numbers are not opinions, there are also center-right voters. For my party we are talking about 48 percent in favour; it will be less or more the point is not that. The point for me is to respond to those who want to believe that a position like mine is not proper to a certain electorate, because it is. Of course, I repeat, to arrive at a broader and more shared path, filing some vagueness, without thereby distorting the regulatory system, it would be desirable and the attitude of closure and only forcing is not good either for rights or for democracy. I know, however, that it would be a great defeat to see once again a draft law die for which, in twenty-five years, every time a legislative process has been attempted, it has not been completed and has been buried in one of the two branches of Parliament. Twenty-five years that a community of people is forced to feel the daughter of a minor State; twenty-five years in which Italy retreats from positions of civilization present in other countries to us brothers by culture and democratic level, where laws like these have been voted by governments of all political colors. When my mother understood me, she told me, "I'm afraid for you."All parents are afraid for their children, for their future, for their health, for an accident, for a bitter chance of fate, but not everyone is forced to be afraid for an immature society, which believes that your son or daughter can or should be a more vulnerable subject for what she is. I hope to all of you that you will be able to look your loved ones, those of today and those of tomorrow, and also those who tomorrow will be different from your desires and be able to tell them, in my little one, I have protected you from fear. I thank my group leader Anna Maria Bernini, my fellow senators and my party Forza Italia for the respect that has always shown me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u10	Thank you, Senator Masini, we listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u11	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, the Zan bill aims to protect everyone, the LGBT community, women, men, the disabled, from so-called hate crimes, i.e. the incitement to commit violent or discriminatory acts against them. The draft law we are debating today, already approved in the Chamber of Deputies, consists of several articles which modify the crimes against equality provided for in Articles 604-a and 604-b of the penal code to add to discrimination for racial, ethnic, national and religious reasons, including discriminatory acts based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and disability. The expression sexual orientation is already used in Italian legislation, for example, in the Privacy Code, which states that Article 7 states that public administrations guarantee equality and equal opportunities between men and women and the absence of any form of discrimination, direct or indirect, relating to gender, age, sexual orientation, race, ethnic origin, disability, religion or language in access to employment, treatment and working conditions, vocational training, promotions and safety at work. The expression gender identity can be found, for example, in the penitentiary order in Article 1, where it requires that the penitentiary treatment be imprinted with absolute impartiality without discrimination in order, inter alia, to sex, gender identity and sexual orientation. This bill, which we hope will end its course with its approval, intervenes only against those who incite to commit or commit acts of discrimination and violence. We are the last country among the founders of the European Union to have no criminal law in this regard. There is a strong need to protect victims and prevent violence of all kinds, both physical and verbal, and to understand the need and urgency of a just law against misogyny and homotransphobia is enough to look around, open the pages of a newspaper and simply talk to the victims of discrimination, the victims of hatred and a system in which the different is pointed out as a person to fear, because you do not know it, you have not understood its diversity well and therefore you are afraid of it. This is why it is a necessary and urgent law, because Italy needs to strengthen the culture of equality and respect for the other and this can happen by punishing hatred and violence, promoting concrete cultural and social actions for the support of victims, to explain and make understand that diversity must not be frightened, but it is a peculiarity of nature, as is biodiversity, and as such it must be evaluated or - I would say - re-evaluated. [[Applause]] And that is exactly what the Zan bill does: prevent, counter, support, raise awareness, create union and not divide. The news reports denounced by numerous national and local newspapers have signalled the exponential increase, both in numbers and in seriousness, of acts of violence, actions linked to discrimination, for reasons of sexual orientation and gender identity oriented to hitting the different, to hit people with disabilities. The law also provides for the recovery of those who commit the crime through various routes within voluntary organizations. In this sense, the sanction will be re-educational, as provided for in Article 27 of the Constitution. In addition, training initiatives are being put in place in schools to combat homotransphobic bullying and all other forms. And here I come back to the disabled: of course, in these days it is much more a scene to talk about the differences related to sex, but simply because our society is accustomed to dealing with this is of great impact, but few have put their attention on the disabled, who are fortunately provided by the bill, the so-called disabled. They certainly are less arousing, because they continue to remain in the shadows, but Article 3 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities recognizes them for the first time explicitly as part of human diversity and humanity itself. The principle states that being a disabled person is not better or worse than not to be disabled and that it is not the characteristics of an individual who defines it as disadvantaged, but the context in which it is inserted. In other words, disability is the result of the interaction between individual conditions, defined out of the norm, and a society not prepared to accept them. It is not by chance that people with disabilities are called "disabled" in English, rendered unfit by the context, built to the size of normalised citizens. Discrimination against the disabled is: they are called skill, they are manifestations of skillful violence, physical or verbal aggressions, such as "you are a handicapped person" or "you are a Down." Continuing news reports denounce episodes of real violence, such as those occurring in a residential structure for disabled guests in Palermo, or of aggressions such as that suffered by a girl with disabilities, beaten by a group of peers in Rome, or even in cases of mistreatment of disabled people by their families. Then there is a more subtle form of skill, that is, the tendency to define people solely on the basis of their disability, referring them in a stereotyped way and connoting their diversity with a sense of inferiority. Look, being a disabled woman is more stigmatizing than being a skilled woman or a disabled man; being a lesbian or trans woman with disabilities has an even greater impact. Being a woman is conditioned by being a disabled person or vice versa, as well as being a lesbian or trans condition one's own way of living femininity and disability. What am I getting at? To the fact that being a woman, trans, disabled and homosexual is not monolithic blocks, but they influence each other: LGBT people with disabilities are victims of multiple discriminations, just like women with disabilities, because discriminations do not add up, but multiply. I can't forget the disabled. You don't know what that means when your daughter comes home and says, They told me I was different. I'm not like them and I can't play with them, either when he comes back with the sweatshirt all drawn with unpleasing writings or they have invented a game to mock her, in which they make her bark, throw the ball and she makes the dog to carry; you will say that it is little, because she wasn't beaten, but they whipped her soul and the scars will carry them forever. This bill is therefore not dangerous. Who is it for? For the normal ones? And what is normality? [[Applause]] What I'm trying to tell you is that the situation is delicate. I trust in an effort of cohesion in the majority: it is time to overcome fears, to have the courage to change for the better and to go further, to unite with a thread the network of life. This bill does not harm anyone and does not remove rights; if anything, it adds an extra piece to the mosaic of equality in our country. We of the Movimento 5 Stars support this bill, because the Movimento has always been for the defense of the rights of all and especially of those who are often forgotten, because in this one Planet that we have we are one and only community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today is not at all obvious, nor secondary, as someone wants us to believe. We are in this Chamber debating a draft law which is nothing more than a gag imposed by the dictatorship of the single thought which, using the excuse of discrimination, which has already been punished by the current system, with its aggravating effects, is actually trying to eliminate any possible voice of dissent. The Zan bill is ideological, profoundly wrong and undemocratic. The truth is that, behind many politically correct representatives who are fighting for this proposal today, there are in reality giants of finance and marketing, who promote a consumerist lifestyle, intent on annihilating all forms of identity and difference, from gender to dissident thinking. The plan is clearly to create an army of puppets, who, commercializing their lives and getting profiled in everything, go to form the archetype of the perfect consumer, canceling every personal choice. [[Applause]] Today someone would like to live in a society that denies the figures of father and mother for those of parent 1 and parent 2: no longer male and female, but an indeterminate and self-determined being, with the paradox of not stopping at mankind. If that were the case, what could we do if someone were to feel like they belong to the animal or come from another planet? Excessive freedom inevitably leads to the annulment of the truth, causing regulatory chaos and watering down the right measures that already exist against discrimination. We are convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that in politics the right and necessary claims of rights must follow a very precise legislative line, otherwise we risk a short circuit, as in the case of the Zan bill, which we are discussing today. To date, there is already a potentially unlimited number of genres: for example, the famous social network Facebook, in the registration phases, censisce already several, but these how can be determined and identified, if the genre is an arbitrary and non-biological choice? How can limits be set to legislate and certify membership, more or less lasting in time, of a certain kind? If a person chooses a different person every day, how to take measures to support a particular category, such as in the case of pink quotas, feminicide, the work of different categories, sports and prison regimes? We increasingly affirm the value of gender equality and of forgetting the differences, indeed the beautiful gender differences that nature has created between men and women. If there are no differences, will it mean that tomorrow punching a man or a woman in the face will have the same social impact? Will the abuse of women and other self-determinating genders also be sanctioned? Do you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that, without difference, or direction, there would be no more protection for the most fragile groups? This is a real reverse discrimination. Presenting the Zan bill only as a proposal to add to the list of categories particularly protected by the Mancino law also those discriminated against by sex, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity is extremely misleading. Who wouldn't agree with that? Discriminating someone for futile reasons, because he dresses in a certain way or is homosexual, is absolutely crazy and must be severely punished, but are we really sure that extending the list of these categories does not in itself constitute a discrimination against others? Are homeless people, overweight people, those with psychic disorders or simply a more fragile build more discriminatory? No, dear friends: the truth is that we must recognize that the law already now severely punishes all forms of discrimination, already understanding the aggravating factors that Zan's bill would like to introduce. Simply see the number of judgments that rightly confirm what has been said. As proof of the fact that the Zan bill is oriented, rather than to combat discrimination, to assert a new ideology, it would suffice to observe carefully the same legislative proposals that Mr Zan and others have presented in the past, in which all references to gender identity, school indoctrination and other controversial points were not even considered (as in the 2013 bill, whose first signatories were Mrs Scalfarotto and Mr Zan, or the 2018 bill, whose first signatories were Mr Zan and Mr Annibali). Why, then, just add them now? If it had been just a bill against discrimination, we would probably have voted it all unanimously, but the truth is that the design is very different and subtle. Not only that, but to date - we must remember - there is no emergency in Italy linked to the problem of homotransphobia, that is, an alarming spread of violence or discrimination based on sexual orientation, so as to make further intervention by the legislator necessary. Although our country is perceived - indeed, it is perceived - by someone as homophobic, the data does not support this media suggestion. The EU's largest European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA) research revealed, both in 2014, and in 2020, that Italy is among the safest countries in Europe with regard to concrete episodes of violence, threat and discrimination. That is why, in conclusion, Mr President, on the contrary, I have the impression that the real objective of this bill is to allow anyone to speak and to support their opposition to a minority which continues to assume the right to impose its own vision. However, we as Brothers of Italy, in order to defend the principles and values that have forged our millennial culture, will continue our battle of freedom, without hatred and without any discrimination. We will make him aware of going against the tide, for the sole purpose of not allowing the annihilation of our civilization, condemned to succumb to an evil that is nullifying it irreparablely. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u15	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u16	Mr President, initially I did not have much intention of speaking on this subject, although I really like the debate and, indeed, someone quite rightly points out that I speak too much. In the end, however, I gave in to the temptation to speak on this subject. What struck me so much, that I read in the articles of some commentator in the newspapers and that I wanted to reiterate publicly, is the following: how is it possible that the Senate - as probably happened in the House - has been reduced to a war, by someone called Manichea (but you choose the term you prefer), on such a subject, at a political moment like this? At first, when we started talking about the Zan bill, I didn't have that much of a problem. Wrong, I said to myself: with everything to be approved - especially in the Justice Commission, where we are considering a series of reforms, which would be the urgent ones, for which the President of the Council is talking to the leaders of all the parties - now, because there is a hurry, we certainly cannot go bogged down in a divisive subject, all the more so because, among other things, the President of the Council, supported by a large majority, had kindly asked to avoid them. [[Applause]] So what do we do? Of course, I take my share of responsibility, because I underestimated the issue, I admit. We can create a precedent that I have never seen in the Senate: for goodness' sake, I am in the first legislature, but I can say that in the current one it had never happened that an act suddenly arrived in the Chamber, without an analysis in the Commission. Eventually, the famous mediations could have been found there. We found a lot of them, didn't we? I remind someone that there have been, but let's forget about the precedents, otherwise I lose track of the reasoning. I think there is a fundamental point. I ask myself the question and I address it to all of you. In your opinion, when we go to vote, in 2022 or 2023, the political forces will receive a judgment from the citizens on the basis of this opposition, which will last three or four days, or how much and how much we have supported the action of a government that must pull us out of the pandemic and the economic crisis [[Applause]] or, again, based on the fact that, having some data so that you turn around without a mask, this has meant that, like the kindergarten children, we have done a sort of free den all? Such a thing is not possible, also because being together, as we see every day, is a matter that weighs. I cannot understand why the burden should be borne, on the one hand, and the results should not be collected, on the other hand, when we then have a government that takes them home and speaks little. So we should talk; it should be the political forces that explain to the citizens what good is being done. Instead, we have a week to discuss this, with an impressive media clamor. Nobody discusses the things that happen. Yesterday the President of the Council went to prison and spoke clearly of a collective defeat. We can't be completely distonic about what the government does. We could slip into some flags, but we can't be distonic; having made a division of this kind, in my opinion, is distonic and wrong, because there were a thousand ways to deal with this bill. [[Applause. Comments]] I don't know if I'm bossy, but I think it's a myopia problem. Politics doesn't last for twenty-four hours: the difference is made by those who look beyond. That is the fundamental point. [[Applause]] I tell myself first and I tell everyone. The famous "vision" is very important, because it is the one that distinguishes and I would not want it to be misunderstood as a term, but it is about the ability to look far away. Let's look away for that, too. We have problems and we know very well, because the House has also discussed them, and the fundamental issues are related to the concept of incitement. I am not saying that again, as many colleagues have explained this much better than I do. We risk having a system in which in practice the subtle boundary between freedom of thought and incitement can become deflagrant. Many have said that and I would like to mention what the representatives of the Union of Catholic jurists have rightly pointed out in the documents presented at the hearing, because they have examined, in my opinion, very balanced, which should be remembered. Having said that, the reason why I felt it appropriate to speak is to remind ourselves of the priorities. We have regulations that could - but must not - find delays. I think that is right and that it is also the time that we focus on those, because, in my opinion, before the summer break, we have to put some points on the reforms that concern the justice sector. We must do so in our Commission, with all the related and related opinions, which naturally belong to the Budget Commission. I conclude by saying that, in particular, I don't like one thing about the Zan bill. I am referring to the fact that the section on disabled people has also been added. You'll ask me why (I want them insulted? No. I think it is hypocrisy, because those who want a disabled person not to be discriminated against must have the courage - which, I do not know why, we cannot have - to change, for starters, Law No 68 of 1999, because the disabled person is humiliated and discriminated against when he is looking for a job, which - we know very well - companies do not give him, because they prefer to pay the fine. [[Applause]] This is much more scandalous, in my opinion, or, better, it is not more scandalous, because everything is scandalous, but the issue of disabled people, in my opinion, must be addressed in another context, also because we already have a tail of straw, because the pensions for disabled people have been raised only following a judgment of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause]] I respect the positions of everyone and I am in Forza Italia for this, for freedom, for respect especially for that of others and people who want to live their lives as they think. However, I do not agree with mixing deeply different issues and I hope that the way in which incitement has been conceived will not become a boomerang in the future. Colleagues, let's remember that we are all together to do things and, kindly, let's focus on this, since we all have to be together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u17	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like many of you, I have been in this House for about three years - some have certainly been there longer - I have been a regional adviser, I live in Tuscany and I have met many people. I meet people who have problems with their company and work and who in this pandemic have really lost a lot and suffer. All these years, however, I have never found people who tell me they feel discriminated against because we use the words mom and dad, instead of parent 1 and parent 2. I'll give you some data. Colleagues, we have been closed here in the Senate for months to have this discussion and sometimes it seems to me that you really live on Mars. If you open the papers too, you find that 10 million people will be able to enter the poverty crisis and we are here to talk about the Zan bill. In Florence - so I tell you - 422 workers are fired by the GKN, from evening to morning, via email, but we are here to talk about the Zan bill. There is the Covid and there is an increase in suicides, reaching 4,000 a year in Italy, but we are here in the Chamber talking about the Zan bill. You force us to talk about this issue, on which I will then go into, to propose a solution, which is simple. There are immigrants landing in our country. In 2019, from 1 January to 14 July, there were 3,186, with Minister Salvini. From 1 January 2021 to today, however, 24,000 immigrants have landed and we are here in the Chamber to talk about the Zan bill. I do not mention the problems of VAT consignments, because perhaps you know them too. What, then, is the battle? Let us think about the objectives and not the ideologies. Colleagues, I think that we and you have a common goal and definitely shared by most of you, which is to increase the penalties for those who discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation and their vocations. We agree on that. If that is the common objective, I believe that in fifteen to twenty days or in one month you can approve the draft law under consideration: just take the article in which you increase the penalties in case of discrimination. Instead, what is your goal (I don't mean everyone, but some of you)? To understand that, we read the articles on which we disagree. Let's take Article 1, for example, so it stays in the record. Surely some citizens have read it and others hear us arguing: we all agree on increasing penalties for those who discriminate, but we disagree on these points. So I read a part of Article 1 and then I will also read others: "Gender identity" means self-identification perceived and manifested in relation to gender, even if not gender-related, regardless of whether or not a transition path has been completed. What does that mean? We have to explain it. Let us agree on increasing the penalties for those who discriminate. Let us read, for example, Article 4, which I think is the most worrying of all. There is talk of freedom of choice, provided that it is not suitable to determine the real danger of carrying out discriminatory acts. What is a discriminatory act? So we leave a margin open to the judiciary. If I say I prefer "mom" to "parent 1" or "parent 2" (then you will teach me if 1 is mom and 2 is dad, because there is a discussion there too), is it discriminatory or not? What if he wakes up a magistrate and sends you a warranty notice why you discriminate? There may be many examples. If I go to class and say that I prefer the crib instead of doing nothing, is it discriminatory or not? We delete these points and approve a law that we agree with. If the objective is common, I invite you to reason on it, not on what divides us today, but on what we all agree on. But perhaps your goal is different and it is to destroy the values of this civilization, our traditions. To destroy a tree, the roots are removed; when you remove them, you destroy the tree and all values. [[Applause]] What is your intent, then, to destroy values or to help? What is your goal? Let's stop. If the common objective is to give greater punishment to those who discriminate, let's do it. Why do you have to introduce all these pieces, which then also create the fear of saying a joke with friends? I happened to hear a seven-year-old ask me if they can marry two men or two women. Where did you learn that? Let them play and live their youth; then the educators will think about helping them, with the family. Most of you certainly do this in good faith, but I think that someone in this House is doing it in bad faith to take away the values of our community and our civilization. I live in Tuscany and I bring you the example of the community "Il Forteto," which perhaps started with good ideas, to help some children; then in the end it evolved and we all saw what happened. Let us stop, reason and approve the increase in penalties for those who discriminate, but let us remove everything else. On this the League is there, we are there; we make this law something common sense and truly important for the country, which is watching us today. I conclude by saying that I prefer "mom" and "dad" to "parent 1" and "parent 2": I say this before this law enters into force, because then maybe it will be considered a discriminatory act. Thank you and good work to everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u20	Mr President, I must say that we have heard a very wide and varied roundup of speeches, which certainly enrich such an important debate. I come from a political world - I want to tell my colleagues on the left - which knows very well what it means to be discriminated against: in schools, at work, in everyday life and in politics. For us, without making the victimism that certainly does not belong to us, it has sometimes been difficult even to express our ideas. We have suffered discrimination that has come to violence, because we are here without ever forgetting the blood of so many children who have died on the streets, on which we still have to investigate and about which too little has been said. Coming from a history of discrimination without solidarity, I cannot and cannot fail to agree with any initiative that would help those who are discriminated against to feel less alone, more accepted and more integrated in society, because everyone has the right to be happy and to live their lives fully. However, we hear the supporters of this bill say that there is a plot of the obscurantist right to obscure such a project of civilization. The reality, however, is that this movement is not born from below, as I have heard in this House, nor is it inspired by realities of real, intimately relevant discomfort, that there are also and that we must take care of. The truth is that this movement draws its lifeblood from the multinationals, from those who run social networks, from the great television productions and from the great centers of financial power. This mechanism is aligned in the promotion of the LGBT movement. Let me say this: this movement is powerful. Which one of you doesn't watch Netflix? Look at the productions and what future the great powerful of this world have imagined for us, so the order is to kneel at the Black lives matter. We saw it in the final of the European football championships, in which even more than the flags of the national states, the rainbow one has become fundamental: the stadiums must be colored with the rainbow flag; if you do not, you are a retrograde, just because you think that maybe for a child it is appropriate to have a father and a mother of different sex. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u21	Please, Senator Ruspandini, as you know, I'll call anyone back. Senator, at this moment your voice is surpassing that of the colleague who is intervening, so, first of all, out of respect for your colleague and for the House, I also invite you not to gesticulate, because it is not respectful, nor even less welcome. Please, Senator Ruspandini, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u22	Ruspandini (FdI). In addition to ridiculing and punishing those who, for example, think that it is appropriate for a child to have a father and a mother of different sex, the order of the champions of globalism and the most extremist progressiveism (the influencers, the singers, the footballers and the whole star system: we know the scheme well, because it has already " happened" in the United States of America) is to ghettoize all those who think differently, starting from the East of our Europe: the barbarians of Orban and those rogue states that have only a more traditionalist vision of life are to be punished, but nobody says a word about the millions of Muslims who let you enter Europe, who come from countries where homosexuality, when it goes well, is seen as a disease, and, when it goes wrong, is punished with the death penalty. [[Applause]] Instead of talking about Orban, see who you're bringing in from our borders right now. [[Applause]] You take it out on us when, as you know, you are organizing the world football championships in Qatar; so, the multinationals first took the money and now organize the World Cup in Qatar, forgetting a detail: in that country Qatar is discussing whether women are up to the point of entering the game! [[Applause]] Where are the multinationals of unique thought? [[Applause]] Where are the sirens of common sense and civilization, as well as rainbow flags in schools? Where are they? The money comes first, then it's clear we have rights. First the god money. I mean, I could talk for hours. Other Members have wanted to focus on the legal issues that the draft law puts in place, but the hypocrisy that implies this proposal is before everyone's eyes. They claim to plan a society in which there are no non-negotiable principles, they expand rights and they destroy, they disintegrate and they twist their identities, without thinking that, by breaking down the roots, they do a damage to all people, especially the weakest ones. The real risk, as has already been said, is that this social megaexperiment, which is the basis of the phenomena that manage this world as a great puppeteers, actually, behind a false promotion of love, hides a propaganda of hatred, violence and, yes, of true discrimination. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u23	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are moments in the history of a country that mark epochal passages. These are important moments in which we begin to build the path that will lead society to cultural leaps, to acquire new rights and duties, to create new sensibilities and to strengthen them and to make us more democratic and civil. These are such important moments that those who are the protagonist in the first person should feel strong the responsibility that leads, placing themselves in the best disposition compared to the opening of dialogue, confrontation and mediation, in order to reach a shared starting result. This is the case for the moment marked by the discussion of the draft law on measures to prevent and combat discrimination and violence on grounds of sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and disability. We start from an essential premise, first of all, that of the procedural profile and then of merit. We are the Senate of the Republic, one of the two branches of Parliament, with equal powers, duties and dignity: it is okay that we are modest and generous, but why so much clamour and haste to close such a delicate measure and to leave it as it is, when it has remained in the House for more than a year? I am convinced that all the media and social can-can, the wild ideology, the intransigence and the wall raised against any mediation, in order to be able to plant a party band, are all the more wrong to address a topic such as LGBTQ rights and the incitement to discrimination and hatred, which should instead be treated in a serious, high, transversal and profound way, being a matter of civilization, which should unite and make us stronger and not divide. The draft law under consideration, which was born to protect the rights and respect of the person and individual freedom, should be governed by these essential principles. This is a measure that should not even have a surname and should mark a turning point in the cultural and social system of a nation, which should find a meeting point and not divisive points, which would leave open a confrontation that should never exist again. Instead, what does the father of the bill say? What does it say? He says it doesn't average on people's skin. What would you like to underlying this statement? That he just has to win the strongest? That we're gonna have to play wrestle and who throws the other guy's arm on the table wins? That we should split up into good and bad? We cannot, we must not and we do not want to be simply spectators. The seats in this House are not those of a cinema and we are not, we do not want and we cannot be passive spectators. We are representatives of the people, of all the people, and a fair and just law must find a point of encounter and not of confrontation, not create social splits. Here we risk distorting the very high role of Parliament, and I stress Parliament, not a social or a debate at the bar. A law of civilization, of cultural evolution, should be a law of pacification, not of division; it should find an ideal point of mediation in order to become truly a moment of evolution and not of involution. It should not, in the course of the discussion, have outside the palace the police for fear of clashes; it is not possible that a law against hatred generates hatred to such an extent that it has created two opposing typhoseries. This isn't good. It's the base. Without sharing and pacification, no one will win, and this is not about winning one side or the other, but about winning freedom, rights, respect. For Forza Italia respect for the dignity of the human person, the protection of individual freedoms, but also the protection of public law come above all, and that is why our approach has been, is and will continue to be very serious. Let us not miss this very important opportunity to make a great social and cultural step forward. We do not risk - because of the desire of some - putting a flag showing intolerant fundamentalism, throwing everything away, being more content in saying "it is their fault if we have lost" rather than saying that we have all won. If perfect bicameralism still holds our legislative power, we must not be afraid of it. It is clear - I repeat - that politics is mediation, as it is clear that this Parliament represents everyone, every single citizen who has entered the urn of a democratic country and has entrusted us with the great responsibility of being represented. I remember when in this House, right here, from this very bench, in the sixteenth legislature, I was the rapporteur of another law of civilization, that on the equivalence of children, in order to eliminate the odious natural and legitimate adjectivation within the civil code, therefore the consequent discrimination; that which I renamed the law Filumena Marturano: the children are children. Even then there was a very intense debate, there were real clashes, but we made it, and in the Senate, with great pride, the law passed unanimously, because in the end we all sat together and settled our differences finding the ideal points of mediation to protect our most precious good, the children. Today the point of mediation must be found to protect the supreme good, the freedom of everyone, moreover guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, to get to learn to grow in differences, respecting each person as a person. Let us stop for a moment to think that the result of the Invalsi trials - today it is in all the newspapers - has given a result, in my opinion, as a teacher, as a mother, as a parliamentary, terrible and disturbing. Our high school kids are still at middle school. Otherwise, we should not have young people able to develop their own critical consciences to make the best choices and to develop the right sensibilities, just as we should intervene and invest the PNRR's debt if we want it to become a leverage, a lever of profitability, which is not only the economic one; profitability is also that of the cultural importance of a people, so we need to invest in trainers and schools. It's another speech, but it fits peacefully in this we're dealing with. Therefore, respect and protection of the dignity of the human person without distinction means the protection and respect of every person, therefore, also of those who ask to find a meeting point that allows to dismiss this law by having Parliament, the most important institution of popular representation, its essential function: to express the highest prerogative to ensure that the thought of everyone finds home in the composition of a law. Do not force this Parliament to vote politically in relation to the arrogance of a leader who launches a Diktat without whether or not but who, being a leader of a single party - the Democratic Party in this case - would force others to feel conditioned in a choice. I am sure that even within the Democratic Party there are, rightly, different shades of thought between them that if I were a party leader, I would tend to respect so as not to risk surprises at the time of the vote. I would like this more harmonious law as a law of civilization and respect, more respectful of the sentiments of the various movements of opinion. Public opinion is also split and we must be the guarantors of a measure that is best welcomed by everyone and that does not become paradoxically an instrument of division and confrontation. This is where Parliament's nobility will appear, here we will see our ability, our seriousness, our will to really want to lay down a law that is well done for all, as must be a good law. It is at a time like this, on a divisive law not in its substantial core, but in very delicate nuances, that we should show that we deserve the role that the citizens have entrusted to us, managing to do what should be done on every measure: to find the ideal synthesis. Grinding up on positions, talking about non-negotiable points will only serve to widen the political gap more and more and this is the last useful thing for a measure that turns a page of Italian history. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u25	Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u26	Maybe we have some problems with the microphone. Senator, try the microphone at the next station.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u27	Mr President, I thought censorship had begun now.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u28	Always trust the Presidency and trust it with confidence and serenity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u29	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). I trust in the presidency, but... [[Comments]] Let's start with censorship.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u30	Dialogues...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u31	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). In friendship with Senator Cirinna. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely reciprocated. DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, with my brief speech I would like to highlight what must unite us and not divide us, obviously the condemnation of all violence and form of discrimination. However, we must also strongly highlight the importance of freedom of thought, freedom called into question by Article 4 of the Zan bill, in my view, for an excess of political correctness. I would like to focus on this very article and point out that it is not well specified what is meant by inappropriate ideas. A dangerous perimeter between free thought and offense, which does not have a clear demarcation, leaving wide room for the discretion of a third figure; who decides what is suitable? This must be specified. We are not talking about love, feelings, which we do not question, but about the penal code, and so we must be clear. We need certainty in the norm, there is little to do. We cannot leave the citizens in the dark without a clear rule. Freedom of opinion can never be compressed, never, and for this reason we will fight in all places, of course if it is channeled within cultural respect and culture itself as an important term. This is what makes me think, not accept and reject the call of the League to dialogue is an incomprehensible ideological act; trenching behind a position not shared by all is a demonstration of political weakness. You have weak ideas and we are demonstrating this every day with our interventions, articulating them in the name of the Italian Constitution. It is a weakness that risks creating a new inquisition, a modern witch hunt against those who are rightly convinced that the family is composed of mother and father. [[Applause]] I myself have undergone a social lynching for a post in which I claimed the role of biological parents, a media lynching. For this reason I express my solidarity with Senators Pillon, Ostellari and all my colleagues who have been truly lynched on social media because they have expressed their free opinion: brave men, who go against the unique thought. And with force, in fact, I want to shout: ideas do not process, a model of life does not process, a religious creed does not process. Do we want to talk about Article 7, which establishes paths within the school? It is a very confusing article: it does not specify who is required to organize these courses on homophobia and especially with what skills. Are we talking about gender culture? If so, you will never, ever agree with us. Freedom for Italian boys and Italian girls to grow up as they believe, without being influenced. [[Applause]] Unique thought cannot be the only dominant dogma; the diversity of ideas is the salt of democracy. [[Comments of Senator Pillon]] Thank you very much Simone, coming from you is a compliment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u32	Talk to the Presidency. Senator Pillon will have many opportunities.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u33	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). I appeal to all free men, to people who have the courage to make their freedom available to everyone, because from tomorrow - but I am convinced that it will not happen - we could be less free. That's why I believe that everyone is free to live their sexuality as they best believe, but this does not allow anyone to limit the freedoms of others, nor to influence the growth of children. It would be nice to see so much emphasis even before the countless crimes suffered by Christians in the world. I quote one last case (in many, too many, they pretend to know little or nothing, they turn their heads): do you know that a young Italian-Moroccan of twenty-three years has been arrested in Morocco and sentenced to three years in prison for a post published on Facebook considered blasphemy and offensive for Islam? It is too easy to accuse and demand sanctions against Orban and Hungarian democracy, while going against cultures, which you also consider legitimate, which restrict the freedoms of homosexuals and women is not easy, because you are afraid. It's easy to hit Orban and democracies, but you don't have the courage to hit these Islamic states, with forms of sanction or even cultural criticism, because for you very often it's the immigrants who become cheap labor for your multinational friends. I can also do sentimentalism, reading the messages that come to me. Before they were all moved and attentive to the messages coming from people who feel discriminated against, who have our solidarity, but I read to you the messages that come from other people who deserve great solidarity from politics: the workers. The left, in fact, has now abandoned the working class in order to become a servant of the lobbyists, even of the very rich lobbyists who certainly have neither economic problems nor rights. Here, the messages that came to me: The flight fund didn't arrive; at the end of the month we can't do the shopping. But here we don't care, we have to talk about something else, waste time with useless laws, when we don't have the integration fund. If you'll excuse me, that's all I'm gonna get. I send a message to the intelligence of the left, especially to those people who in these days, believing that they are high both culturally and socially, are criticizing us: we are not afraid and to defend an idea, to defend the truth and to defend freedom we are also ready to jail. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u35	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to make a few comments on the method used. We are used, as a Senate and as a branch of Parliament, to receive already-packed, ready-to-adopt and government-initiative bills which concern urgent measures contained in decree-laws and which often concern economic issues or deadlines that are being extended. Sometimes, and not uncommonly, we have also happened to do so through trustworthy vows. Today we are dealing with a parliamentary initiative measure from the House of Deputies which has no date beyond which the text would no longer be valid. Yet it is presented to us as inemissable, therefore as unchangeable, and the only testimony that is given to us is that of an intervention in the Senate Chamber. Moreover, this text is shown to us as the result of the mediation of all the forces in the House, and it is told to us moderate liberals of Forza Italia that the contribution of our Members was decisive in writing the text now under consideration. Everyone's contribution has been decisive, but our contribution as senators is not required: we cannot propose or approve amendments otherwise the ratio of the text is distorted, the result - it is said - of a delicate balance. But the content of the Zan bill has made the intellectual world and university, as well as the Catholic world, express strong concerns. So it is not, as someone wants to make believe, that on the one hand there are the crude and the insensitive and on the other those who take care of the weakest subjects. The concern of the Catholic and academic world lies precisely in the fact that we want to crystallize unclear definitions in legal norms, some of which have criminal character. It is therefore tried, by writing them in normative form, to transform into dogmas of the definitions that are still the subject of scientific debate, but that could change, until canceling it, also the traditional concept of the family. And we try, therefore, through the introduction of these dogmas, to limit the freedom of manifestation of thought that - I remember - is protected by Article 21 of the Constitution. If it is right to punish actions or words that incite violence or harm the dignity of a person, it is not right to pursue dissent or criticism of the issues dealt with in the draft law that now bears the name of the Democratic Party Member. Comparative experience shows how similar norms to those contained in the Zan bill have led to the indictment of persons for claiming that marriage is based on the union of a man and a woman or for expressing critically towards certain attitudes on the level of sexuality, without any connection with violence and hatred, and without having harmed the dignity of anyone. Even the content of discriminatory and prohibited acts is not precisely defined by the bill: so many choices of persons who are the expression of freedom protected by the Constitution, such as religion, assembly, association, economic initiative and others, can be the subject of criminal sanctions. Many associations are open only to people of one or the other sex, who may see their existence undermined. Various evaluations may be made on the subjects covered by the provision by religious confessions: let us think, for example, of the note of the CEI on behalf of the Catholic Church, but also of the choices of companies to advertise products with images of heterosexual couples, and even of the decisions of some artists not to put their own extro and their own creativity at the service of certain causes that could be considered hostile to some other part. Moreover, there are already experiences from other countries that have standards similar to what is now being introduced in Italy. In the United States a pastry chef went to court for not wanting to prepare a cake to celebrate a union between people of the same sex. In the United Kingdom, some Christian associations promoting adoption have been forced to close because they are opposed to adoptions by couples made up of same-sex people, who are admitted. Not to mention the male prisoners who have asked to change the penitentiary institute declaring themselves of opposite sex and the question of the male born sportsmen who want to compete with the female born sportsmen. Dangerous also appear the norms that use the school to promote ideologies of various kinds, such as those of gender, that are imposed by law on children, young people and their families and instead respect and friendship among the children that are the foundation of our education. The discipline now being examined by the Senate is also based in many respects on very broad and undefined concepts and thus puts the choice of behaviors to be punished to arbitrary judgements of judges, contrary to the principles of legality, taxability and certainty in criminal matters guaranteed by the Republican Constitution. Article 4 of the draft law even defines, in order to make them punishable, unlawful conduct, i.e. guaranteed by the same law, if they are capable of determining the real danger of carrying out discriminatory acts. Faced with so many doubts and doubts, also very authoritative, because they were expressed by the academic world, by magistrates, by Presidents of the Council, the Senate instead of closing should have opened a serious confrontation between the political forces and between the latter and all civil society on the topics covered by the measure. We are still at the general discussion, but the hope is that those who now find themselves firm and immutable on their positions will prepare themselves for dialogue, for the acceptance of those changes that introduce a law necessary to protect certain subjects, but that it is also right and do not discriminate against all others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u36	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u37	Pietro and Valerio have been together for fifteen years. They contacted me in 2016 on the occasion of the approval of the law on civil unions, thanking me for having returned their rights and the joy of being able to return to their homeland, because precisely thanks to the law on couples in fact they could finally choose to return to Italy after having been abroad for years, to live freely here their bond. A few months ago, however, those two boys wrote to me again telling me that they were about to leave because in Italy they don't feel safe, they were repeatedly attacked on the street with insults and offense by criminals who attacked them after having surprised them while they were simply kissing in public. Unfortunately, they are not the only ones who suffer such abuse: only in the last year, one out of four LGBT people has suffered threats, violence and homophobic abuses have increased in a year of 9 percent, numbers that alone suffice to show how urgent it is to adopt a law that protects people from intolerance, that intolerance of those who do not accept that love is free and personal. Only 30 years ago homosexuality was still on the World Health Organization's list of mental diseases. Today homosexuality is no longer considered a disorder, but LGBT people in Italy, i.e. lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals and transgenders, are still exposed to a condition of vulnerability due to discrimination based on sexual orientation; discriminations that are not only ethically incorrect, but that are also a violation of the principle of equality specifically protected by our Constitution, which provides that all citizens must be put in a position to express their personality and to see it respected in the social and collective context. The autonomy of people and their expression in society are closely linked to the respect and equal treatment they receive from others and it is the task of the institutions, therefore it is our task, to guarantee the individual not only as a single person but also in interpersonal and affective relationships and it is the task of the legislator to work to achieve a free society based on respect for the rights and on the valorization of people, so as not to allow the identity or sexual orientation to be a reason for aggression of any kind. That is why it is important to approve this bill, because it makes everyone free to express their self freely, without suffering unfair and intolerable restrictions or violence. In fact, we are convinced of the importance of personal freedom even in feelings and choices of family life. The measure also has the merit, thanks to the intervention of my colleague Lisa Noja in the House, to consider discriminatory acts also those attacks, those violence and those acts of bullying aimed at disabled people, episodes that all too often, still today, unfortunately remain unpunished. Like Italy Viva, we are very keen that this measure be voted on in all the salient passages. Both in the Commission and in the House, we have always supported with our vote the evolution of the process of the draft law, but we fear that insisting obtusely on voting in the Chamber, without a preliminary agreement between the majority groups and without an attempt to mediate between the various political forces, means risking that the bill does not go through. Yesterday the other, with the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, we saw that the measure passed with just 12 rejection votes; and yesterday even worse, with just one very fragile clear vote in order to avoid the suspensive issue. These are numbers, not assumptions, which tell us that, at every secret vote, the risk of the bill being buried will be very great. That is why we continue to trust that an agreement can still be reached. If the synthesis drawn up by the rapporteur, Mr Ostellari, who had basically incorporated our amendments into its entirety, had been accepted, we could now, with certainty, finally approve the provision to the Senate and we could defeat it, with the political agreement to vote for it in the House in a matter of weeks, putting trust. This is due to changes that would not diminish the meaning of the measure, because they are similar formulations, extracted from a similar bill, presented on the same subject by my colleague Scalfarotto. Proposals which had already been shared and signed by Mr Zan at the beginning of the parliamentary term. With these amendments, we are asking for policy. Politics means being willing to compromise. The wall against the wall doesn't go anywhere. It is necessary to be able to mediate in order to find meeting points that interpret the interests of citizens and citizens. As Italy Viva in the House we approved the current text of the Zan bill because there were sufficient votes. Today, however, if we want to bring home the result, we have to confront the Senate numbers and reality tells us that the numbers in the Senate, with high probability, will not be enough. That is why I would like to appeal to the reformist and liberal parliamentary forces in turn: let us amend the measure together. Let us still sit around a table and identify those aspects that allow us to pursue a broad consensus, so as to arm the law without exposing it to bad surprises. The measure is too important to risk falling into the anonymity of secret vows. There are many colleagues who recognize themselves in the idea of a modern and European Italy and a country where personal freedoms are recognized and protected. It is to these colleagues that I am addressing; I am sending them an invitation to speak in favour of certain specific amendments, which lead to a wider consensus and allow us to find a compromise together by which we can adopt the law smoothly. This law is urgent, it is necessary. It is a law for a society oriented to tomorrow and expresses the need for social modernization, for a leap forward that Italy should carry out. We at Italia Viva are convinced that it is not right to make battles in their own right without creating the conditions to bring home the result. And we believe that it is not fair for people to move with the only goal of earning some extra followers, if then the rights are lost on the street. We are not for a policy of leaving or doubling. We are pressed for concrete results. We are those of civil unions and we are here today to add a further piece to the path of equal rights started with our measure in 2016. We do not like the fact that we have to be in this Chamber doing the adjuries, hanging from the uncertainty of some rejection vote. From us in Italy alive there continues to be a fair and constructive vote, in line with what has been done so far. But are we sure that the attitude of the rest of the majority will be equally loyal and transparent? If, as we fear, in the course of individual secret vows the numbers will betray this provision and cause it to lapse, we do not come to say that it was we of Italy Viva who put it down. We will vote firmly in favour of the bill, as we have done in every passage up to this moment and we invite everyone to do the same, so that there is sufficient consensus to make it pass, so that stories of aggression like those to Peter and Valerio can finally be denounced and condemned. But if we really want to change this country, it's time to get out of the dead end of theological positions and see how to really protect the interests of so many young people and decent people who just ask to be able to love themselves without hurting anyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u38	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u39	Mr President, I take advantage of this intimate manner of the Senate this morning and, above all, of this debate that seems to me to be between deaf, in the sense that two ideological blocs are confronted. I would like to say that these are two tectonic plates that are unable to approach or move away.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u40	Those are getting closer.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u41	Mr Zaffini (FdI). President, as you know, sometimes they get closer and sometimes they get away. Today's debate is more motionless than the tectonic plates because I see that the debate revolves around ideological totems, surrogates of thought. I explain and say this to those colleagues who in good faith seek dialogue and a text, like the last speech that preceded me, that manages to summarize the reasons where there is agreement. Colleagues, in fact - I hope to make a mistake, but I fear not to make a mistake - behind this provision there is a customary attitude of a certain piece of left that, having in time impoverished the scope of its ideological thought under the blows of an exasperated tacticism (which, for example, sees today the PD governing together with the League), is forced to substitute for thought that must armor. The thought of the left comes from a strong thought with which I have nothing to share, but which I respect deeply, where it still exists, so much so that I respect those colleagues who still nourish that thought and express it explicitly, concretely and consistently. Much of the left, however, this thought has played it; the shredded, lost it behind a hypertactic path to have to manage power at all costs, and the last ten years compared to this are absolutely obvious, flashing and exhaustive. What is needed to aggregate? To mount the enemy, to build the ideological totem and, then, in turn, we rediscover the danger of fascism and intolerance towards the different. I'm opening a parenthesis. But what is different and what is the same? Thought is also different. Rightly you claim respect for the different, but in my opinion it is also an offense to define it as such because for me, instead, there is nothing different in a person who chooses in his life to do what he wants remaining in the lawful. For me there is nothing different and, therefore, I do not consider it a different. It reminds me of the term we knew when we were young and inverted. Do you remember that? It's an offense to me, of course, and it's also an offense to say it's a different one. For me it is not a different; it is an equal, but I am for equality at the start and, however, here we risk digressing. Therefore, in the face of a text that should or would like to protect the different, I wonder what greater diversity must be protected, if not that of thought, that of being able to express freely, quietly and serenely its own thought, even when it is absolutely incontrovertible. In some passages of this text, as illustrious lawyers say, there are traps for those who express concepts of a clear solarity. If, for example, it is said that there is no scientific evidence telling us that, beyond women, someone can procreate, this passage, if it is included in a discussion where there is a reasoning that concerns sexual orientation - let's call it this - can be judged by a zealous magistrate as discriminating or inciting, because it leaves total freedom of judgment, without putting stakes or parameters. And I assure you that this, at the first judgment, as has been correctly pointed out by some of my previous speakers, will constitute jurisprudence. Colleagues, don't imagine what we're opening up or you'd expect us to open up with this passage. However, I refuse to think that this cannot be understood by my colleagues in front of me and therefore I imagine that there is something behind this train that has to walk at all costs - I can think of a film in which a train had lost control and continued to walk, until they were able to stop it - regardless of any other logical consideration, such as those expressed by colleagues from Forza Italia and the League and also by colleagues from Italy alive and part of the PD colleagues, as in yesterday's intervention of the former leader, Senator Marcucci. So when you go to confrontation at all costs, there is obviously no possibility of mediation. We do not want mediation, because the political objective is not to protect the different, as you call it, but to build an ideological and mental dress, to be able to propose as an ideological substitute to a tired electorate, who no longer knows what to vote and why to vote. Why should a voter vote PD today? Why do you protect workers? Why would he do that? Then you have to supply some material to give to the mainstream, the newspapers, the press and all that apparatus, functional to pursue, obtain and maintain the power, which to some extent must be nourished. These tactical tricks are exclusively necessary for this. In all this, the problem is that there are fundamental rights that are absolutely non-negotiable. It is not possible to compress freedom of opinion and judgment, to the point of not being able to say absolutely normal things, such as being able to say that a child needs a father and a mother. We may not agree with this: God willing if we do not agree with this! There may be a part that says that a child does not need a father and a mother, but two parents who love him. All right, it looks great, but I want to be able to say it, I want to be able to say it freely everywhere that, in my opinion, a child needs a father and a mother and I could say another 20 or 30 of these things. I recall in this regard Article 1 of the bill under consideration, which has been read and which cites its own perception of gender regardless of the path of transformation, so that one week I decide to stay inside the male genre and frequent the changing rooms of the males, then, doing the same sport, the week after change perception, I perceive to be inside the female genre and therefore frequent the changing rooms of the feminine. Mr. President, what's stopping me? It is obviously not a real question: I address you, as always reminds us to do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely. Mr Zaffini (FdI). I refuse to think that there may be an intelligence that does not perceive the absurdity of this text. All I have to do is consider the tactics behind them; I tell my colleagues, especially forza Italia, that they are going in some way to justify a duty. Then stay with the Government together, if you want (I tell colleagues of the League and of Forza Italia), and find a good family advisor (because everything has been reduced to a small family bega), that helps you find elements to continue this marriage between too different. And then - live God! - the first diversity should be recognized in that policy, which does not in any way entertain you in this Government and where no argument can justify that you should govern with the PD, with the left and with these people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u42	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u43	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, this surprising magnanimity (let us call it so) with which we have tried to compensate for the fact that we have cut the debate in the Commission through the broad scope of the debate in this House, remains for me cause of concern when I see that in reality we are simply not listening to each other, because we are out. So we do not take responsibility for the arguments of others, who think differently from us, and others have no way of absorbing in the parliamentary debate those arguments that have perhaps so far remained on the sidelines of personal reflection. I am a little sorry, but this is the prerogative of the debate in this House, in which everyone speaks, but there is no immediate and direct confrontation. This seems to consecrate different positions and not to go towards that line of mediation, which could have been the dominant objective of a work in the Commission and which, in my opinion, could have really represented the possibility of meeting an ability to raise doubts, fears, perplexities, but also desires and expectations of all people. What do I record right now? I positively record one thing: I imagine all families who have homosexual children and I imagine all boys and all homosexual girls who, however, derive from this debate an important element of hope and security. There is no one who opposes them, no one who contradicts their orientation and no one who is claiming sanctions against their conduct. I imagine that, after these days, after everything the press has said and after everything that appears in the news, a boy can go with more simplicity to his home, to his parents, and tell them to be homosexual or present to them his partner or his partner, getting from the family the first and most important element of reassurance, support and support. I imagine that this total and absolute transversality of the interventions, which recognize the sexual orientation of everyone, whatever it may be, their right to exist, translates in fact, at a personal level in these situations, in the greater freedom to express themselves, in the greater security of being welcomed and in the substantial hope of being able to build a path together. For them this debate and all the work these days should, however, already represent a cultural victory. At the same time, I imagine that to so many other people this same approach and this same reflection should lead to greater pulcritude in language. There is physical violence, which we all know and on which each of us expresses itself negatively; violence, whatever it may be, against everyone and for whatever reason, always remains the least human version of man, the one biologically closest to the animal component that each of us has, when, not having the good of the word, only the force and the violence determine the choices. This is not the case for us, but I imagine that this debate also greatly helps people to cure their language, to be prudent and aware that words hurt and that therefore we cannot use terms capable of mortifying the other, to which we must recognize the freedom to exist in the complexity of the emotional choices he intended to make. This is already a conquest of the present debate: the one who is more prudent in expressing his thoughts always and in any case, being careful that the expression of thought does not represent that point of violence that humiliates and mortifies the other; the other who are more convinced of a freedom of choice that they have made and of the certainty that in this inclusion will be their families, beginning with these, to be welcoming. During this period I have spoken several times with my colleagues on the terms of the draft law under discussion. The senators who follow, with whom we have exchanged ideas and views, know how I feel and know that for me the point of mediation of the law is the conditio sine qua non for its approval. We absolutely need to offer a tool like this. I am so convinced that mediation must represent the strength of the whole issue that we are debating for the respect of people in the possibility of formulating their own choices in a relationship that legitimizes both in their own positions, that I myself signed the bill at the first signature of Senator Licia Ronzulli. It is, however, a bill in which the strong point, which represents the heart of all the debate, reaffirms this rejection of violence and therefore relaunches the idea of a civilization and a civilization that I like to call, as Paul VI did, the civilization of love in a profound sense. That we can have perplexities (and I am referring to a significant part not only of the area of the Catholic world) is truly a common sense also widespread. We can defend the absolute freedom of two boys or two girls to be together and to give this relationship all the characteristics and connotations provided from the point of view of their sexuality; precisely this respect for freedom arouses in many of us a lot of doubts that this free choice has an important involvement in the generational axis. You all know, even if the law does not say so expressly, that all the concerns and concerns that have arisen have arisen with regard to children, the youngest, the youngest, even when we talk about the famous article 7, which is concerned to the extent that what should be an indication of inclusion, acceptance and even mutual respect can result in indoctrination. We cannot be accused of inventing things, and that is why I quote three examples. Firstly, on these civil rights issues, Anglo-Saxon society is generally ahead of us. When I say later to us I do not mean better than us, but simply chronologically later to us: it happens first there and then here. All the situations that have been mentioned, even a little aberrant, have occurred in that civilization, but we know that by going around long they could come to us. It's not a fear suspended in the air; it's a real experience: we know it happens there first and then comes here, willing or not. The second thing we have all experienced is the textbooks that I am not quoting here: it is a force to have to regard sexual diversity as an intrinsically discriminatory element. I want to quote the elementary books with penguins, not to have a mother and a father, and a thousand examples in which you end up leading to an anonymity of sexuality. That's not good. There have been ways of criticizing, if you will, not violent in gestures but in words, when we all know that, while being born with a certain sexuality, with a certain gender, however, there is a strong action, which is that of education, which offers mechanisms of reinforcement. The previous education, a few decades ago, had a series of mechanisms for strengthening gender identity. I use this expression intentionally. They tried to cultivate their femininity in the girls and in the males their masculinity. Probably mistakes were made, but there was the awareness that this identity should be supported through mechanisms of education. An almost carpeted campaign has been made to eliminate all so-called gender stereotypes on the educational level, leaving children in front, indeed, of the indeterminateness of the self. This cannot be assumed, at this moment, as an argument in support of this theory; rather it must be noted, from an educational point of view, that we must support, in ways, in times, in circumstances, with models, all those processes that strengthen this identity in boys and girls. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for this handful of extra seconds. I really believe that the Zan bill, as presented at this moment, will not pass. I do not want to make a prophecy, but I want to tell you that it cannot pass, because it contains within it a series of real distortions. We work on those points, because we have the opportunity to do so; We will not do that in the Commission, patience. We will do so with the amendments, which we can table until Tuesday, at 12 noon, but let us read them, study them and seriously evaluate them: they are the only instrument we have to improve the text. On these amendments we play the life of the law, whether it passes or not, and the strong message we send to the boys and girls of the LGBTQ+ community, but also to the rest of society. Don't be afraid: we tell each other. Our strength will be the strength of the amendments and our responsibility will be the responsibility of the amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u44	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply opposed to the adoption of this draft law, particularly with regard to certain articles. I think that children absolutely should not be passed on the gender ideology; it is up to parents to educate them, certainly not others. We are not in the former Soviet Union, where children were taken away from families and educated by the Party. [[Applause]] Your desires must not be confused with rights: they are ideological whims that limit the freedoms of others and for this reason I will oppose by any lawful means to avoid such a law, which strangles my freedom and that of those who elected me and whom I represent. Children are entitled to a father and a mother. When they're older, they want to know why the biological mother has abandoned them and will suffer so much all their lives. You cannot expect this, with the uterus for rent, to satisfy your desires. Bring the babies in a normal way, without having to pay poor women to have them delivered. We've come to the moral drift. Not to mention the lack of any scientific evidence about the entire fifty genres you claim to exist. [[Applause]] What do you want to teach children if there is no scientific basis? It is as if I said - excuse me - that it rains potatoes and not water and threatens to bring to court anyone who dares to question it. I think someone needs protection and support, but this doesn't harm children and restrict the freedom of others. I do not understand how about thirty annual attacks, mostly verbal, on LGBT people, can constitute a national emergency and reason to approve this bill: but please, come on, have you ever thought of Italian women victims of rape every day by foreigners, especially those of Islamic religion and cultures completely different from ours? Think of Pamela, cut to pieces and put in two suitcases, or Desirée: this is a real emergency. Or maybe we women don't have the same dignity as LGBT? [[Applause]] Not to mention immigrant women, who are mutilated or vanished or forced to marry against their will. [[Applause]] I didn't hear any defense against them or propose any laws to protect them. Personally, I have no phobia about homosexuals and all other LGBT categories; I regard them as people worthy of respect. They are just like everyone else, so live their lives as best the garba, but without limiting all the freedoms of others. Above all, they respect children who have their rights, without forcing them into their training. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u46	Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will focus on some paradoxical aspects that are characterizing this debate with respect to a measure recognised as important by all, on which, on the other hand, a question of constitutionality was raised again the other day and yesterday the question suspended in order to try to block it. The debate on the Zan draft law seems to be about questions of detail, procedure, parliamentary practice, exaggerated delay in timing or not. President Ostellari gave us an essay the other day, claiming the role of the Senate, which is not called upon to ratify the deliberations of the Chamber of Deputies: just, correct; we do not understand, however, the obstructive attitude carried out in recent months by the President of the Justice Commission. Senator Renzi went even further: he recalled that he was for the abolition of the perfect bicameralism but, after the outcome of the referendum, he became a champion of the specific role of the Senate, which, in a few days, can do a mediation that was not possible in eight months. Not only that. According to Renzi, the Senate can create a pact between political forces for rapid approval of the Chamber of Deputies as well. In these political skirmishes all the contents of the measure which is the subject of our debate are absent; they are put in unorganized thesis and antithesis which, in recent months, have filled the pages of the newspapers, but which have not been able to be deepened in this House. Everyone recognizes that the Zan bill is very important, that it must not have a political intestatary, that it cannot risk the secret vote, but that it must be voted in the light of the sun, from the wider array of forces in respect to the vast majority that supports the Draghi Government. It is enough to want to enter into the substance of the content of the Zan bill to understand, as happened in the debate of these two days, that the gap between the political groups is very clear. A great philosopher of the school, Pietro Abelardo - it comes to my mind - found that on various theological questions the judgments of the fathers of the Church were often divergent and sometimes antithetical, he proposed a method that is still at the basis of university teaching: the method of Sic et non, of the quaestiones disputatae, which led to those notebooks quodlibet, fundamental for the growth and development of the debate. Abelard preceded the principle of authority that of reason to come to the head and reasonably take off on a thesis. All the opposite, I think, of what we are trying to do today in this debate. Between the authority of Senator Pillon, who contrasts science with anthropology, and that of Senator Salvini, who proclaims that within this Senate there is no MP who supports archaic gender discrimination, there can be no mediation. Or with respect to the statements of the authority of President Ciriani, according to which family is union between man and woman in function of reproduction there is possible mediation with respect to the authority still of Senator Salvini, who would welcome without any problem to his home the companion or companion of his son? In politics mediation, we know, is necessary, but it must not confuse the waters. I understand that it is better for a party to look at some of the merits for the adoption of a measure recognised as very important, but it would not be a disgrace to vote against or abstain when there are reasonable doubts. The clerics varantes, to return to our Middle Ages, at the end of the examination of the various and sometimes opposite positions in the Sic et were not required to take part, which was not that of an impalpable molasses. This is how a scientific method has been established in our universities. Otherwise, identity flags will be unleashed, which replace quaestiones only with names. However, nominalistic relapse does not help us to improve the knowledge of things and, in the end, if we limit ourselves to it, appoints nude tenemus. For example, the word genre from the Latin genus and from the ancient French genre, then spread in English in the form of gender, is commonly used to refer to models of relationship, expectations, constraints and different opportunities between men and women. In this it is distinguished from the sex that instead refers to the biological nature of the male and the female, therefore to the physiological dimension. Now, around the gender identity syntagma, a highly pretentious spread is developing. It would appear that putting it into law would mean opening the door to a cultural definition of diversity, while not admitting it would limit the definition of law to that of biological characteristics. It's not like that at all. The facts of the case law are quite different. Already the current regulatory data, the Constitutional Court with judgment No 221 of 2015 in the matter of judicial correction of the attribution of sex affirmed that the right to gender identity is a constituent element of the right to personal identity, fully falling within the scope of the fundamental rights of the person. In the same sense, the Court expresses itself in judgment n° 180 of 2017, in which it reiterates that it must once again be noted that the aspiration of the individual to the correspondence of sex attributed to him in the personal registers at the time of birth with that subjectively perceived and lived is certainly an expression of the right to recognition of gender identity. 12 p.m. (Follows MARILOTTI). How did the judge of the laws get to all this? With the usual field invasion of jurisdiction against Parliament? Doesn't look like it. The Courts say this starting from the word "genere" which is already present in the various laws and decrees in force for several years in our order, such as the electoral law for the House and Decree-Law No. 93 of 2013. Nothing easier, therefore, than that the word "genere" is accepted in the mediation to which Senator Salvini mentioned, without his colleague Pillon beating an eye, and a consistent jurisprudence in a few years comes to apply the law of Mancino also to gender identity. Why, then, so loud? Isn't it that on whether or not to send the measure back to the House you are by chance playing games, muscle-type tests within the majority? To conclude, I am absolutely convinced that the Zan bill is a measure of civilization, which helps us to live in an inclusive, tolerant, respectful society of the rights of all, beyond and beyond the identity groups that make up our diverse society. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u49	Mr President, I cannot help but note that, following the government's total inertia, at least as much as we have been informed, with respect to the verbal note of the Secretariat of State of the Holy See and to the formal letters from the Apostolic Church in Italy and the Church of Jesus Christ of the Saints of the last days, in Italy we are moving forward in lawlessness, because there are norms and documents that have become law, as precisely the Concordat, provided for in Article 7 of the Constitution, and two of the Understanding provided for in Article 8 of the Constitution, and there are formal steps provided for by those Treaties, signed by the Head of Government, which remain totally ignored. The Senate was not at all informed and it is up to the Government to deal with these things, because it is the Government that signs documents of this kind and it is the Government of course, not the Senate, that has addressed the Secretariat of State of the Holy See, as well as the two Churches that I have mentioned, because the Head of Government is the counterpart of the Understanding. Having said that, on the issue of the rights and discrimination of homosexuals, transsexuals and others who with ever longer acronyms are mentioned in this regard, I remember - and several colleagues of Forza Italia, the League and the Brothers of Italy have said - that there are many countries in the world that classify homosexual acts as crimes and several of these also provide the death penalty for homosexual acts. But of these, it turns out, nobody cares about that part of the House that wants the Zan bill at all costs, soon, immediately and without changing a comma. [[Applause]] They don't care. When, a few weeks ago, the Iranian Foreign Minister came to Italy, I made communications and went to the streets with Iranian resistance to prove against this lord of a regime that executes thousands of death sentences a year, which discriminates in a very serious way women, which finances terrorism and whatever else, and which has a rather articulated law on homosexual acts. In the meantime, the death penalty, with a curious classification for homosexual acts according to - as the Iranian law says - is envisaged and practiced - it is not provided in theory - that the person is active or passive. The active person takes "only" 70 lashes the first three times and the fourth time the death penalty; for the passive person the death penalty is provided immediately. And if the passive person is of Islamic faith and the active person is not Islamic, there is immediately the death penalty also for the active person. Let's say there's a large articulation. But this is also of no interest; indeed, it has been received and it does not appear from official reports that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said anything about these "small" violations of homosexual people in Iran (small in the sense that they kill them and consequently are no longer discriminated against). But on this I have not seen anyone, but not one, nor heard of supporters of the Zan bill To worry about it. [[Applause]] But let us come to what is laid down in the draft law under discussion. I would like to focus in particular on Article 8, which has been somewhat neglected. Article 8 says that the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR) - it doesn't seem to me that homosexuality is a race, it can be many things but not a race - elaborates a national strategy for preventing and combating discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, consult local administrations and - by chance - LGBT associations (the others are not interested). Someone will wonder what this strategy will be like; we approve the law and then see what it will be like. But this strategy already exists and has been approved even at the end of 2013 and is published since then on the website of UNAR, which is not a private association, but an office of the Department of Equal Opportunities, which is a department of the Presidency of the Council. And here it is: what I have in hand is the document that contains the UNAR National LGBT Strategy. On this I have submitted a question, since I learned about this document and its content (in the early months of 2014), but I was never answered, and at the time I was part of the majority of government, just as I am part of it today. In this parliamentary term, too, I put a question to the minister responsible to see if he wanted to keep these things, but he did not reply to me and the time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate have largely passed. I do not think that in these eight years the content may have softened; if anything, it is increased. So much so that the draft law Scalfarotto of the last legislature against homophobia and anything else has now been called discriminatory because it does not include gender identity; therefore, if anything, this document will be further strengthened. What's in this document? There is so much: I invite all those who support the Zan bill, or who are interested in what will happen in the future, to read it because it is not very long (it is about fifty pages), and inside there are so many interesting things. In particular, it has attracted my attention, among the axes of this strategy, that concerning education and education, in which many things are said and, in particular, it is stated that it is necessary to design innovative paths of formation in the matter of education to affectivity that start from the first degrees of education, just to start from the kindergartens - I repeat, from kindergartens - and from the schools of childhood to build an inclusive educational model based on respect for the differences that constitute a resource not only for those who are part of the LGBT community, but for all children. So, from the kindergartens. It would be nice to read it all, but obviously I only have time for a few brief hints. Among the various measures, it is planned to carry out innovative training and refresher courses with the recognition of training credits for those who participate in it, so it is practically an obligation or, in any case, a strong incentive [[Applause]] , with a particular focus on LGBT: the development of sexual identity in the teenager, affective-sexual education, knowledge of new family realities. What would be the new family realities? They would be the same parent families, that is, homosexual couples with children, therefore against the law, but patience, so much the law then will change, some judges already feel to change it. One judge even said that once in a while we have to give the law a backseat. But I'd like to see what you would say about a general who occasionally wanted to give the institutions a sidekick by deploying his tanks. [[Applause]] It is also said that the training will have to be directed not only to the teaching staff and students - let alone - with the recognition for both of training credits, but also to all non-teaching staff and parents. We are also talking about a start of collaboration agreements with LGBT associations and the enhancement of expertise - the text is full of English terms, because apparently Italian is not sufficiently expressive - of LGBT associations regarding the training and awareness of students and families. I skip some steps to get to the point of accreditation of LGBT associations at the Ministry of Education as training bodies. There is no mention of experts even suggested by these associations, but of subjects without any other degree of study except the fact that they are militants of the LGBT associations. It goes on to say many other things and on page 42 of this full-bodied text there is the list of associations with which you have collaborated and there is a beautiful series of LGBT associations, among which the cultural circle homosexual Mario Mieli. Who was Mario Mieli? To him it is specifically called a very active circle, of which there are also videos with drag queens that explain to children the fact that they must not limit their own sphere, think of being male or of being female, because they can be both, maybe they think of being male but in reality they are female. This Mario Mieli, to whom the circle is titled, wrote a book, "Elementi di critica homosexuale" (Elementi di critica homosexuale), which is basically his only work, of which I read with real discomfort some passages (there are even worse ones), but the whole book has this optics, it's not about extrapolated sentences (reading it to believe, the complete text is even, I don't know if legally, on the Internet). One of the things he says in this book is: "We can love children" - beautiful thing to love children, less beautiful is the following: "We can desire them erotically in response to their desire for Eros, we can grasp with face and open arms the intoxicating sensuality that deepen, we can make love with them. For this reason, pederastia is so severely condemned: it addresses loving messages to the child that society, through the family, traumatizes. Another song and I finish, because it's already too much: Love for God and fear of God are the neurotic result of a love for parents censored by the taboo of incest and anti-homosexual. The erotic desire of the child for the father, the erotic desire of the daughter for the mother, everything turns neurotically into worship of God, while the magical experience of the hidden universe... you know yourself necessarily pass through manifest homosexuality. I put a question on this at the time, the government's response was that it did not appear that these gentlemen, in their activities in schools, had performed acts of paedophilia. Of course! If it turns out, maybe something should have been done. [[Applause]] The question is as follows: people who call their circle to a gentleman who has written such things as what do children teach in schools? That was the question: there was no answer. That is why I maintain that Article 8 is much worse than Article 7. Article 7 provides for a day, while here all the days will be conditioned by this inclusiveness and there will have to be books that lead in that direction. Speaking of books, I heard a few of them mentioned yesterday. I read the synopsis of two of them, published on a sympathetic site with this vision. These are two children's books. One play: Milo prepares for bed and then listens to the story of his birth - children like to listen to stories - how his moms met and loved each other and then how, in order to have him, they asked for help from a doctor who planted a seed in the belly of one of them. The seed became Milo, a happy and loved child. We are very happy that the child is happy. But, while he used to tell himself stupidly about stork and cabbages, here he tells about the doctor who puts a seed. Where did that little seed come from? It comes from a man, who is the father of the child; a child who would have the right to have him beside himself and to receive support from him, including economic support. No, he didn't. He became a little bitch. There are so many books of this kind. I'll tell you the other story: Luca is always alone, like Marco. The two children become friends and inseparable companions of games and adventures. That's nice: they were alone and finally find a friend. As adults, one will be the entrepreneur - very well - and the other the military pilot, very well. The two friends will marry with a beautiful festive ceremony and with the blessing of their mothers. Here it is taught that the friend of the heart or the friend of the heart, for a child, is your sexual partner. If that's not the case, it means something's missing, you're crippled. That's how we go about putting ideas like this in the head of the kids! In the last few days a video has also come out, shot during a meeting organized by Professor Fedez, who is the new intellectual of reference for a certain left. [[Applause]] In that video, Mr Zan, the main proposer of this law, spoke the following words: there are children and girls who have perceived their gender since they were children; a gender that is different from their biological sex. That is why we must help those children - and the parents today are much more sensitive, fortunately, in this - in their transition journey, because they find themselves with a gender that does not correspond to their birth sex. The presence of LGBT associations in schools serves to go to the children and tell them: you thought you were male, but it is not said. What do you know? But what does a child know if it is a boy or a girl? Or rather: they have always treated him as a male, they have also explained to him the differences between a male and a female, because evidently a female knows these things. But what do you say to him? You're a child, but maybe you're a child? The age of development, the evolutionary age, is already quite complicated in itself. If you put unhealthy ideas in children's heads because there are cases of dysphoria - and that is still very questionable, because the actual cases of dysphoria are much less than all the treatments carried out - there is very serious and dangerous damage. As I conclude, I am talking about Article 2 of the draft law. If a parent refuses to subject his children to such teachings, what should he do? Meanwhile, not following the hour of teaching the Catholic religion foreseen in the Concordat is possible without the slightest problem. I'm not Catholic, I'm Waldensian, and I've always skipped that hour without the slightest problem, without any reflection of any kind on school evaluations. But how do you defend yourself from all this when you say you have to be in the whole school curriculum? It has to be in math too. There is also the famous example suggested by one of the texts mentioned, according to which this concept must also be introduced into normal teaching. Therefore, in the math problem you can read that Rosa with the two dads went to get an ice cream; having paid 1,20 euros and being in three, how much did she pay in total? It has to be planned everywhere. From the hour of religious teaching you can ask for exemption, but how do you ask for exemption from everything? That's impossible. The agreements of the Concordat, which go more in detail - I remember that it is written at a very high level because it is between two sovereign states - while the agreements with churches other than Catholic ones go more on practical, they say not only that children who want it can without problems be exempted from the hours of teaching of religion, but that the widespread teaching - as it is called - of religious convictions that are not those of the child or his family must also be avoided. How do you do it here? There is everywhere and, since all this is done to prevent - it is written in the law - discrimination, the parent who says that the child should not be said certain things and that LGBT associations should not be allowed to enter is not discriminatory or inciting discrimination? Article 4 says, in fact, that you can say that you don't want LGBT associations to tell these things to your children in your home, speaking for yourself; but, if you say that at the parent's assembly, and therefore where it counts and where it needs to be because maybe with your action you can convince others and avoid these activities, it becomes discrimination, because there is a real possibility that there is discrimination. Thus you risk up to eighteen months of imprisonment with the incitement to simple discrimination; but the only being part of a group or association that has among its own aims to propose such ideas involves, even if you did nothing to discriminate, assuming that these things are discrimination, up to four years of imprisonment. Those groups or associations can be churches, parishes, people who organize themselves to do a school at home to avoid being indoctrinated in this way. [[Applause]] If you are among the organizers or founders of the group, you risk up to six years of imprisonment. How can you think that this law adds rights and does not take them away from anyone? No: it is a law that contains very serious parts and that only harms people who, instead, should be protected by an attitude of tolerance and general acceptance. [[Applause]] You don't have to teach only to accept homosexuals and transsexuals; you also have to teach to accept and respect everyone, respecting your beliefs and ideas, without canceling Christmas, your dad and your mom - someone can disturb, even if very few are disturbed, and there are more legislators who worry - because you can't respect others if you don't respect yourself first. You respect yourself if you have a human dignity. The conception that men are men and women and are free to do what they want because they want them and not because they are led by minors is fundamental. If you don't respect yourself, you won't be able to respect others. If they tell you that you do not know what you are; that you are born of a little seed that a doctor inserts as if it were an ordinary injection; if they tell you that you are male, but maybe you are not; that you are female, but maybe you are not, they take away your dignity and, having no dignity, you will not respect that of others. We're going in the opposite direction. [[Applause]] Children must be taught their culture, their dignity, their personality and respect that of others. That's respect. This law, unfortunately, goes very much in the opposite direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u50	Senator Malan, you were able to speak for more than 20 minutes under the first paragraph of Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure. And, beyond the content, I congratulate you on the linearity of your speech. [[Comments]] Beyond the content: can I express this consideration or is there a coercion of my ability to make a comment? [[Applause]] She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u51	Mr President, today we are debating - and we have been doing this for days - the opportunity to leave the rather controversial text of the draft law, which was adopted in the House on 4 November, with a different majority from the one represented today in this Assembly. I would point out that the situation does not allow a great deal of freedom of choice, in the sense that, if the debate continues, both in the Commission and in this House, with the adoption of amending proposals, there is a risk that the measure will be finally sunk down and that it will not go ahead. The alternative is precisely to make it pass as it is. Therefore, I have already decided not to present any amending proposals and, therefore, to encourage a rapid conclusion of the debate, hoping that this sacrifice and limitation of the freedom that each of us has given ourselves will ultimately be useful and go in the direction of truly protecting LGBT subjects, who have every right not to be discriminated against and to see their gender identity represented within a fully and widely inclusive society, such as the one that the Constitution outlines and defines clearly. What leaves me extremely perplexed, however, is that the majority of the government itself, which today is so divided on the measure under consideration, instead, in the Council of Ministers where the reform of justice has been discussed in recent days, has found itself fully in agreement on a line that somehow makes it more difficult, not only for those subjects but for anyone, to see the principle of certainty of punishment achieved. Therefore, given and considering that part of this parliamentary assembly is moving for the repression of the crime cases, including the incitement to criminality and the fulfilment of acts of violence dictated by homophobic intents, in some way extremely difficult and complex to demonstrate, I wonder why everyone, both right and left, agrees to support and support a reform of justice that will erase many crimes, because they will practically become unpunished because of the improbability of the various degrees of judgment, appeal and Cassation. So I hope that the Democratic Party, the 5 Star Movement and all the political forces that are supporting the Zan bill today - to which I am close at the moment, because I think it is right to support this measure, although imperfect - and are pressing for it to be approved as it is, so as not to risk it being sunk in any way, then assume their responsibilities. Then when the justice reform comes to the Commission and in this Chamber, which is in fact the possibility of the certainty of the penalty for so many crimes - let alone those in question, which in this measure are outlined in a very labile and difficult to prove, because the burden of proof is always for those who accuse - I hope that they are consequent and take clear positions to allow also the Zan bill to function in the direction they wanted, demanding the modification and therefore the integration of two articles of the penal code, 604-a and 604-b, precisely to punish in a rigorous way all the crimes related to homophobia, both in the form of aggravating of the penalties, and those due to the incitement to commit crimes. When I declare that I will vote in favour of the measure as it stands, let me look at how the debate on the reform of justice will proceed. And I expect, precisely by those political forces that are working on this measure today to be fired immediately - there is absolutely a need for it to be fired now and cannot be changed, because otherwise it is being sunk down - that they are consequent and therefore maintain a position in favour of the certainty of the penalty and a conclusion of the trials that render justice not only to the perpetrators, but also to the victims of the crimes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u52	Senator Marin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have read the sectarian text described by Senator Malan and found it disturbing in every single line. However, President-in-Office of the Council, this measure has served more than anything else to highlight numerous, more or less well-known personalities who have taken a stand on this issue and who are proposing themselves as promoters of hot water. Sexuality is an intimate function, which must be experienced among consenting adults; it does not need Zan to suggest what is right and what is wrong. [[Applause]] But the alibi is based on the fact that people who are not straight suffer more violence than those who are straight. Who said that? Where is it written? Are we sure that most of those violent acts are carried out exclusively for reasons of sexual orientation? We are so used to listening to a nagging tam tam that prevents us from properly evaluating cases. Selective and smoky legislative proposals, such as the draft law n. 2005 and others, have no sense of existence, because they have implicit underlying purposes, condemning and sanctioning freedom of expression. The sense of our parliamentary role cannot be trivialized and channeled into a single extreme vision, which wants to bend to popular pietism, which is the tool that serves to manage a situation that is mollant as protection, but instead aims at control to approve and almost automatic consent. [[Applause]] Why? Because it's easier, gentlemen. In point (d) of Article 1, "gender identity' means perceived and manifested identification. But from a legal point of view, what does that mean? Percepted how? Perceived when, in what context, on what occasion? [[Applause]] This bill, which has serious problems, favours ambiguity and, of course, the opportunism of some. In practice, if I claim to be a woman today, I can participate in competitions as a pink quota. [[Applause]] ; I sign up for competitive competitions in female rows, so my biologically male muscle mass can help my success in the context [[Applause]] ? How does Zan plan to solve this reality? The bill under consideration is a patch law, which intervenes on a highly specific symptom, rather than on the cause. Ahead of a crime such as incitement to hatred, any form of hatred, be it racial, homophobic, misogynistic or cultural, there are dynamics that the provision does not even consider. Therefore, at present it is a useless list of crimes already included in other important measures. Articles 7 and 8 are disturbing. The aim is to manipulate the development of children by putting them in the face of issues that appear to be little relevant to age and risk undermining the ethical bases of primary education. [[Applause]] , giving the school and teachers the responsibility to address an intuitively unshared theme by the entire teaching body, thus delegitimatizing the family, where the primary educational figure has always been and will always remain the parent figure [[Applause]] Instead of educating children to respect for life, for all lives, from the simplest to the most complex, we want them to believe that the experience of reality is a fiction, being humanity not biological, but object of infinite, changing identities. All this is translated into an age in which self-perception is being formed in relation to the world around us. Will the school that chooses not to celebrate the national day against homophobia, lesbophobia, biphobia and transphobia be able to do so or will it be destined to pay for this choice of freedom? It degrades the family institution and those who dare object end up in trial [[Applause]] Among my university texts was "Walden due" by Burrhus Skinner, a behavioral psychologist, father of working conditioning. The conditioning of society begins by shaping the minds of children. Of the so-called gender ideology, to which the Pope has reserved very strict judgments, it has been understood that, instead of promoting freedom of choice and action, it raises deep doubts about the faculty of free expression. Anyone who may be the victim of criminal proceedings may be subjected to interception or even precautionary measures. An important question remains about the self-certification of one's changing identity: if I can be what I want and it matters only what I perceive of myself, the rest becomes a potential source of discrimination against me. [[Applause]] Mr President, the outcome that each magistrate will give, with his own personal interpretation, can only be a random judgement, made of uneven and arbitrary applications. How can a dissension be exercised over what becomes a state law? It leaves without word the claim to rewrite, by law, human nature and all its nuances and facets, with a terminology, to implement a conditioning that is expressed with words as protection and freedom, but that, in truth, imposes a doctrine that leaves no degree of freedom; a sentence of condemnation established and perceived not universally, but according to one's own perception. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important and I think it is useful to take a look at the situation, not so much from a legal, legislative and criminal point of view, because my colleagues have explained and will explain the facts very well, but from a political and historical point of view. I was in this House - for example - during the last parliamentary term, during the debate on the provision on civil unions, a subject which was very much debated at the time. Even then, in the last parliamentary term, there was a lot of animosity, there were many discussions and I think it is important to start from that very moment. There are two aspects that need to be taken into account. The first important aspect is to understand who was in this House and who was outside. In here we were definitely the League and there were the Democratic Party, Forza Italia and the Movimento 5 Stars; there were almost all political forces. Then there was someone standing outside. Why is it important to remember who was out there? It is because outside, during the discussion of the text on civil unions, there were many people who came to demonstrate for the approval of the law and to ask to approve it in a short time. I say this simply because there is no one out here today; there is no one today, there was no one yesterday and very likely there will be no one tomorrow either. [[Applause]] And this is not because the issue is obviously not important, but probably because it is not true that the citizens feel it is so of interest, on the understanding that it is a problem that we must and we are able to solve. The citizens probably do not see this as a priority issue. We have to start with a basic assumption, that is, there are laws that already protect those who are discriminated against. There are laws that protect those who are violently, harshly and harshly offended, regardless of why they are offended, ridiculed, discriminated against, distanced and mocked. In each of these cases, in fact, unfortunately questionable, despicable and condemnable, there is definitely a reason: it can be a personal, ethnic, racial reason and unfortunately it can also be a religious or sexual reason, but there is always a reason. Where you commit a crime, a criminal offense, an offense, a reason always exists. We do not understand, therefore, why, by defining particular situations, where we are obviously all in agreement in this House that a certain type of crime must necessarily see a tightening of penalties, this does not translate into unanimity in the Commission and in this House. We do not understand why this House is not allowed - in my view forced - but, above all, the Commission, to formulate a text which is shared on a subject on which we all agree in the end. Maybe there's a reason. The reason - in my opinion - is because someone here believes that civil rights are only on one side. [[Applause]] Perhaps because someone believes, in turn discriminating, that only a political party has to deal with certain issues and only to this part is delegated the protection of certain people. That is why it is important to start with those who were outside then and those who are outside today, because we are most likely mistaken in our legislative attitude. I personally have my own political history, short or long, whether it is important or not, which has lasted for ten years anyway, and like me, hundreds of thousands of people, some of whom are sitting in this House right now. Along with many people we have made a long political journey, which then interrupted, another began, but in all this there is one fundamental fact: in my political career, for example, in the Movimento 5 Stars, never in ten years of political activity - and I emphasize never - a gazebo or a banquet was organized to defend civil rights. There has never been a press conference in support of civil rights. Why do I say that? Perhaps because civil rights are not important? No, simply because, when you make politics, you choose some topics. I'm an aerospace expert and maybe I'm not interested in justice; I don't understand anything about it and I don't care. Isn't justice important? Yeah, but that's not my point. This had been done. An ideological choice had been made, a political choice, and some issues - those we are discussing at the moment - were not part of the DNA of my former political force. And I repeat not because it wasn't an important issue, but because we didn't care. As evidence of the truthfulness of what I am saying, I can give some examples: after the 2013 elections I was contacted by LGBT associations who asked me what we would vote in the Senate. I replied that I did not know and that freedom of conscience would probably be given because it was not our theme. Similarly, after the 2018 elections, I was contacted by the LGBTQ associations - a letter of which I ignore the meaning - that they asked me the same thing and I replied in the same way, that I did not know it and that freedom of conscience would be given. Basically why did I make this argument? I am very concerned at this moment by colorful masks worn ideologically for who knows what reason. I am very concerned by those who support a clearly liberticidal bill today, especially those people who until yesterday were completely disinterested in the issue of civil rights. Having said that, I would like to talk about two technical and legal aspects for what is my - albeit minimal - competence. I am very concerned to think, downstream of the adoption of this bill, about what could happen in elementary, middle and high schools; about who would enter the schools - perhaps Mr Malan also mentioned this - and to say what. I would like only teachers who have a contract to enter schools, who have to follow a program; I would like only public administrators, authorities or law enforcement agencies to enter certain ceremonies. No one else, in my opinion, should be entitled to enter the schools. I believe that the state should be able to protect its children from external interference, from unqualified people, but randomly chosen in the pile simply for political-electoral conveniences of facade, flag, which could be really extremely harmful. There is, then, one last aspect in relation to what we are going to go, perhaps - hopefully not - to tell children in schools. Unfortunately, there was no opportunity to debate in the Commission, to hold so many hearings on such an important subject, on what sexual attitudes mean today, on what sexual attitudes are, what sexual habits are. If we had had the opportunity to deepen this aspect, perhaps we would have understood that not everything can be said and told, that not everything can be spoken to a child of six, ten, twelve, fifteen years old. Not everything can be reasoned with these fragile people; not everything can be shown to children in certain ways. We can probably not deal with some issues; there are limits - in my opinion - absolutely insurmountable. For this reason I married the line of our party that is absolutely common sense: it is a logical line, but above all it is in line with our Italian history and culture. We do not need European models. We do not need trans-European models. We need to remember what our traditions are and what our culture is. This we can do with respect for all, leaving all citizens free to love each other and share their lives with whomever they want, but trying to respect and balance the rights of all citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u56	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u57	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is about something that is probably one of the most discussed at this time in social media and public debates. Basically everyone is talking about it, they're talking about politicians, artists and influencers. Anyone who can shoot a video or write a post at this time has taken care of or will deal with this discussion shortly and not so much because it is actually so heard, but because it is feeding on what has become an ideological opposition. But the point for me is not this, but the following: all these subjects that are dealing with the Zan bill, how many really know him? How many have read it? [[Applause]] That is why in my speech I want to draw attention to what is actually contained in the article, what exactly provides for the text of the bill, obviously starting with Article 1, which contains the definitions. For the purposes of this Act: (a) sex means biological or national sex. I think they should coincide, but let's move on. (b) Gender means any external manifestation of a person who complies with or conflicts with social expectations related to sex. I have a degree in law with the highest marks, I have an empirical knowledge deriving from a competence gained in thirty years of professional and personal history, which leads me to be a bit 'in the mechanisms and technicalities of the laws, but I honestly admit that I felt a bit 'in difficulty in understanding the letter b) of paragraph 1. Anyway, let's move on. In point (c) it is expressly provided that "sexual orientation" means sexual or affective attraction towards persons of the opposite sex, of the same sex, or of both sexes. This is entirely natural, I agree with it and, therefore, we go forward with letter d): "Gender identity means self-identification perceived and manifested in relation to gender, even if not corresponding to sex, regardless of having concluded a transition path." There is, in my opinion, an incongruity, an incoherence here. I believe that the letter d) of paragraph 1 of Article 1 is a contradiction in terms, because two conflicting concepts, such as identity and transition, cannot be expressed in the same period. In fact, identity indicates, in its literal meaning, a relationship of exact equality; whereas the transition indicates a path, an iter, a passage from one situation to another which essentially implies a dynamic of change, an evolution. So either we talk about identity or we talk about transition and it is not a purely ideological or concept disquisition, because then, basically, when we go to evaluate the practical applications of the law, this distinction becomes fundamental and - in my opinion, but this is a conviction that I have always and I believe shared by the whole of my Group - the rules must be clear. If the concepts and definitions contained in the rules are not clear, then it opens up to interpretation and, inevitably, interpretation leads to arbitration. That is why, in the definitions contained in Article 1 - in my opinion - a reflection should be opened. [[Applause]] The data shall be objective. Objectivity lies in the fact that the sexes are two: the League doesn't say it, I don't say it and science doesn't say it, even if, at the moment when two parents go to a gynecologist to ask what sex the child is, these generally indicate two. This conviction, however, is not only ours and is not biased, because in an article published yesterday by the Journal, in an interview with Mr Francesca Izzo, a former member of the DS who calls himself a feminist, titled "I, feminist, I explain why the law is wrong," there is a contradiction. The journalist asks her if the Zan law fights discrimination; in the face of the denial of this possibility, the journalist urges her to ask what she, a woman and a feminist, is more concerned. The simple answer is that the conception underlying the expression "generic identity" is radically questioning binaryism, that is, that mankind is divided into women and men. To the question whether this is harmful to children, Mr Izzo answers yes and leads the journalist to ask whether this law involves a reversal of reality. The answer is peremptory: "Sure." To the question, at the end of the interview, if he is also concerned about freedom of expression, Mr Izzo answers: If gender identity is removed, there are a lot of risks (...) if I say that I am a woman and that humanity is divided into men and women, as is already the case in other countries to be censored. I'm very worried. There have been many such examples. So I am not talking about right-wing ideology or a specific political part; let me be clear: I am not using the words of a former MP of the DS because I would miss the right ones to define the same concepts, since I share them, but I simply believe that hearing the same things from those who, ideologically speaking, are certainly not of the League, of the center-right coalition, nor close to me, can allow someone to understand that they are probably exceeding themselves in this opposition and instrumentalization of a process of law that, in my opinion, would need more caution. However, once we have clearly and unequivocally defined that there are both supporters and detractors of the measure, we try to understand whether the first or the second might be more right. According to the advocates of the law, here we are not talking about violation or limitation of the rights of some, but of the affirmation of those of others; let us see then if it is true, continuing always, however, not in a physiological disquisition, but in the reading of the law. Specifically, immediately after Article 1, Article 2 provides for the updating of Article 604-a of the Criminal Code: this is one of the articles governing crimes against equality and providing for punishment. Therefore, it is not true that we are talking about introducing rights, because, after the definitions, we expect to introduce punishments; therefore, the argument supported by many colleagues in the House of the Left's side, who claim that it is a question of introducing rights, is not true and is denied by the very text of the bill, which Article 2 provides to amend, with a long list of cases of punishment, Article 604- bis of the penal code, precisely proposing to punish those who instigate or commit acts of discrimination on racial, ethnic, national and religious grounds or based on sex, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity. So, when you say you want to introduce rights, you support something that is denied by the text of the bill. The distinction between propaganda and incitement should also be deepened, which is the subtlety that allows someone to introduce an alibi (because, in my opinion, this is a matter), with which to argue that it is not true that we are going to limit the freedom of expression, protected by our Constitution. Unfortunately, however, I do not have time to go into this subject, so I just ask a provocation and a question. Is it true that here we go to punish only the incitement and not the propaganda (which is totally legitimate, because, if the representations of those who identify themselves in one part and want to express it, obviously also the propaganda is)? Is that true? In many examples, colleagues have shown that this is not true, because, where laws similar to these exist, the facts show the opposite. The time available to me is running out, so I shall dwell very briefly on what, in my opinion, is the real reason for this bill. In the total absence of a left-wing ideology - and this is also demonstrated by Mr Izzo's speech yesterday - the centre-left is trying to re-establish the ranks and define the lines by saying: either we or you, or against or in favour. It is the reason why our openness and our tense hand, the intervention of our secretary Salvini - who really wanted to protect the rights of those in need - and those of President Renzi and of all those who have declared themselves available to confront - on which he tried an important synthesis also President Ostellari - have been rejected. Those open doors have been closed, because the interest of the left is not to protect these people, but to give itself a precise identity, of which otherwise it would be deprived for the total denial of those who had been the founding values of that precise political part. [[Applause]] That way, gentlemen, you don't do the interests of these people.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u58	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u59	Mr President, obviously the fact that the debate continues on Thursday sees many colleagues absent for various departures: all right, we take note of that. We come to the debate, which began with a lot of speeches. I would have hoped - but I see that there are no signs in this sense - that from the deepenings and interventions of each one could arise however the doubt and the will to deepen and understand the thesis of the other. It seems to me that it is becoming a mere oratory exercise and that is all. Let's say that the progress I was hoping to see, namely working to improve the text of the bill for the people we want to protect with it, will remain unheard, because it is clearly an ideological fact. In fact, there is no way that a bill approved in a branch of Parliament cannot be revised, improved or more shared. [[Applause]] Your rigidity is dictated exclusively by ideology, because it has to be so and that's all, and the truth, of course, is only you. Or, as my colleague Pazzaglini said, you need a flag to be planted at the top of the mountain: it is my result and it doesn't matter if there are dangerous twists. The Members who have spoken in the last two days have told you this: there are twists, of course. It means to be blind to say that the problem is only discrimination against people - I always say "the term," because we are talking about this - LGBT. Whatever their orientation, they're people. We should think - and I am modestly trying to do so - about an even greater emergency. Some Members have touched on the subject: the value that should be the basis of all our debate is respect, because in the first place of themselves and others there is nonviolence on women, children, disabled people and LGBT people. This is the emergency we have to face. In schools we see that bullying is increasingly widespread, whether it is cyberbullying or physical violence because one is fat, has another skin color, dislikes me or is gay. Regardless, there is this need for violence, but above all the absence, of course, of an education to respect. The point, then, is that we have to work on this. Maybe not everyone knows that in schools and municipalities they try to support families with a support to parenting, not to let some educator or some psychologist work, but because it serves. In the end, the strong core that creates the identity of a child or a child is the family, which will allow them to find the strength to face so many battles, not only when they are young or teenage, but also as adults. When there are great difficulties, in fact, in the end, people seek in the family the opportunity to resist, to share, to be understood and to face other challenges again. In this sense, I think it would be much more important to work. We come to these problems, because we must not forget that the episodes of bullying and similar not only concern the most fragile realities (in which there are educational and economic poverty and widespread violence), but also cramps of seemingly perfect families, from White Mill, affluent and cultured. Evidently not even there is taught to control violent urges that can harm others. Maybe we should work on this, because you don't understand how these kids and kids, whatever sex and orientation they are, might think it's normal to put a pill in a schoolmate's glass and rape it or a party ends up like we see in the chronicles. It's crazy, it's a very aberrant thing. Let us return to respect and education. Some articles and paragraphs of the Zan bill are fine, but others are dangerous and constitute a slut's horse that will lead the ideology to create very strange and really dangerous situations, because, if the pluralism of ideas is rightly reiterated, then it is added: "as long as it is not suitable to determine the real danger of carrying out discriminatory or violent acts." Who decides that? It is so labile and subtle that it is possible to create monstrosity. People - many examples have been given before - could be prosecuted for saying something very normal and expressing a point of view, as I am doing now. It is quite disturbing to think that tomorrow we will not be able to say insult, because that must not be done, but to say that we think differently than others, about the concept of family and many other things. You are doing - personally I disagree with this point - something really dangerous. If there were a minimum of vision and not just ideology and indoctrination, one would realize that there could be major problems. We're making a law, not a living room. That's why it's very dangerous. Senator Pazzaglini's emphasis on the various letters in Article 1 is also very special. Identity depends on externality. This is also very labile. If I dress in a certain way, yes; otherwise, no: what madness! Above all, we also think of years far away, when I was also young and we were all passionate about music, Lou Reed, David Bowie and many other artists. We loved them for their music and didn't care if they were homosexual. [[Applause]] They were great artists. Let's not confuse ideas. I wanted to stress something else, which perhaps not everyone knows. In this way, we are also shattering an immense problem, that of the people who really find themselves in a body that doesn't feel their own and who arrive with incredible pain and suffering to the transition. I have had the opportunity to deepen these words with analysts and psychologists. Such a path is so incredibly traumatic, painful and terrible that some people who come to the definitive transition with the physical change of sex - it does not happen rarely - are so destroyed by this passage, that they could legitimately do, that they even come to take their lives, because identity and physical are upset. We do not trivialize the defense and respect that must be given to each person and also to the whole LGBT world with the monstrosity that is created looking for indoctrination in schools, which is absolutely harmful, in my opinion, or with the abomination of being able to be prosecuted only for opinions that can be exposed today and that can no longer be manifested at another time, even though they are extremely respectful people of each. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u60	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with a principle. I am convinced that diversity in all its expressions in nature is certainly a value for both mankind and when we talk about different temperatures or gravitational fields. In short, diversity is what makes our universe alive. Turning to the subject specifically and also talking about psychosexual development, it is a natural process, which concerns each one of us, and a fundamental aspect of the complex human nature, which is certainly the most intimate and private sphere. It is a psychic and physical process that originates with conception, then continues with development and education. The Greeks spoke of eros, Freud spoke of libido; one could also speak of instinct in general and, simplifying, it is clear to all that then they must intervene social rules. The sense of modesty and, of course, the necessary laws also intervene in a community. Today more than ever it is necessary to legislate precisely in order to lay down rules that have perhaps also been annihilated by the way of life in a society without references, which a famous sociologist called liquid and which opposed a rigid one. You see, in the society in which so many of us have grown up in this House today, perhaps there were more references than there are today, and I believe that this is not an evolutionary process. The sexual sphere, with its behaviors, always remains, in my opinion, the most intimate and strictly private sphere of each of us, as well as - a very different theme - the religious orientation. No one can afford to judge or discriminate against others for sexual orientation, as well as for religious orientation, because they are both part of our intimate sphere and our freedom. The basic principle, which we must take into account, is that of mutual respect for the freedom of each individual, in all the resulting expressions. Judging, if anything, must be our working skills and our commitment to work. Public are our social relationships and the ways in which we relate to our neighbors and others in general. It is therefore our work and our social behavior that must be judged and certainly not our sexual attitudes. I believe, precisely as regards respect for neighbour, that in terms of tolerance and rights, as Italians, we have a long history and culture and deep and rooted customs. That is why we all agree that we already have a great Constitutional Charter, which says everything. It has happened in these days, in this House, that, due to the supposed superiority of certain left-wing ideologies, the legitimate and due debate on very sensitive issues was to be avoided. It happens that it is proposed to vote on a law as it has been passed in the other branch of Parliament, as if our role and our point of view were considered not only not useful, but even harmful. Such an attitude is certainly detrimental to the most basic democratic and constitutional rules. What we have asked and are asking, especially in a large majority government, is precisely to respect the opinions of all, but in doing so, with the stated intention of protecting the rights of the citizens of this country, we have tried to limit the freedom of expression of ourselves legislators. It seems to me that there have been many laws from the Chamber of Deputies that have been discussed and amended, and so many are those that are under discussion and waiting to be adopted, on issues that, for what is my opinion, I think are very important, especially in the context in which we are living. Returning to our Constitution and to our culture, it seems to me that as far as that virtue called tolerance is concerned, Italians should not take lessons from anyone. The debate is absolutely necessary, precisely because in many respects, from a legal point of view, the issue is complex. The dog in which we were dragged and the tones that result from it risk not having us dealt with the arguments in a complete manner. We need to discuss and respond to everyone's needs, in accordance with our firm constitutional principles. Otherwise, instead of the sex of angels (as they say), we might find ourselves discussing their gender identities, and it would certainly not be an evolutionary process, especially in a context in which we also have so much more to plan (and we know how many urgent topics there are in discussion in all the Commissions). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u62	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law. The sitting was suspended until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.21 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u63	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Education, the Minister for Tourism and the Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Drago has the right to explain question 3-02707 on the interprovincial mobility of role teachers for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u64	Mr President, Minister, for years between 9,000 and 13,000 teaching staff, according to what is learned by crossing the Istat data and the supplementary national collective agreement, they have been applying for interprovincial transfer, allowing them to return or approach the place of origin and only a small percentage of these applications are satisfied because of a unclear and inefficient allocation mechanism. Numerous are the criticalities, partly referable to the supplementary collective agreement (the last drawn up). Petitions have been filed in the Senate and in the European Parliament to request reopening of the national collective agreement and the implementation of extraordinary mobility, as the situation to date seems to penalise specific sections of this professional category. Further obvious problems arise from the methods of processing the retirement practices of the teaching staff: the flow of information that should take place between the educational information system (Sidi) and the INPS, according to a priority order and taking into account the effective availability of places for mobility, takes place not respecting a logical and consecutive chronology, so that the INPS should be able to communicate to the Ministry of Education the data relating to the retirements of the teaching staff in advance of the expiry of the submission of mobility applications and consequently before the Sidi is closed. This is not the case, as retirement practices must be worked after the application for mobility has been submitted. Consider that the right to mobility of teachers of role has a priority character, as stated in the single text of the education, referred to in legislative decree n. 297 of 1994, which in article 470, paragraph 1, reads: "specific contractual agreements between the trade unions and the Ministry of Education define times and modalities (...) for the overcoming of the division between places reserved for mobility from outside the province and those reserved for admissions in role, so that the latter are carried out on the remaining posts that remain vacant and available after the completion of operations related to professional and territorial mobility in each school year." The question therefore arises as to whether the Minister is aware of the situation in which teachers are out of office and what urgent steps he intends to take to remedy it, including by working with the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, so that the results of the retirement procedures can be transmitted in good time in order to allow adequate response to requests for the transfer of teaching staff.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u65	The Minister for Education, Professor Bianchi, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u66	First of all, I thank Senator Drago. Given that, pursuant to Article 6 of the Supplementary National Collective Agreement - three years 2019/2022 - territorial and professional mobility operations are divided into several stages and that the same contract, in Article 8, regulates the availability of seats for mobility purposes, I would remind you that for the 2021-2022 school year, without prejudice to the 50% reserve for admissions in the role, the remaining part of the posts was allocated half to territorial mobility and the other half to occupational mobility. I agree with you, however, with regard to the need also felt by the Ministry to obtain timely data on terminations from the service, which is the prerequisite for the proper start-up of the school year, including mobility. To this end, the Administration operates in constant connection with the INPS: the deadline for determining the right to pension treatment is shared with the Social Security Institute and indicated in the pension circular. This date shall be taken into account for the preparation of the ministerial order on transfers which provides for the closure of the functions of the Sidi for the elaboration of applications for mobility only after the passage of computer flows on the certification of retirements by the INPS. However, as you know, the criticalities you have pointed out are not so much due to this factor, although relevant, but rather to the traditional territorial mismatch between the vacant and available posts and the residences of our teachers. To help meet the demands of many teachers, the Government wanted to give a first significant response with Article 58 of the decree-law support- bis which, by amending Article 399 of the single text in the field of education and Article 13 of Legislative Decree No. 59 of 2017, has reduced from five to three years the constraint of permanence of the newly hired teachers in the first assignment. The new forecast balances the need to ensure the continuity of teaching in the educational community and at the same time meets the legitimate expectations of teachers to approach the territories of origin. Indeed, Senator Drago, it is necessary to ensure a fair contemplation between opposing needs: on the one hand, the legitimate aspirations of teachers, as you represent; on the other hand, the need to ensure adequate stability for staff so as to improve the quality of teaching through continuity. This is precisely in the interest of our students. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that for the 2021-2022 school year, compared with 87,454 applications for mobility, there were 47,230 national applications, equal to 60.4% of the total number of teachers who participated in the ordinary procedure. In detail, 40,786 applications for territorial mobility were accepted, for a total of almost 7,000 journeys outside the Region. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the right to speak in response to Senator Drago for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u67	Minister, I am clearly not satisfied with the answer simply because the reason why the applications received are less than expected is also due to the time reserved for mobility applications: during Easter holidays, as you well know, in Covid period, teachers should have booked advice from trade unions. Other problems are related precisely to the national collective agreement supplementing: the third year, which would be the next school year 2021-2022, we reserved only 25% of the seats available for mobility, contrary to what stated in the aforementioned legislative decree n. 297 of 1994 to article 470, paragraph 1: priority of mobility of teachers in role compared to the new admissions in role. It's not enough. The most serious situation, in my opinion, is the fact that there are many judgments of the TAR of Lazio and the Cassazione (Working Section), the most recent of which is No. 07589 of 24 June 2021, which states that computerized procedures cannot circumvent the rules of law at the expense of school staff. We are violating and infusing the moral welfare of teachers who are mostly women; therefore, we are absolutely not taking civil rights into account. We have absolutely exhausted families from all points of view, especially from the economic point of view but also from that of the psychophysical balance. I really hope today doesn't just become... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u68	Senator Romeo has the right to explain the question 0-32710 on the reopening of schools in safety for the new year 2021/2022, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u69	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, about forty days after the beginning of the 2021-2022 school year, we MEPs would like to know, but all the citizens want to know, where we are with the plan of repartition in schools in safety, especially with attention to what is the speech related to finding new spaces and new classrooms. We would like to go into the question of teachers and see if we really have all the chairs allocated this school year. On the other hand, we would like to know if we will follow the topic of the tracking of infections with particular attention perhaps also to the gratuitousness of the swabs or salivary tests, which are less invasive and that could be very good for children. We would like to know where we are on the question of transport, whether there will be a maximum capacity, the strengthening of public transport, the possible presence of time slots. We would also like to be informed about indoor air sanitization, which is an important element and recently has been allocated EUR 200,000 for its Ministry to go in this direction in schools. Let us imagine, however, that this is not enough. We want to know exactly where we are, very clearly because in the newspapers and in the media we feel a little 'of all colors, including the idea of reserving the school in presence only to the vaccinated students, excluding and leaving in Dad those not vaccinated. We hope that this will be a joke and we would like to know in detail what the content of the plan is and, above all, when it will come to Parliament to explain it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u70	The Minister for Education, Professor Bianchi, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u71	Mr President, I thank Senator Romeo for his questions. The position of the Ministry and my staff was always that of school in presence. [[Applause]] When the second pandemic wave occurred in recent months, we still kept the children and girls of the primary in school and kept the use of distance training to a minimum for all the others. The recent data of the Invalsi, those of yesterday, show that this continuing insistence on our presence was right and we work and we are all working for this. I would point out, however, that in the so-called support-a decree, state schools will be able to count on 350 million, not 200,000, for all the intervention measures necessary to ensure the safety of the specific school environments and, for the same purposes, 60 million more were allocated to equal schools. For local authorities, an additional 70 million were allocated for the rental of premises and rental of temporary facilities to increase, as you wished, the number of spaces dedicated to teaching. Not only, as you know, in the so-called support decree- bis we have requested additional resources for temporary assignments for ATA staff and teaching staff. We all hope to be at the end of this long tunnel, but we must prepare ourselves, we are doing so and we have done so. With the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility and the Ministry of the Interior in the decree support-bis we have allocated 450 million in order to upgrade the additional services of school transport and previewed the possibility for the regional school offices to conclude directly conventions with economic operators operating the service of transport. Schools will also have access to a 50 million fund to finance home-school-home travel plans for school staff and students. On this remains active the fundamental tools that are the prefect tables. As far as the vaccination plan is concerned, I believe that it plays a fundamental role. As you know, we are already far ahead; as far as teaching staff are concerned, we are already at a level that allows us to begin to consider that we are close to the 80% result, with differences between regions. As far as exceeding the vaccination threshold is concerned, of course I appeal for all young people to be vaccinated, but mine is an appeal and these are also the considerations we have made at the CTS, from which we are waiting for the final figure. This is how we are dealing with the situation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Romeo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u72	Thank you, Minister. He mentioned some important figures and we hope that the money allocated will correspond to the actual implementations, because unfortunately we have seen so many times allocate the resources and then, from a practical point of view, struggle in the times with the implementing decrees and with the realization of the interventions and whatever else. We hope that, since there is little time left for the beginning of the school year, we will go in this direction. On the question of vaccinations - we repeat it to the children, to the young people - the appeal to the general vaccination is there. But with young people and young people, since there are still no actual studies on possible side effects, we would move more carefully. Perhaps it is better to strengthen, with the tools we have highlighted, the school system to ensure the safety of students and avoid choices that push in some way in the direction of the obligation. Not to the kids. We must guarantee them the presence at school in safety, but on this issue - we already anticipate it - the League, if the government were to go in that direction, however it will do its battle. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u73	Senator Sbrollini has the right to explain the question 0-32709 on initiatives to support tourism, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u74	Mr Minister, as you will certainly know, tourism figures are unfortunately not encouraging: we are talking about almost 88 billion lost in 2020 and, unfortunately, 2021 does not seem to give important signs of recovery, not even with the summer bookings. We know from the estimates made that many Italians have decided to spend their holidays in Italy just to support our tourism, but all this is not yet fully sufficient. The role of foreign tourism we know how valuable it is in our country and one of the reasons, unfortunately, that has led to a decrease in foreign tourism in Italy is due to the delay of the European green pass that - as we know - can be granted after the recovery from Covid-19, after the completion of the vaccination cycle, after fifteen days from the first dose or, finally, with a negative buffer carried out in the forty-eight hours before. And we can also be a vital tool to participate in events such as banquets, weddings, parties. We therefore think that, in view of the neurological importance of the green pass in the lives of all of us, we must seek in every way to prevent the entire economy of the country from being further damaged by malfunctions or delays in updating the vaccination situation that many citizens have complained about these days. At the same time, we have seen new trends emerge for holiday destinations, so-called secondary destinations, that is those historic villages, often in slow abandonment, but rich in history and tradition. Precisely for this reason, Minister, I ask you, on behalf of the Italian Viva-PSI Group I represent, what measures you intend to take to facilitate the summer season, even for the so-called second destination villages, and to promote in the government fora possible opposition to new restrictions, even if we know that unfortunately the variants are not helping. We must in every way prevent closures such as those we have experienced in previous times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Tourism, Mr Garavaglia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the many issues raised, I would like to focus on two of them, the main ones: measures to facilitate the restart and tourism in the summer season, especially in the "minor" places (in quotes, because talking about minor places in Italy is an oxymoron), and the hypothesis of further restrictions in the summer season, which obviously sees us against. As far as the first issue is concerned, the most important things we have done are essentially two. The first is to act in the most serious, fast, rational and safe way possible on reopenings. GDP shows this: this will be the first year in the history of the Republic, in my memory, that you will find an Update Note to the DEF with a GDP higher than the forecast of the DEF. Why? Of course, manufacturing is okay, but tourism and services are also good, because the forecast has been anticipated, along with a whole series of issues including the European green pass, but also and above all the decision to reopen sectors such as catering: this makes you bill. The only real support is to go back to work; the rest is chatter. Coming to the other issues, we have included a whole series of financial measures: of the about 5 billion that concern the sector, I stop to those specific destined to the small villages, cities of art and anything else. I am reminded in the first decree-law supports the 10 million provided for in article 23-b for the cities of art and villages; in the decree-law supports- bis, of the approximately 75 million allocated, 60 million are foreseen for the municipalities where there are UNESCO sites and 5 million for the Italian municipalities that are part of the UNESCO city networks. It will never be enough, but at least these funds are addressed to them. As far as the subject of new openings is concerned, we are absolutely convinced that it is not conceivable to put further restrictions at this stage. Italy cannot afford a new lockdown; we need the responsibility of everyone and we need to respect, as far as possible, all the rules we have set ourselves, but we cannot think of further restrictions. [[Applause]] We think of a sector like that of discotheques: here too we apply common sense. It is better to reopen with the rules than to pretend nothing and to have young people who self-organize and certainly do more "damage" than to have fun in a healthy, safe and protected way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u76	I have the power to respond to Senator Sbrollini for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u77	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and I think that his answer is satisfactory, because it is in the direction that I also indicated in the introduction of our question time. In fact, in order to restart our economy we must start from tourism and work together in the same direction so that there are no new restrictions and closures. Our Group has always been for reopenings but, unfortunately, we have seen in these days some unupbuilding episodes, due to the irresponsibility of some. We need to work to make the green pass a very important tool. I think that, on the one hand, it would certainly be appropriate to evaluate what France is doing in this sense and, on the other hand, to support tourism and abandoned villages, which are wonderful historical villages, doing everything possible to help an extraordinarily important sector for the restart of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u78	Senator Stefano has the right to explain the question 0-32701 on the actual destination to the South of the relevant PNRR funds, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u79	Madam Minister, it is a shared belief that the PNRR represents a unique opportunity to launch the revival of the Mezzogiorno and the resumption of the process of convergence with the most developed areas of the country. We have worked very closely to ensure that the PNRR makes available to the eight regions of the Mezzogiorno resources quantified in at least 40% of the territorialised resources and, therefore, we are talking about some 82 billion, including the National Fund complementary to the PNRR. These figures are contained in a table published by the Government on its website, in which the EUR 81.55 billion allocated to the Mezzogiorno are allocated and defined among the six missions. However, several press and television stations in recent days have raised an alarm that has had a great echo, especially in the Mezzogiorno; an alarm on the basis of some elaborations made by some universities on the dossier elaborated by the study services of the two Chambers about the actual destination to the Mezzogiorno of the resources of the PNRR: it complains that almost 35 billion out of 82 have actual territorial destination in the South, while for the others the territorial destination would be put to later choices still unknown. Given that social and territorial cohesion is one of the fundamental pillars on which the planning of the whole PNRR is based and the lack of clarity on the point of the territorial location of the interventions is likely to cause concern and uncertainty in the citizens of the Mezzogiorno, I am here to ask whether it corresponds to the truth that the 81.55 billion allocated to the Mezzogiorno are really many and not only 35 and what, in practice, is the exact share of resources allocated to the individual missions and components; as well as what is the share from the resources lost and which on loans. With these questions, Mrs Minister, knowing her sensitivity, I would ask you to reassure us and reassure the Mezzogiorno. It is not a matter of bell tower: it is a matter of country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u80	The Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion, Mr Carfagna, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u81	Senator Stefano, the reduction of territorial divides is one of the founding objectives - as you recalled - of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Thanks to the investments that we have planned and directed to the Mezzogiorno, for the first time since the post-war period, there will be a significant convergence of the two areas of the Country with a higher growth of the gross domestic product of the South than that of the rest of the country. The impact of investment and resources will result in growth in the South of 24% compared to a national average of 15% and growth in female youth employment of 5.5% and 4.9% respectively. The objective of investing at least EUR 82 billion of PNRR in the territories of the Mezzogiorno is not a promise or a general commitment, but is the result of careful analysis, mission by mission, component by component, line of intervention by line of action, which we have carried out with the offices of the MEF and other competent administrations. The final amount of the analysis, the famous 40%, is a credible and robust result. We did not say that, but the same offices of the European Commission have said that, when the PNRR was approved, on the basis of the checks, simulations and controls carried out, they confirmed the allocation to the South of a share of resources not less than 40% of the investments. It is clear that we will achieve this objective on two conditions: that investments and reforms are actually carried out in the forms and ways that we have punctually estimated and that we will be able, as a country system, to accompany the southern territorial authorities to design and participate in the many calls for tenders provided by the PNRR. In order to support this enormous effort, we have not only limited ourselves to the programming phase, which in itself has been difficult to achieve in just eight weeks, but we are already working on the implementation and monitoring of the South quota. We are about to table an amendment to the Decree-Law on Governance to ensure that the central administrations with the interventions provided for in the PNRR ensure in the definition of the procedures for implementing the interventions, the allocation to the southern regions of at least 40% of the resources. This implies that, in addition to infrastructure measures already explicitly allocated to the Mezzogiorno, at least 40% of the resources allocated through calls are directed to the South. It is a real territorial destination constraint established by a rule; the resources are there and today there are also the instruments to protect their actual territorial destination. In conclusion, Mr President, I hope that the many debates and polemics of recent months and weeks, the right concerns but also the exploitations - incomprehensible for the extraordinary moment that we are living, which requires everyone to work to build and improve rather than nurture distrust - will now leave the pace to a shared and shared commitment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u82	Senator Stefano has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u83	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the assurances and also for the commitments you have made here to strongly support the phase ahead, which is the most challenging one: the one in which resources must be spent. We have a great theme before us, to offer services, infrastructures and universal rights, even in the Mezzogiorno, in the same way as other areas of the country. We must accompany this effort and, in order to do so, we must try to exercise synergistic action. As far as I am concerned, we will accompany you as parliamentarians. We had foreseen, already at the stage of the discussion of the guidelines in Parliament, if we do not intervene in these terms, we will risk, by simple calls, that the more equipped administrations will continue to drain more resources than the others. That is why I am certainly pleased with your assurances and I am sure that we will do a good job together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u84	Senator Damiani has the right to explain the question 0-32708 on the spending capacity of the European funds of the Southern public administrations, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u85	Dear Minister, the resources for the South provided by the Next Generation EU package, together with all those resources already provided by the Structural Funds and the Development and Cohesion Funds, are huge and have the aim, today, to bridge the economic differential that exists between the areas of the Mezzogiorno of Italy and also the rest of the country, including the whole of Europe. The PNRR - as we said just now - allocates EUR 82 billion to the Mezzogiorno of Italy, which is 40% of all territorialised resources, i.e. they have a specific destination on our territories. A new phase of convergence between the areas of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, those of the Centre-North of Italy, opens for the country, to the only indispensable and important aim of the development of the entire country. The last ten years, with a reference period ranging from 2008 to 2018, have not been important for the Mezzogiorno of Italy; on the contrary, we have seen a public expenditure mainly for investments that has reduced significantly, indeed it has halved and, taking this reference period, we move from a public expenditure of about 21 billion to an expenditure of 10 billion euros. We now have a more unique and rare opportunity, at this particular time, to use resources and above all to increase the level of expenditure and the ability to spend on public investment, physical infrastructure, digital infrastructure, sustainable energy, public housing, regeneration of urban areas, but above all on personal services. It is therefore an important opportunity. Having identified this mass of resources so important, we need to ensure effective and efficient spending. On the other hand, the unsatisfactory capacity of public administrations to use resources is long overdue, so that no expenditure is made and so many public works are not completed at all. It is therefore asked, kind Minister, what is the political intention of the Ministry to use resources effectively and efficiently and especially if within the framework of the legislation itself you can foresee initiatives to avoid inertia especially of public administrations and, therefore, spend well all the resources that we have available in such an important historical moment for our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u86	The Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion, Mr Carfagna, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u87	Mr President, Senator Damiani, I have given priority since the beginning of my mandate to the issue of cohesion policy governance and, consequently, to the issues related to the effective capacity of the public administrations responsible for implementing the plans, programmes and actions co-financed by the European Union, namely the effective use of the National Cohesion Policy Fund. As the honourable Member said, the coming years will be a difficult test because the Structural and National Funds will be joined by the substantial resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. In this context, in order to increase and strengthen absorption capacity and to ensure that the time limits for funding are met, I considered it appropriate to strengthen the role of the Territorial Cohesion Agency. To this end, in the framework of the so-called governance and simplification decree-law, we have worked to introduce significant regulatory changes that entrust new governance powers to the Agency for Territorial Cohesion, in addition to those already foreseen with regard to programming, coordination, monitoring and support of cohesion policy. Firstly, the Agency has been given the power to substitute for public administrations whose delay or failure to implement programmes financed by the Structural Funds can give rise to a real risk of de-financing. In order to avoid this hypothesis, it is now foreseen that, in the event of any failure, inertia or delay in the implementation of these interventions, the replacement powers may be exercised, as well as by the President of the Council of Ministers, by the Minister for the South and for territorial cohesion, as Minister Delegated through the Agency for Territorial Cohesion. Moreover, the Agency may assume the functions of an implementing entity, using a central purchasing body for the purposes of the effective implementation of the interventions, considered, moreover, the specific technical competence of which it is endowed. Finally, the procedures for exercising inspection and monitoring powers to ensure that the objectives of the programmes financed by the European Union or the Development and Cohesion Fund are met were further strengthened. It is now possible that these powers can be exercised, as well as by the President of the Council of Ministers, by the Minister for the South and territorial cohesion using the Agency for Territorial Cohesion. I believe that this system can be effective in preventing the risk of delays or, worse, definancing of interventions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u88	Senator Damiani has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u89	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the actions already put in place on the Structural Funds and on the Development and Cohesion Funds and, therefore, for the enhanced governance. This is also a further change in government's pace compared to past years. Already this, in my opinion, is an important step for the funds that we still have to spend today. Then there is the additional funds from the PNRR or the supplementary fund that we addressed in this Senate House just a few weeks ago with an important speech from the Minister for the South on that occasion. Now a further step is also due to the governance, the substitution, inspection and monitoring powers that will be used on public administrations to ensure that today a very important historical opportunity is not missed, as I said before, and that all resources are spent up to the last cent because today the interest to grow the South is national. We believe that, Minister, and wish you good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u90	Senator Ricciardi has the right to explain the question 3-02699 on the share of the PNRR funds allocated to the Mezzogiorno for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the PNRR states that 40% of the territorialised funds in the South will be available, i.e. some 82 billion. We just said that. However, on July 6th the morning published an article signed by Professor Gianfranco Viesti in which the actual amounts foreseen for the Mezzogiorno by the recovery fund are estimated at 35 billion and this share is equal to 16% of the total budget. Professor Viesti believes that, by adding up the appropriations for each of the lines of intervention for the South, only EUR 22 billion are committed, although it is highly likely that at least EUR 13 billion will then be spent in the Mezzogiorno and, in particular, in some lines of intervention there will be a precise indication of the geographical location of the expenditure, while in many others there will not. This does not mean at all that only EUR 35 billion will go to the South, but that only these will be guaranteed with certainty. Finally, with regard to non-territorializable resources, in the press article we wonder where the absolutely majority resources will end, for which there is no predefined territorial allocation, claiming that they will most likely end up in part where the economy is stronger and there will be greater "throwing" of the measures. In part, the article concludes, the outcome will depend on the content of the rules implementing the division that will be established by the various ministries that have the responsibility and, in part, will depend however on the outcome of the calls that they will prepare, precisely to allocate on a competitive basis the resources between the different beneficiaries and, again, on the criteria that always the Ministries will define for these notices. I would therefore ask you, Minister, if what is reported in the press is true, if there are indeed only EUR 35.3 billion in the individual spending measures for the South, which I repeat is 16% of the total appropriations, what are the reasons why only in some lines of action of the Plan there is a precise indication of the spatial location of the expenditure, how will be established the distributions of resources without a predefined territorial allocation and, finally, if with regard to non-territorializable resources, intends to set up systems of monitoring and information to citizens (open data) on the content of the rules of implementation of allotment and the criteria of departure provided for in the notices, in order to ensure respect for territorial equity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the South and Territorial Cohesion, Mr Carfagna, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u92	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Ricciardi and take this opportunity to clarify: the regulations with which the European resources of the recovery and resilience mechanism have been provided, unlike the Structural Funds, did not provide for and do not provide for any constraints on regional destination. Therefore, when it is said that the European Commission has imposed quantitative parameters on Member States, it is said to be inaccurate. The Commission asks the Member States to fill the territorial gaps and the choice of the Government, from the definition phase of the PNRR, has been precisely to ensure that a significant and defined part of the resources was allocated to the South, in the awareness that the priority to be achieved was precisely to reduce the territorial gaps, but also, of course, gender and generational ones. So the only cross-cutting objective of the Plan, as defined in the previous version of the work, the reduction of the territorial gap, has become a central objective. The South share of the Plan and the supplementary fund has been made explicit through timely and transparent work, to which I have already referred in the course of the previous response, carried out with the MEF and all central administrations, thanks to which we have been able to calculate the territorial division for each single line of action of the six missions of the Plan, with such credible and reliable work, which was considered such by the European Commission, which included it in the accompanying report to the favourable opinion expressed with regard to our plan. It is clear that the lines of action are extremely heterogeneous. There are infrastructure interventions defined and geographically located, for which the allotment is immediate, especially at a simplified first reading. There are absorption measures such as superbonus, for which we have even used very prudential criteria, based on historical data. For example, for the superbonus it has been estimated just 9% in the South, not even taking into account the simplification interventions, that they will be able to improve the attractiveness, introduced in the decree-simplifications law. Finally, there are ban measures, for which partition calculations have been used based on needs, needs, gaps and design capacity. The government's attention is focused on the bans. As I said before, we are going to include in the governance decree a provision to regulate the territorial allocation of investments, to guarantee the 40% percentage. The allocation of resources will be accompanied by a punctual monitoring of the actual location of the interventions, carried out at the highest level by the direction cabin, appointed together with the central technical structure and the mission structure at the MEF, the functions of verification and control of the territorial destination. In case of deviation, compensatory and corrective measures are envisaged. So the resources are there and there are also the tools to ensure the correct territorial allocation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Ricciardi has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u93	Mr Minister, thank you for your reply, which has made it possible to clarify a few points. However, I am not completely satisfied, even in the light of some of his statements he made in the press, in which he defined Professor Viesti's study as an approach between ideology and accountantism. Protecting territorial equity means respecting the Constitution and not ideologicalizing. Parliament calls for a precise quantification of the territorial allocation of PNRR amounts. My question concerns only one word: certainty. By analysing the 187 measures envisaged by the PNRR and the supplementary fund, only 61 provide certainty and specify the quantification of investments in the South. Where then - as you said - there is no spatial allocation address, the department will be carried out mainly through the publication of the notices; for this reason we will have to pay the utmost attention to all those indicators and all those criteria that have all too often favoured only some territorial contexts. That is why I would have liked to see the document containing the weight, percentage and amount of investment in the Mezzogiorno for each of the six missions also published in the official version of the PNRR and not only on the website of its Ministry. Finally, I am pleased to learn that you are working on a system of monitoring the respect of territorial destination and I can only applaud this initiative, which follows on from my amendment to the supplementary fund decree, which obliges your Ministry to submit annually to the Chambers, until the full implementation of the PNRR, a report on the territorial distribution of programmes and interventions provided for in the decree, also on the basis of the monitoring system. Parliament, Madam Minister, does not call for acts of unconditional faith, but for certainty. Of course, we still have faith in the Government, but we hope that it will be able to deny with the facts the concerns advanced by an ideological and accountantistic study in the interest of the Italian people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u94	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u97	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has recognised sexual and reproductive health as human rights. The text adopted a few days ago states that health rights, in particular sexual and reproductive health rights, are the fundamental rights of women, which should be strengthened and which cannot be weakened or revoked in any way. A decision, the one taken, which goes in the direction of at least three of the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development: ensuring a healthy life and promoting well-being and ensuring universal access to sexual and reproductive health to achieve gender equality is also part of actions aimed at creating a peaceful and more inclusive society at all levels. Violations of the sexual and reproductive health of women constitute a form of violence against women and girls and hinder progress towards gender equality. That is why the countries of the European Union must now ensure access to a wide range of high-quality, comprehensive and accessible services in the field of sexual and reproductive health and its rights and must remove all legal, political, financial and other barriers preventing full access to sexual and reproductive health and related rights for all persons. The text calls on Member States to ensure universal access to safe and legal abortion and to ensure that on-demand abortion is legal in the early stages of pregnancy, especially if the health of the pregnant person is at risk. It is no novelty that some Member States of the European Union apply strongly restrictive laws, which prohibit or make abortion difficult to access, forcing women to resort to illegal abortion, to go to other countries or to complete pregnancy against their freedom. This constitutes a violation of human rights and a form of gender-based violence. It is also time for Italy to adapt to the European directives on the right to sexual and reproductive health and to overcome the objective difficulties of access to abortion. In fact, the European Committee on Social Rights (CEDS), based on data from 2013 to 2015, wandered Italy as a country where it is increasingly difficult to abort. I address the Minister Speranza and the Presidents of the Region, in particular Piedmont, Umbria, Marche, Abruzzo and Calabria, to say that the time has come to restore services to women, both in the consultors and in hospitals. Women are not second-class persons, but have the right to access services that protect their sexual and reproductive health in full freedom, as provided for in Law No 194 of 1978 [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u100	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak because today is the anniversary of the death of a young Neapolitan, Mario Paciolla, and a deafening silence surrounds the death of this young man who participated in a peace mission on behalf of the UN in Colombia after a year. Mario Paciolla was thirty-three years old when, a year ago, he was found lifeless in his apartment in San Vicente del Caguan. We know he was found in his house, hung from a white sheet and with cuts in his wrists. We don't know the truth yet, we don't know anything about this case: was it a suicide or was it a murder? If it was a murder, why was Mario Paciolla killed? Colleagues and colleagues, Madam President, you will all remember that at the time we questioned the Foreign Minister, Luigi Di Maio, in this House, and that he undertook to put pressure on the UN, on the Colombian authorities, asking for their cooperation in the investigation. But the feeling a year later is of a curtain beyond which you can't go. This long wait of twelve months seems to us an eternity. Nothing is even known about the outcome of the autopsy arranged by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome. The time has come for the Italian judiciary to make public the results of the autopsy examination. Mario's family and friends have the right to know the truth, but our country must also know what happened that July 15 of a year ago. The Paciolla case cannot and must not be considered a B-series case. We know that Mario was afraid: the mother tells us that he heard him on the phone shortly before he died. We also know that the crime scene was altered, cleaned, and in the background there is something that does not convince and that concerns precisely the UN mission of which it was part. For this reason it seemed necessary to remember Mario Paciolla. We all need clarity. All of us feel prisoners of this silence, powerless in the face of silence [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u101	The Presidency supports the memory and attention you have drawn to the history of Mario Paciolla.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u104	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking about two very disturbing episodes. The first took place on 20 May in the East of Asti: a lady of ninety-one years was in her house robbed and raped for revenge by a nineteen-year-old belonging to the Roma community; Roma who lived in the nomadic camp precisely of the East of Asti. This man, Euro Seferovic, broke into a semi-open window door with a big axe, ripped off the lady's faith and earrings, undressed and raped her. Of course, despite such a violation, the lady was able to give directions and have her persecutor arrested. The problem, however, is that the 19-year-old lives in a situation of illegality, in a nomadic field where there is violence, abandonment, degradation and lawlessness in general. An analogous episode took place in the Comasco on 13 June: a woman of eighty-nine years was robbed and raped by a 26-year-old Nigerian homeless, with priors and an application for protection rejected. His name is Destiny Dike, a person who wasn't supposed to be in Italy. It's two disturbing episodes. I think no one should be raped. It's horrible to think about what happened to older women, no matter how smart. The second lady was also able to give such precise indications that the 26-year-old was arrested shortly afterwards. The urgency is to find a way to prevent it. There is only one prevention, which is not having people in our country who are not entitled to stay. It is clear that, if it goes well, they will be able to work in black, which is already something that is not right; but the easiest thing that can happen is that they are included in organized crime, or they live in gimmicks and therefore usually delinquancy. Those who come to our country must follow the rules. I urge Minister Lamorgese to think of a policy that protects our citizens, Italians and foreigners, who still follow the rules. Those who arrive, if I take refuge, must be welcomed, treated and helped in every way; but those who do not have the right - and we know it a priori, because they have the criminal record - must neither come nor remain in Italy. This means prevention, it doesn't mean being bad. We must, above all, defend the fragile people, who are also the two ladies I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u107	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank you for this opportunity because I have not signed up to speak in advance. I have now read in the newspapers - you will know too - and I would like to point out the very serious events of the last few hours in Germany following the bad weather: there are more than 50 deaths, more than 200,000 people evacuated, many missing. The whole area was hit by bad weather. I would therefore like to express my closeness to that people, in this moment of great discomfort, as a witness that, when nature turns, there is nothing that holds. Even for them the bad weather was sudden and caused a massacre. I therefore express the closeness of our Group and the other senators who, even if they are not present, I am sure they agree with me. Thank you for giving me this space.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u108	Senator Faggi, thank you for allowing the Presidency to associate and express its closeness to the German people and their institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u109	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-347.ana.u110	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 20 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16 p.m.
