ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2448.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech in any case, albeit in an empty Chamber. This year the budget law will be passed without even the appearance of a parliamentary debate. The institution that represents the citizens no longer serves, because, beyond the proclamations, this Government is not doing the interests of the citizens; we are aware of it and there are the facts that speak. In recent weeks and until the night between 20 and 21 December, the majority of the Draghi Government, representing more than 90% of the senators, repeatedly defied the meetings of the Budget Committee that were to serve to discuss the amendments and vote on them time by time. [[Brusio.]] I would kindly ask colleagues not to speak right under me while I am conducting my speech. [[Call the president back.]] The amendments have not been voted on time at a time. This time, in fact, the process of approving the budget law took place in the secret rooms, literally keeping the opposition of the Mixed Group out of the door. I was physically out of those rooms, while inside it was decided on the future of the citizens. In the Koch Room, where official sessions should have been held, the majority behind closed doors adapted for days of the budget law, until it reached agreement on the whole package of proposals before voting on them in a single river sitting at night. They asked us to mention only two of the amendments we had tabled. This practice is also well established, but in the night between 20 and 21 December they voted only four issues of majority amendments, reworded six or eight times to get their approval, literally killing all the others, as if they had never existed. Yesterday they finally let us into the Commission, only at the end of the official sitting - pure semblance - and they allowed those who asked him to perform the funeral of the amendments that had been considered dead. Yeah, it sounds like a fantasy story, but it's reality. Yesterday, a few minutes before 3 p.m., I asked for my amendments to be voted on, so that every single vote against would allow each amendment to be registered among those you will find on the Senate site, to prevent it from ending up in the common grave of the nameless. Do you know why I did this? Because every amendment tabled represents problems to be managed and resolved by citizens and Italy. One example is the amendments relating to the river basin of the Sarno river, a social scourge that has lasted too long (at least fifty years), because the policy does not want I'll take care of it. I have proposed that the catchment area of the Sarno river be identified as a site of national interest, given its environmental degradation and the danger to citizens' health and the economy. My second amendment, again on the river basin of the Sarno river, proposes the allocation to the basin authority of the resources necessary for the measures covered by the masterplan. Dear colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars - especially bell towers - I would like to remind you that we did this together and was initiated by Minister Costa, and yet none of you supported it: you will take it into account to the citizens. I have tabled amendments to remedy the unacceptable situation faced by the employees of the former State Forestry Corps, which the Midia reform has mortified, leading to an unreasonable dispersion of valuable skills, especially today that with the PNRR and the ecological transition we need competent people. Today we're gonna catch people who don't know the territory. Furthermore, the legal nature of the employment relationship of the workers of the former State Forestry Corps, to whom the national collective agreement of employment under private law applies, must be reviewed. How is it possible that the State does not yet resolve this issue? There are also proposals concerning animals, made by Mrs Sarli, who asked me to deposit them on my behalf, since the House will have the budget armored (this is also a well-established practice). These proposals provide for a reduction in the VAT rate on animal food and veterinary benefits from 22% to 10% and an increase in the maximum amount of veterinary expenditure that can be deducted to EUR 650, instead of the current EUR 550. Yet, we know - as the Assalco-Zoomark report of 2021 also tells us - that there are about 60 million pets and you can't help working on their well-being. It is necessary to facilitate the owners of animals and, above all, the veterinarians, because - as we have included in the Constitution - we must also protect their well-being. Then I want to talk about plastic tax and sugar tax, because the application of these two taxes has been postponed, but this postponement will create a financial effect, in terms of state coffers, equal to less 393 million euros until 2025 for plastic and less 462 million euros until 2025 for the tax on confectionery products, without forgetting of course the negative effects for the environment, the economy and the health of the citizens. Which side are the state and the majority? On the side of big businesses and the strongest? That's it, there's no doubt about it. I quote two examples for everyone, who have mobilized workers and citizens in recent weeks, but without success, because the government has decided to stand on the side of the strongest and simply ignore the good proposals, such as those we have made. I am referring first of all to the Government's amendment on relocations, which contains absolutely insufficient measures. In fact, it covers just over 4,000 companies, out of a total of 4.5 million, and above all it claims to discourage relocations by paying a penalty, when instead it should be asked for the return of public contributions received from the companies. Then there is the theme of differentiated autonomy: here too, there is a risk of widening the difference between North and South. In the square yesterday there were many people, but perhaps still few, because the South we are abandoning. A few weeks ago the Constitutional Court adversely assessed the state's delay in defining the essential levels of performance, (LEP) stating that it is necessary to define them urgently, also in view of an equitable and efficient allocation of resources related to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Moreover, the Court says that the delay in the definitions of LEPs is an obstacle not only to the full implementation of the financial autonomy of territorial authorities, but also to the full overcoming of territorial disparities in the enjoyment of benefits inherent in social rights. We were asking and asking for the measure on differentiated autonomy to be disconnected from the financial manoeuvre. In conclusion, Mr President, we represent the citizens and it is our duty to work for them. The Constitution requires us to do so, just as it requires us to control the government. This I will continue to do, even though the government is overturning its roles and, day after day, taking away spaces of democracy from Parliament. Citizens must know that their representation is at risk. Maybe I finished a little before the time at my disposal, maybe I ran and I wasn't linear enough in what I said, but I hope the message will pass. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u6	Mr President, as I have already said on other occasions, budgetary law is now a system which is not entirely consistent with the will of those who wanted it. It must be something completely different. Yesterday I heard a number of criticisms from the opposition parties, but also from the majority. In particular, this is the usual question: first we have a huge number of amendments, then there are those pointed out, which is a very different way of making fun of citizens. If the amendments tabled are credible, they must be discussed in this House, just as it was - you will remember - in the first Republic. We were not there, but at least we could follow the work on the radio: the debate lasted more than a week, with strong attention from the citizens. Today, however, we do not know why some amendments are being made and others are not. I would therefore like to address another question: it is not possible to alter the relationship between the Government and Parliament through the use of the budget law to incorporate certain rules, in particular reforms, which the Government believes it must adopt, without the danger - I stress the danger - that Parliament may change its ideas. Mr. Undersecretary, this is quite a crazy situation. I would therefore like to address a specific question which represents what I am saying. The amendments proposed by the Ministry of Justice in the matter of honorary judges are such as to highlight what I have just said. There was a discussion which lasted from seven months to almost one year in the Commission on the reform of the honorary judiciary. We have been waiting for seven months, particularly since the last part of July of this year, for the government's amendments. It seems strange to me that they have not been there for all these months and then arrived only at the time of the budget law. I refer in particular to the amendment to Article 186. Mr President, if you go to see this, it was the first time that Rule 186 provided for cover for a measure that was not there. We've always seen coverless measures. This time we had a cover for a measure that wasn't there yet. We discussed this last week in the Commission and, on my proposal, unanimously, Mr President, we called on the Minister of Justice not to table these amendments, referring to an overall discussion with Parliament in January, so that we could vote on a complete reform without any smearing. Why am I talking about smudges? We must bear in mind that, when it comes to the question of the honorary judiciary, there are two attitudes, which have always been characteristic. That of those who do not feel they need to value the function of the honorary judges and who hope, in their mentality, to eliminate them as soon as possible. This will never be possible. Then there are those who try to value them and thank them for what they have done for the administration of justice. In conclusion, I confine myself to one criticism. I ask you, who is an expert in the relationship between law and contract, how it is possible to make a law establishing the remuneration of the honorary judges through the reference to a determination of salaries that concern the employees of the public administration. You teach me that one is a legal determination, while the other is an effect of the contractual decision on the salaries of civil servants. What will happen if the same salary referred to in the standard is increased in the contract? Should the other, which is determined by law, be increased automatically? You don't understand anything. I'm just going to do this, President. I would very much like to see the opportunity - and I ask the Minister of Justice - to make a serious reflection in January, because in life it must be understood that sometimes immediate reflection can lead to useful corrections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u7	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u8	Mr President, representative of the Government, I will make a few quick comments on the draft budget law when we consider it. In anticipation, I too want to join in the choral thanks that have been addressed to all the commissioners senators, who have worked incessantly during the past hours to bring this important measure into port. Allow me, aware that this is also a thought of the entire Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, to thank our parent Massimiliano Romeo, who catalyzed all the demands of us senators, who are clearly those of the territories, and as always, he was able to make synthesis, brilliantly and responsibly, in the highest interest of our country. If anyone were to ask me whether I am satisfied with this draft budget law, as a senator of the Republic representing the nation and given the contingency situation in which we are in, that is to say, a permanent health, economic and social emergency, I could only answer yes: yes, I am satisfied. It could not be otherwise, given that the draft budget law intervenes on the increase of taxes, preventing it. On the contrary, for once (exceptional enough), we intervene by reducing taxes, with an allocation of EUR 8 billion; I can only be satisfied, if we also consider the important investment of 4 billion to contain the increase in electricity and gas bills. On this, however, it is necessary to open a parenthesis. As was reiterated yesterday by Matteo Salvini, this is an important measure, which concerns this moment, this moment, but it is not enough to face the near future. Not surprisingly, our Federal Secretary has rightly urged Prime Minister Draghi to set up an immediate resolution table to address this issue. In fact, while families have been lightened for 2022 in the payment of these bills, with a installment in ten months, on the other hand we have to consider the many companies and companies that are going into suffering. As mayor, I can also express my congratulations on the intervention that has been made on TOSAP, the tax for the occupation of public spaces and areas, in respect of commercial activities, restaurateurs, bars and all public establishments; we know that this type of intervention is also a very important aid. The League, then, made its voice heard regarding the security and rescue sector, allocating more resources for recruitment into the Forces of Order and investing additional resources to ensure that the salaries of our Fire Departments are equal to those of all the Forces of Order. One reason to be happy is also the important budget (€30 million) for autism: it means giving real help to families who suffer in silence and who until yesterday suffered forgotten. However, we know very well that with the excellent work of Mr Stefani this will no longer happen. We are also satisfied - and here too there was the authoritative and insistent voice of the League - also with the abolition of the ISEE ceiling on the 110% superbonus. I must also mention the area of justice and, in this respect, I am obliged to thank President Ostellari, all the other Senators of the League belonging to the Justice Commission and the Commission as a whole. Thanks to the intervention of the League, the rule of accessibility to justice was removed only after the full payment of the unified contribution. Immediately, from the first hour, we said that accessibility to justice cannot be tied to mere fiscal and bureaucratic fulfilment. [[Applause]] At the same time, we express our satisfaction with what is planned for the honorary judiciary, with a measure that is the best in recent decades and that has long been expected. We are happy, because we are talking about stabilisation and social security care, despite the fact that the League had been an active party, proposing sub-amendments that would have further improved the measure. I would like to turn to a point concerning the more territorial area. I have signed an amendment, at the first signature of Senator Lomuti, which concerns the Agency for the Development of Irrigation and Land Transformation in Puglia, Lucania and Irpinia, aimed at extending the fixed-term employment contract of current employees until 2023 and scrolling the ranking for another thirteen units. As has already been said, this amendment represents a first step towards the normality of this important body. We hope that, as it was done under the Count Government, I with our Minister of Agricultural Policy Gian Marco Centinario, finally establishes the public society that can definitively replace this body, guaranteeing stability to structure and employees. I relate to what Senator Candiani wisely said yesterday. The budget law cannot be the recipe for the thousand demands coming from the territory, but it must have a broad vision and consider the sectors in the vision of the whole nation as structurally as possible and not parcelled. This is certain and must be so, because the country comes first and - then - a series of issues that concern him but are more related to territorial areas. I would like to add that, from this point of view, we must try to bring the territory into the Palace after this budget law and not just through the instruments of the PNRR and the Complementary Fund. In fact, in the light of my very modest experience, I believe that there is a strabism that leads us to look only at this instrument, with the concrete risk of disregarding other possibilities. I say this because, as we all know, the PNRR must be the outlet valve to exit from this moment difficulties and project us towards the future. However, we also know that it has a very limited timetable for the implementation of interventions, namely 2026. Therefore, we must also pay attention to other instruments, from which politics cannot be exonerated. I do not want to dwell on the method by which this financial manoeuvre has been prepared and discussed, but I would like to make a comment. It is not acceptable that the trap with regard to certain measures is put by bureaucracy or by some Undersecretary who believes to be a teacher, instead of the representative of the Government. [[Applause]] The other instrument on which we must pay attention is the Development and Cohesion Fund. When we speak in vain in the South, we must say that the resources are there and that we must know how to identify and invest them. Mr President, I conclude by wishing all Italians and all Italians a merry Christmas, without having to speak, so that they are always proud of their identity: the one they have had since birth or the one they have decided to take during their lives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u9	Senator Pepe, thank you for your best wishes, and I hope that we all respect the times, otherwise on the 25th we will make them live here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u10	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u11	Mr President, the budgetary law that we are about to adopt is known to be the most important measure of the Parliamentary year and the one for 2022 is even more important, given the health, social and economic context in which we are in. The budget law under consideration, which contains measures of some 37 billion, represents a fundamental crossroads for the fate and future of the Italian economy, after almost two years of fear and uncertainty caused by this pandemic. Today, therefore, our country needs a courageous budget law, which is expansive, growth-oriented and aimed at contemplating all the different needs of citizens and businesses. For the Movimento 5 Stars the budget law is a very delicate and complex exercise, aimed at putting before the collective good, also with respect to personal interests and political consensus, because the Movimento 5 Stars does not make amendments to electoral or territorial gain, but takes care of the problems of the community that affect everyone in equal measure [[Applause),]] trying not to create standard citizens A and B citizens, in a logic that always sees us alone in these battles. I would also like to give a few examples: specifically, we all go on television to talk - or we hear it here in this House - about how well the 110% superbonus is and is useful to the country, how much it creates work, employment, economies of scale and investments, but it happens at 4 or 5 o'clock in the morning we are alone to defend this measure, trying to take it home. This is the way we're working. We do this to defend everyone, without any problem, because we have as the only beacon the common good. [[Applause]] Another example that comes to mind is that the Movimento 5 Stars is the only political force that defends those in poverty, even momentarily for the reasons caused by the Covid, that have accentuated the difficulties of the people, that today are no longer alone, because there is the income of citizenship and in this budget law we have defended it. Today the country, thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, has a social protection network and happens to have protected it we are. [[Applause]] We have also protected it from the so-called Robin Hood of the poor, who want to move the money of citizenship income and want to bring it to other poor. This does not make sense: these people must be helped and we have, also for the increase of the bills, which - I would like to remind you - are very high, because they are the result of the wrong policies of this country that has continued to bind to the fossil sources. Someone else here in this House is dreaming and talking about nuclear power. We hear it all the time, every day. I tell these people to be promoters of a referendum, to get the full powers of the citizens and to come back here and talk about nuclear power. There are many initiatives that have been carried out: from exemption from the Public Space and Area Employment Tax (TOSAP), or from the Public Space and Area Employment Canon (COSAP) to animal protection, school measures or fibromyalgia. There are so many measures. I would like to talk briefly about an amendment on which I have worked, which in 2022 will finance a fund of 600,000 euros for the organization and internationalization of the Giro d'Italia youth under 23. They are precious resources, which will support a very important sporting event dedicated to young people, followed internationally, but that can show the beauty and charm of our country to the whole world. It is an event dedicated to youth sports, to young people, who for two years really fought with us in this pandemic. There is a great difficulty in organizing these national events that bring wealth and give a sports, cultural and tourist contribution to our territory, because they show how useful our countries, our hinterland and our connections between them are. It is an event that, with its coloured caravan, will touch many Regions of our country, from North to South and is an opportunity to enhance the Made in Italy through a sport that fascinates the young people who practice it. I also thank Minister Di Maio for supporting me in the realization of this event and this amendment, which will certainly be a strong driving force for the economy of scale, which is created when such events are realized. However, there would be so many amendments to talk about, on which we have worked. The collective interest will always be the beacon of the Movimento 5 Stars, regardless of the electoral consensus. We will never find amendments on a swimming pool, on a road, on a promenade, on hiring staff or on a sports field, because our only goal is the common good. We must always remember this, because we respond to all citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u13	Mr President, Senators and fellow Senators, representatives of the Government, since the birth of this Government, we have often been accused, as a Parliamentary Group of the Brothers of Italy, of unnecessarily opposing an authoritative Executive, born with the aim of ferrying Italy out of the ford where the previous Governments had brought it. However, it is always right to remember that it is good that there is an opposition in this House today, not only for Parliament, but also for the whole country, which can boast a group of representatives who, with a critical but constructive sense, are today watching over the work of a government that does not stop not convincing us. Ladies and gentlemen, I am saying this because, as our national President, Giorgia Meloni, has said, today we are in this House making a serious, lucid and patriotic opposition, which does not just vote for or against your proposals, but rather wants to make our voices and arguments heard. Despite the good intentions of the parliamentarians of the Brothers of Italy, however, we are discussing a fundamental prerogative of Parliament, the budget law, with very, too narrow timing, without a significant possibility of maneuvering. This is the result of a precise attitude of the Commission towards the legislative power, all too often put under check by the Government through the vote of confidence, despite the opposition there are only us. In fact, the indication of Palazzo Chigi seems to go beyond Parliament's prerogatives even by distorting parliamentary democracy. We, however, have the task, entrusted to us by Italians and Italians, to make our voice heard as much as possible. As Senator Rauti pointed out yesterday, Brothers of Italy tabled 700 amendments, without claiming that they were all adopted. As the honourable Member herself points out, however, we had to come up against a rubber wall, which refused any proposal from our benches. Today we are here, Mr President, to vote for a maneuver which we do not believe to be the best for us Italians, those Italians themselves, I do not have to be the one to remember, that still today they have not overcome the atrocious damage we have inherited from a pandemic that still grabs us. It is a social, but certainly also an economic, very important, damage which must be curbed - it must be done - by means of a targeted social and economic policy. Among the most affected were the entrepreneurs, small and large, of any sector. It is sad to note that this government, too shortsighted, has never implemented a functional aid plan as we of Brothers of Italy have been asking for for a long time. The government itself, however, with this fiscal manoeuvre has been concerned to find a huge amount of public money to finance again one of the most bankrupt interventions of economic policy in republican history, that is, the income of citizenship, an instrument of useless aid, indeed harmful, that has proved ineffective on many occasions. On this issue too, we have often been attacked, but the truth is that the income of citizenship, as has been said several times in this House, only serves to keep people who are not unable to work due to bad luck or contingency. This instrument serves only those who do not want to produce wealth for the community, leaving again in a corner those who really seek a job and need it, without considering the many cases - the news is full - in which members of organized crime have turned out to be recipients of income or foreign citizens, who arrived in Italy only once, have left with the money intended for Italian citizens. Of course, we are aware of and recognize that there is a category of citizens, men and women, who must be helped, protected and gradually placed and controlled in the world of work, and it is even more distressing to see that even with such public money they have not found employment in those people. In fact, for people with disabilities - data at hand - income was also bankrupt. We believe that public money must be invested in companies, i.e. those who create wealth, so that citizens can benefit from it in the form of wages and salaries. Instead, because of the obvious fault of a political deployment and its blindness, the State cannot make the best use of its funds. This money could be used in a better way, for example in the credit to be paid to Italian companies, which are not only at a time of economic suffering, but are also abandoned by the State and by politics. [[Applause]] It is our duty, therefore, to find a solution to try at least to stem the serious loss from the economic point of view, also because in a period of economic crisis not only, of course, would not benefit the nation, but, considering the context - now historical, now geopolitical - would create a huge advantage towards competition from other economically aggressive states such as China. Unfortunately, today we are in this House looking at a budget maneuver with shameful delay away from the needs of the Italian productive fabric and close to the passive one. On the contrary, we are always on the side of those who choose to do business and it is not just a slogan, because it is peaceful that companies are the engine of the country and without this engine the country does not move. However, we like to talk about concrete things and as an entrepreneur, as well as as as a citizen who cares about the fate of our companies, excellences in many sectors, I would like to stress that public support for companies, which incidentally also had to be secured through bank financing entirely guaranteed by the State, according to the emergency regulations, has proved defective and not able to support all small and medium-sized enterprises in financial difficulties. It is superfluous and absolutely presumptuous to want to explain in this House the importance of the measure and, above all, the extent of the damage caused by its failure to implement it. The consequence has been the closure of many businesses and therefore citizens without employment and without means of support to provide for their own needs and those of families. If having hundreds of thousands of citizens struggling to arrive at the end of the month and to bring bread to the table is not a problem for this Executive, it must also be counted that the companies that have closed their doors are largely operating in sectors strategically fundamental for Italy, such as tourism, trade and catering. With regard to catering, it is appropriate and necessary to mention the poor treatment given to restaurateurs during the pandemic, which, despite having spent thousands of euros to comply with the current rules and to put their premises in safety, have found themselves several times having to lower the screen. For this reason, there is the need and the extreme urgency of putting in place a procedure in favour of the many and too many business activities in distress, also considering - it is not a secondary fact - the enormous tax revenues that companies pay in the state coffers, as well as the disproportionate increases in energy costs, which have undermined the stability of companies perfectly in order and functioning in the current year and which are a threat to the maintenance of our economic fabric in 2022. Mr President, even as an entrepreneur, I believe that the state is not doing enough to protect those who really put themselves at risk and create jobs. This situation is unacceptable to me, to the party I represent, and above all to the citizens who gave soul and body during the pandemic to keep a company abandoned by the state active and to allow its workers to live a life in conditions as appropriate as politics must be able to guarantee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u15	Mr President, I will certainly be in time because, as you said, Holy Christmas is up and we are among the lucky people who can celebrate it. Who knows if the new generations will succeed in celebrating it, given the progressive attack of the oligarchic elites who would like to suppress it even, as we have seen in the European Union! I shall try to get to the very heart of this matter immediately, as the subject of the amendment rejected by this majority on licences has already been addressed. We have said several times, even in this House, that it does not seem normal for us to have a driving licence for trucks in Italy to cost EUR 2,500 and in the United Kingdom 250. We discussed this in the Commission; we tried to urge the Undersecretary, the Minister and the Commissioners. To the damage was added the mockery, because the salaries for professional drivers in Italy are among the lowest. We do not even get to 30,000 gross euros, compared with what we earn in other European nations. The cost of training clearly penalizes very much Italian workers. It was therefore necessary to guarantee economic support for starting them into the world of work. We are talking about the introduction of young people into the world of work, the big job problem and then the state turns to the other side. We will continue to repeat it: according to us, in Italy it costs too much to take a driver's license to become a driver. It takes too long. In Italy the course of studies reaches seven months, while in the United Kingdom it is two months. In Eastern Europe, with a couple of months, the title that allows young people to be introduced into the world of work in this sector is achieved. The government thinks they've solved this with the driver's license bonus. We have asked to extend the audience of those who could take advantage of this possibility to other categories of drivers and other types of drivers, but the amendment has been resoundingly rejected. It is therefore clear that I am here, on behalf of the whole of the Group of the Brothers of Italy, to express our disappointment and disappointment, a criticism unfortunately hard, with the few means available to us, for the insensitivity of a small amendment that would save thousands of jobs and allow thousands of young people to be in line with what is happening in the rest of Europe. Compared to this dramatic lack of drivers, we felt once again to answer no. Have you wondered what the consequence is? Italian companies will continue to hire drivers who come from Eastern Europe, because there the driver's license is taken in four and four eight, with a ridiculous cost. All this is no longer acceptable; we denounced him, we fought, we tried, even with the weapons of diplomacy, to make this Government reflect. The result is what I am saying: you have remained deaf to this requirement of the Nation (it is not our requirement). I am here - and I have concluded - to represent all my indignation and disappointment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr President, for agreeing to the shift in my speech and to the content. We're in front of things we've never seen. We've seen a lot of them, especially in the last few years, but here we're really way out of line. On Monday, December 20, voting in the Senate Budget Committee had not yet begun, which is the first of the two chambers to examine this measure. Nothing similar had ever been seen, even with the Count Governments, who had also compressed the times and changed the cards at the last moment, with a fake reading, which had however been decent and presentable; in the Government Count 2 an amendment was presented at the last moment that changed everything (the 2,4 became the 2.04), all those who were in opposition complained about that Government and even within the same majorities there were those who admitted that this was not the system. Well, here we have far exceeded all the worst records, even in recent years. I remember that, until not many years ago, only trusting financial law was seen as an extremely questionable thing, as a critical act, because it compresses Parliament's ability to express itself. But here's more than compressed! We started very badly, twenty-one days late compared to a state law. The state asks citizens to comply with their own laws, with fines and superfines; if you take a fine wrongly, in fact very often you have no way of defending yourself. Well, the state, at the most important moment of the year from the financial point of view, but also from the entire political line of the government, does not respect the law. The law says that the draft budget law must be submitted to the Chambers by 20 October, but the State presents it cheerfully on 11 November, also days and days after having said that it had decided. Even the Council of Ministers, which is a properly non-public body (the meetings of the Council of Ministers are not public, they cannot be seen or listened to and there are no minutes, as is right and appropriate), has actually approved something that has then been modified in some office, in some hallway, in some subscale, perhaps outside Parliament, first listening to the needs of some powerful well outside the institutions. If this has happened in the Council of Ministers, let alone in Parliament. Parliament was completely ignored and had the privilege of starting voting - although everything had already been decided before - on Monday evening, that is, two days ago, spending the nights. I wonder how serious work can be done in this way. In essence, the draft budget law denounces all the problems of an extremely varied and diverse majority as lines, as needs, so compromises are made which, at best, are half measures, but sometimes lacked measures. My colleagues in the Fratelli d'Italia Group have presented a series of proposals which have been presented and which have not been answered: in some cases they have not received a no for a precise reason; indeed, in most cases, such as that just explained by Mr Ruspandini on the question of the cost of driving licences, the proposals have simply been ignored. Those proposals, however, are not personal facts of this or that senator, this or that Group; they are the problems of Italy. That is why there is a Parliament, and it is not only in our country, but also in others. We need a Parliament so that, in front of everyone, there are votes, yes and no, and possibly, when the government says no, it should also explain it. Until a few years ago, the speakers were not only readers of the Government's opinions, either in favour or against - for that reason there would be no need for a rapporteur - but often gave explanations, think a little, especially of the contrary opinions because if an amendment is accepted who presents it knows the reason for it. Well, in this case we have none of this. Where is the power if it is not in Parliament? In some countries which are outside Parliament: at best, by far the best, in negotiations between parties; in other cases it is in potencies which have nothing to do with popular consensus, but sometimes have a strong power that they exercise in various ways. For example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, with its authoritative representatives in the Commission, had to say a series of nos - of course - to so many proposals which, as is normal for a draft budget law, demanded the use of money. Therefore, not because it is expensive; not because it costs EUR 100,000; not because it costs EUR 5 million; not because it costs EUR 100 million. However, yesterday afternoon, in the Finance Committee, after years of questions on this subject, we were finally able to hear a representative of the Ministry of Economics and Finance talking about the Autostrade Aspi affair, where the Government, without giving it a look, but above all without strictly informing Parliament, despite the numerous questions of representatives of both the majority and the opposition, is giving - I should point it out - 7.5 billion to the poor Benetton with Atlantia [[Applause]] Yes, those poor Benettons who have so well managed the Italian heritage highways that they have been paid for decades with motorway charges. They broke down the Morandi Bridge or we say that under their management the Morandi Bridge collapsed; the judiciary took very clear measures, the state lawyer said that there were extremes for the resolution for failure by the dealer. Well, the Government has decided to give up the default resolution and has also decided to renounce the application of the rule that has no problem, because it said that there might be legal problems. In other words, he doesn't trust justice. The government knows that it could say: Dear Lords, your concession is closed because you have failed to fulfil your duties.The State's attorney told him that he can do so, but the Government does not do so because it says that, perhaps, in court they wrong him. Does this mean that the Government has no confidence in the judiciary? From this comes the second move of the Government, which is giving up the right of withdrawal provided for by the convention approved in Parliament in 2007, which grants to each of the parties, in particular to the concessionaire State, owner of the infrastructure, including the highways managed by the private concessionaires, the possibility to withdraw at any time from the contract, paying certain sums on certain parameters that would in this case be 13.8 billion. Well, the government is making a deal, led by Cassa deposits and loans, to give to Atlantia, that is Mr Benetton with the other very respectable shareholders of Atlantia, the beauty of 7.5 billion more, at least. This is assuming that the courts are wrong from A to Z to the government, saying how well the Benettons have done, how well maintenance has done and that the Morandi bridge has collapsed who knows why. So, what does the government say no to the proposal to raise disability pensions, which perhaps costs a few hundred million? He can say no to cutting taxes on the companies he hires and on our proposal "more hire less pay," which would cost perhaps a few hundred million, when then they find, without saying anything to Parliament, 7.5 billion to give to those who collapsed the Morandi bridge [[Applause]] , which caused forty-three deaths, damaged the prestige of Italy and disemboweled a city? Since trust will come, it is clear that we cannot trust a government that behaves in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u19	Mr President, I will probably take even less than the time allowed for me, although the subject deserves a great deal of attention from the Undersecretary of the MEF here and from the whole Government. Mr Undersecretary, this is a matter of justice - it is nothing else - so that the same problems can be answered by the Government in the same way. During the tabling of the amendments, I tabled Amendment 32.1 with my own signature and many other Sardinian and non-Sardinian senators, which was transformed during the examination into Amendment 32.1- bis, from which my signature disappeared but I was pleased to see that there was a large subscription of the Senators of the League. The problem has two names: Alitalia on the one hand, Air Italy on the other. The first is a company that has gone into crisis and for which has been ensured, by the Government during the handling in the Commission of the maneuver, a continuation of the regime of social shock absorbers and in any case of support for 2022 and 2023. This is true with regard to Alitalia, a private and non-public company, even if there is a mix between public and private that we cannot understand the exact scope, i.e. whether to catalogue it as a public or as a private company. The other company is Air Italy: the interest of the company ceases, which would intend not to continue with the business, for any misunderstandings or termination of interest between Qatar and the consortium Costa Smeralda (i.e. Aga Khan). Well, for these workers there is no form of support, not even perhaps to arrive at the end of the year and nothing for 2022. This is a problem of justice. [[Applause]] : on equal terms, equal treatment should be provided. With this intervention I ask you, Mr Undersecretary, who represents the Government, an act of direction, which can also be included in the measure one thousand extensions of tomorrow (tomorrow you have the meeting of the Council of Ministers on the thousand extensions), concerning the workers of Air Italy, that is more than 1,300 people - about 1,300 families - who would remain without any support until the end of the year and for the year to come. I say this because it really pushes me a feeling of seeking justice: it is not conceivable that there are different solutions to identical problems. I don't talk and I haven't talked about what's good about maneuvering and what's less good. On the other hand, I am talking about a problem of justice, and I am asking on behalf of the Sardinian senators and not only of the Lombard senators and not only of them; I am asking for it precisely to be said that the Government you represent, Mr Undersecretary, is doing the right thing to remedy this situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u20	Senator Totaro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group can only bear witness, through the speeches of its senators, to the disappointment of what has unfortunately occurred in bringing the draft budget law to this House at first reading. It is a problem that has been repeated for some time, even under other governments, that of bringing the measure to the House at the last moment, but in this case every record has been beaten. Mr Malan, who spoke before me for our Group, said this earlier: he has surpassed what has been done by the governments of the past years. This says a lot about how, for us senators, it is possible to intervene for the benefit of Italian citizens through our work and our amendments to the draft budget law. Once it was also a problem to put trust, because it was almost scandalous to put trust in the budget law and great controversy arose. It has now become customary to come to the examination of the draft budget law and put trust. In fact, we have a House which deals with the measure in the Commission (not in this House, let us be frank) and another House which, at alternating stages, takes note of it year after year and, through trust, only votes yes or no to the measure. It is an unacceptable attitude, it is something that needs to be changed, because otherwise it is happening - we see it with our own eyes - a sort of semi-presidency, without having it in the Constitution. There has been a great deal of talk lately about this issue, but I want to say that it exists in fact, just as in fact there is only the legislative activity of a House. We are not talking about the urgent decree: the legislative decrees that are brought to this House are usually adopted through trust. The role of the Chambers, of Parliament and of bicameralism in this way does not simply leave to be desired, but fails. I put the problem to the Presidency, the Government and other Members of Parliament, because I think that from the point of view of those who sit in Parliament it is problematic to bring their own contribution and ideas to improve certain measures. That's not what should happen. I would not go so far as to say what a colleague of ours said a few years ago, which I had the honour to know in this House and which is now gone, but he was also President of the Republic, Francesco Cossiga: he argued that all the budgetary laws - perhaps President Calderoli will remember, when he intervened as a senator for life in this House - were false; he joked a bit, he was telling the truth a bit. In fact, we do not have the opportunity to know fully how much we are going to vote; neither do you, colleagues in the majority, who are going to vote in favour of the measure. At least we will vote against it and we can say that we do not approve of something that we do not know exactly 100%. Everyone should say that, because that is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. None of us is fully aware of the budget law, as it should be. Unfortunately, it is noted that we are voting yes or no, and tomorrow night or 24 December the draft law will be taken to the House, where there will be no discussion of the measure in the Commission and will be finally approved. This is frankly unacceptable; as an opposition, we want to denounce it forcefully. It was supposed to be the government of the best, the government that would do something different from the others. Instead, we denounce that it is even the government of the worst because it does worse than other governments. When I come to some of the issues in the budget law, I would like to stress, for example, the appropriations for the forces of order. Brothers of Italy had a constructive attitude and we certainly do not get to vote on the budget maneuver the last few days and the last hours because of the opposition, which has tabled so many amendments or made obstructionism. We must tell the Italian citizens who are watching us and who are watching us. We come to this because there are cross vetoes within the majority, tips that are given to this and to that other and continuous diatribes within the majority, which does not agree. We, however, as Brothers of Italy and as opposition, have led to the provision of improved and positive amendments. We consider the government's funding for the law enforcement agencies to be highly inadequate. In fact, the attention to them must be primary in our country, because security is not only a topic that is spoken of in the electoral campaign to say that we are all for security; we would miss someone saying then that it is for insecurity or crime. In fact, however, when Parliament, through budgetary manoeuvre, does not help the law enforcement forces as it should, we feel that we are strongly denouncing it in this House. As regards, for example, recruitment in the Forces of Order, we have seen the incredible attitude of the Democratic Party which, through its Parent Company, has tabled an amendment on the possible detention of agents for a period of two years beyond the legal limits. Instead of going in the direction of new recruitments, we stabilize who is already there, without understanding the situation and remaining completely distant from the reality and the problems that go through the Forces of Order. I am referring to the fact that staff are becoming increasingly older and unable to carry out their duties on the street. At least listen to the law enforcement and police unions telling you that you are going in the opposite direction to the security of the citizen. In fact, it becomes difficult for older people to put public order in the streets. On the other hand, the PD amendment has gone in this direction, increasing the number of years necessary for the forces of order to retire, not understanding that instead we must allocate money - as has been done in part, but in our opinion insufficient - for the increase of staff. As for the State Police in the next ten years we will have a reduction of 10,000 units. Not to mention the prison police, a very difficult and very important subject. A few months ago we had a meeting and a debate with Minister Cartabia, who spoke to us in this House about the problems relating to prisons. He told us about the lack of staff, even in that case an elderly staff. In the next few years, 30,000 prison police officers will retire. I remember operating inside the penitentiaries is a very exhausting job. In fact, those who do that work very often are prisoners like the others, because they spend so many years in difficult conditions, in which it is difficult to be in contact with the social emergencies that arise in that area. In all this it would have been important for the government to allocate as much money as possible for recruitment. Even as far as the prison police are concerned, there are even young people who have competed both as regards the personnel who come from the world of the Armed Forces and as regards people who have done civil contests and are waiting for the recruitments that are not done instead. I want to hope that action will be taken and that the money allocated will be sufficient for recruitment, even if I doubt that it can be. We at the Brothers of Italy have tabled an amendment, at my first signature, on the question that calls for the recruitment of children in the prison police. I hope that the request can be received by the Government and that we can go in that direction. We - I repeat - have proposed these amendments with constructive and proactive intent, in the interests of the Italian people. Security is not an issue to be dealt with only in the election campaign. We always believe in security. We cannot be shocked when the serious situation happens or when the policeman is attacked or when someone does something on the street and is not properly stopped; Parliament must take action in fact, ensuring security for the citizens and giving the law enforcement forces the opportunity to do their best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u22	Senator Richetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u23	Mr President, I will not consider any method. I will refrain from commenting on the aspects on which many Members have spoken on the parliamentary process, not least because they would risk being too generous considerations and I think that the delicate phase that the country is going through, both from a social point of view, in the contrast to the pandemic, and on the economic front, does not leave any of us room for controversy. However, let me say, Mr President, that in this crucial step the budgetary manoeuvre, in our view, could and should have been more courageous and more coherent. I say this as a supporter of this draft budget law and as a member of the majority. It could have been more courageous and more coherent, starting precisely from the remodulation of the Irpef and the modifications that we bring to it. There is no category in the country that today does not denounce the need to reduce taxation: cutting and lowering taxes finds a clear consensus among citizens. But there is an urgency, indeed an emergency in this country. In politics, when there are emergencies, these become priorities of the action of the Government and Parliament in the very first fight. The emergency in this country is called youth work: there is no other question, from the point of view of reducing taxes, that comes before reducing an unacceptable disparity, as Carlo Calenda recently pointed out publicly, taking back the data of Istat, which I want to remind this Assembly as a starting point. The average annual income of Italians is 21,965 euros; the average income of under 30 is 15,128 euros; the average income of under 25 is 9,935 euros. A young man working in Italy earns less than half of the average income. Well, more courage and more coherence would have meant at least discussing the amendment that we tabled as Mixed-+Europe-Action. Mr President, if 5.5 of those 8 billion for the reduction of the Irpef had gone to the reduction of the Irpef of the under 25 and under 30 we would have reset the Irpef on the under 25 and halved the under 30 by 50%. I would like to focus on this aspect, because we cannot continue with the rhetoric of the youth issue, of which we fill the party appointments, of each party, and then, when it is time, having the opportunity to put in place a concrete measure, do not do so. To continue with this approach on the modification of taxes, of the Irpef and of the taxation in general, by filing a bit of echelons and rates, does nothing but strengthen the hateful injustice that Don Milani, in the letters to the teacher, defines the equal parts between unequal: the unequal today are a generation that has access to income simply unbearable. Speaking of a teacher, Mr President, allow me to make a very quick point on the subject of school. The Government has made an important effort in this budgetary manoeuvre, providing for one of the most significant allocations in recent years for the teachers' fund. It is now up to political forces to reason on the criteria with which to use this fund, because they cannot continue the continuous ideological confrontation between those who use the teacher's assessment as a clava against a category and those who believe that the distribution by rain of resources can still be a current way of proceeding. It is the teachers who, in the vast majority, are women and men who carry out their work with generosity and competence and to whom - I say this in the light of what is read in the budget maneuver - we should apply not only the principles of care and dedication, but, for example, that of achieving important objectives such as combating school leaving and dispersal. Nothing is linked to these aspects in terms of economic recognition. In Italy in 2020 543,000 children dropped out of school. These are dramatic percentages, which place us in fourth place, in negative terms, in Europe. I say this because this House will have a central role on the issues of training, teaching and acquisition of competences. I am thinking of the coming weeks when we are discussing the reform of the Higher Technical Institutes and the changes coming from the Chamber of Deputies. I hope that there will not be a retreat on a strategic level of preparation of our young people compared to what the House has done and that the value of an experience that today has returned not only training and competence to the children, but also important job opportunities. I shall conclude with a note on justice, which will be brief in order to respect the time available to me. With my colleague Costa, in the House, and my colleague Cucca, in the Senate, in recent months we have worked very hard after the establishment of the fund for the legal expenses of the absolved defendants, which - in my opinion - is a great achievement in terms of civilization. Once again, it is a fund that has been set up but not yet funded. Setting up funds and not putting money in it is not really the best way to give answers to the citizens and ensure credibility for the institutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u25	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, I believe that the profound sense of political action is manifested in two forms: to guide the nation towards a certain idea of the future, development and well-being and to support those who fail to take the step towards the indicated goal. It is useless to deny that in this exceptional phase, in the midst of the system crisis that we are experiencing, the first task is carried out in almost exclusive form by the President of the Council Mario Draghi and his Government. Parliament is still - and it is no small matter - fulfilling the second task, in the often narrow margins left by the Government. Each of us in this House, because of personal sensitivity, political orientation and territorial origin, has presented to the budgetary maneuver the amendments that he considered essential. I have identified mainly two areas of action in my amending work. The first is to try to effectively and concretely support the needs of the citizens of Marche and the other three regions upset by the earthquake of 2016, knowing that, due to a lack of the public system as a whole, their needs have not yet been met. The second concerns the state of publishing, which is the world from which I come and not only for this reason I feel it is necessary to I'll take care of it. Other colleagues have spoken and will talk about the events related to the earthquake, so I will concentrate my brief speech on the subject of publishing. I begin by regretting that several of the amendments I have tabled have not been transposed, they have not been given the green light of the Ministry of Economic Affairs; in particular, one of the amendments aimed at forfecting the copies made. It would have been a useful measure not so much for publishers, but for newsstands, a category in great suffering, as we know. When we talk about information, in fact, we only think of journalists, who of course are a minority part of the great information chain, which is made up of polygraphs, employees, distributors, printers, paper producers, newsagents and so on. I am not hiding or deceiving myself because, even if all the amendments I tabled were accepted, the situation in this sector would not have changed radically. In fact, the situation is literally catastrophic: over 60 percent of sales revenues have been lost in the last fifteen years, but above all more than 80 percent of advertising revenues. To this state of affairs it is added that production costs are growing dramatically: just to give a single element of reflection, only in the last year the cost of cellulose has increased by 70 percent. We are talking about a supply chain that employs 90,000 people in total. It is not, however, a question of supporting an industrial sector in crisis, but of supporting the quality of our democracy by intervening with public resources. Protecting publishing means protecting and strengthening the citizens' right to be properly informed, strengthening and giving them tools to understand reality and to orient themselves in a world that is more than ever uncomfortable, has lost its compass (the hierarchies of the news have been lost, the sense of reality has been lost) and to allow them to exercise their right to vote with cognition of cause. Knowing to deliberate said Luigi Einaudi and of course told the truth. Joseph Stiglitz, Nobel laureate for the economy, is very popular especially among the ranks of that Movimento 5 Star where still today there are those who have understood and still intend to starve to death, literally hungry publishers and journalists, evidently wanting to serve the interests of the giants of the web. Well, Stiglitz said that information is a public good and as a public good it needs public support. It is not a habit, it is not a whim, it is not rhetoric; it is what all the civilized countries of the world do. A ten-year-old research by Oxford University said that Italy is the last country that actively supports its national publishing; the latest data from the World Bank unfortunately confirm this trend. The country that most is spent and spends on publishing is Denmark with 9.59 euros per inhabitant, in the queue there is Italy with 1.49 euros: almost 10 euros per citizen Denmark, less than 1.5 euros per citizen Italy. France, of course, does much more than we do, because the French (and not just them) understand the social and political value of professional information. The last report of the Authority for Communications Guarantees (Agcom), that of the current year, states that only 17% of Italians are informed by reading the newspapers, over 60% are watered to the thousand sources of the web and this could also be good, because the world changes, the digital revolution has changed the world, changes habits, some professions disappear, others are born, also changes the way to inform the citizens, if not that those sources are mainly "poisoned." I give you some facts that perhaps, married and read in logical sequence, make a reasoning: Boston's Massachusetts institution of technology (MIT) states that on social media in general and on Twitter in particular false news spreads six times faster than real news. The research of the American Pew research center tells us that, never as today, public opinion, citizens are uninformed, in the sense that they do not have the information, do not know the facts and, when they know the facts, are not able to contextualize them, understand the meaning and understand the scope. Yet, not as today does public opinion feel that it is overinformed. OECD Pisa reports tell us that our children, our grandchildren, when they inform themselves by looking at a website, cannot distinguish between advertising content and information, a news. They do not distinguish between advertising and news, between theoretically journalistic and obviously advertising. American research says that reading on paper impresses enormously more in memory and greatly stimulates thought than reading on digital devices, even more naturally than using the same concepts through a video. If we have at heart, not the amount of information, but the quality of information, these data say that digital, obviously, is not a worthy substitute for printed paper and that social media are not a worthy substitute for newspapers. Now, I know the seriousness and dedication of the undersecretary to publishing Giuseppe Moles and I greatly appreciated the fact that an extraordinary fund for publishing has been included in the folds of this budget law. I have no doubt that the Government will implement in the best possible way the plan to which the entire information chain is working and that it will be able to include it adequately in the PNRR, in order to allow this sector to adapt to change and digital transition. Of course, it will then be the journalists and publishers who have to prove themselves up to this task, a task that, never as today, in an era of great chaos, of great confusion, that has lost every authorising principle, is not excessive to define historical. Such a task must be carried out with a sense of personal honour and above all with a sense of national responsibility. In these days, especially in the light of what the President of the Republic said, Sergio Mattarella, two days ago, about the diseased relationship between media and no vax, I was very impressed to learn the following. The main envoys of the great warheads following the Italian troops engaged in the war of Libya, we were in 1911, had decided, alone, talking to each other, to silence or in any case to weaken the news of an epidemic of cholera that had hit our troops. They did so, of course, so as not to depress the mood of the fighters at the front and the fellow citizens at home. I leave you with this reflection. I'm not adding anything. A reflection from this point of view would be appropriate, certainly not in a Parliamentary Assembly but among the ranks of the category to which I belonged. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u26	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretaries, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues from the 5th Commission for their efforts over the last few weeks, for their tireless and tireless work. But if I were to ask you now what are the most precious things in your life, I think I can speculate, without fear of being denied: the family, our loved ones and health. [[Applause]] In the moments when health fails, we want above all two things: first, to be well cared for and then to have next to us the people we love, our loved ones. Therefore, as institutions we have a duty to guarantee access to care and the freeness of care. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u28	Colleagues, please, we're not at the bar. All right, we have to vote on the timetable, but we are in general discussion and I ask you for a minimum of respect for those who speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u29	FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. I was saying that, as institutions, we have a duty to guarantee access to the care and the gratuitousness of the care to all citizens, controlling the expenditure and the use of resources. Every single cent, in fact, must be used correctly and this can only be done with a system of tracking expenditure that guarantees maximum effectiveness and accountability. Are you really convinced that this has happened in the last two years? If - on the one hand - the health fund has increased, perhaps - on the other - checks on expenditure and employment should be increased. Among other things - I do not know if you have noticed - but, despite the increase of the fund, the lists of specialist visits are extended, the screenings are not done and the interventions are postponed, with an unimaginable damage for those in need. In this budget law, fortunately, amending proposals have been adopted across the board by all political forces in the area of health: I would like to recall the proposal on retinal diseases, the proposal on the register for multiple sclerosis and many others that have seen all party forces working in the same direction. In fact, there is not only Covid, but there are all the other pathologies - not only oncology - that do not stop and it is no longer possible to procrastinate system interventions. However, more could and had to be done. We need real and urgent answers. Mr President, the people who will be treated late will see their quality of life compromised and, if the approach is not changed, the social and economic costs will be unacceptable and will all weigh on future generations. On a 30 billion maneuver Parliament was given the opportunity to affect about 600 million, basically crumbs. Then there was the trap of the proposed amendments, so those which are too expensive must be dismissed. There is therefore a need for serious reflection, because in a parliamentary Republic the requests of the parliamentarians are those of the Italians, while in recent years we have been treated as acefali, called to ratify decisions already taken. [[Applause]] Speaking of health, Mr President, I would like to focus on an amendment which has not been considered, neither in the tax decree nor in the budget law, certainly not out of demerit of colleagues, but because it involves costs. To date, those who are immobilized in bed and need non-specialist personnel for their daily needs, for drinking or eating, cannot deduct the relevant amounts incurred. As a League we have asked that, at least for those who have a disability between 80 and 100 percent, these amounts should be deductible, but I must say that the Tartar Desert is perhaps more populated in terms of answers than we have had in this budget law. It is a cost-effective amendment, of course. But tell me, if you were stuck in bed from the neck down, what would you expect from the institutions? It has been two years since our agenda was adopted and the government committed itself to solving the problem, but to date all of these promises have proved to be a sailor. Instead, an amendment of 5 million for the sterilization of wild boars was adopted. Are we really sure that sterilization of these mammals is a priority? [[Applause]] And above all, ladies and gentlemen, if this is a priority for Parliament, are we really sure that, as it was adopted, this is the most effective measure? Another theme is citizenship income, which has been funded in this budget law for 8.4 billion overall, despite the continuous daily scams that fill the chronicles. It is certainly important to help those who suffer, who are more unlucky, who are going through a difficult time, but why not use those resources for companies in crisis and to create jobs? [[Applause]] Mr President, we all know that finding work in the Mezzogiorno is difficult, but President Draghi in this House said that 40% of the resources will go to the South. There is talk of 82 billion, plus the resources of the React-EU, as well as the 5 billion that will go largely to labour policies and social inclusion. In addition, the Mezzogiorno will receive a further 60 billion of the structural and development funds. It's an avalanche of money. We as League will ensure that all are used correctly, because we cannot only ask; it is essential to use them well, because those who will have to return them are our children. President, we are a government of national unity. The budget law reflects the different sensitivities and as League we have had an eye on the bills, the Irpef, the IRAP, the superbonus, the social EPA, the disability, that is families, VAT matches and companies, but for other interventions we are very far away. We know that we are a thorn in Parliament's side. Our amendments always have an uphill road. The ministerial offices have difficulty in making our technical relations, but do you really think by these means of making a spite of the League? You do this to the Italian citizens and we, who have always put them first, will continue to propose the themes close to the needs of the people and definitely far from the interests of the palaces where many of you are now at ease. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, government, the geographical, geological and human characteristics of our country make it particularly vulnerable to natural risks, pollution of environmental matrixes, depletion of landscape and biodiversity. The only floods each year average about twenty sacred lives and generate damage for about two and a half billion euros. The effects of climate change are added to the high hydrogeological risk, which makes extreme weather events more intense and frequent. The earthquakes are then like a sword of Damocles that statistically every four or five years violently fall on our many territories with high seismic danger and vulnerability. Only in the last three great earthquakes (L'Aquila, Emilia and Central Italy) have stopped beating 628 hearts and there have been 44 billion damage. In addition, 620,808 landslides, avalanches, coastal erosion, emissions of dangerous gases, 158,000 hectares of forest smoked in the last torrid summer, pollution of water and air. How can we reconcile any sustainable socio-economic development or ecological transition with all these risks that undermine the security of the territory? It is a sacred duty of politics to reverse catastrophic collision routes and direct the nation towards the serene horizons of sustainable and ethically compatible development. A sure opportunity to do this is the budget law by financing monitoring, forecasting, reduction, mitigation and prevention of natural and anthropic risks, large multiplier investments, knowing that preventing - for example - hydrogeological risk costs a quarter of its damage and even a tenth in the case of seismic risk. Take good care: the foundation of prevention is knowledge. I will return to this concept at the end of the speech. This budget law has an important role to play in primary expenditure on environmental protection and the use and management of natural resources. Approximately 9 and a half billion euros are planned for 2022, 59 percent more than was allocated in 2021. Most of the initial resources cover the protection of the area and the climate, research and development for the protection of the environment, protection and rehabilitation of soil and water, protection of biodiversity and landscape. For the reduction of climate emissions, a sustainable mobility fund of around €2 billion is established until 2034; the climate fund of €840 million is established for each year from 2022 to 2026. For the monitoring of air pollution 50 million euros are allocated in 2023, 100 million euros in 2024, 150 million euros in 2025, 200 million euros from 2026 to 2035; these are very important resources. Article 139 finances the total expenditure of €35 billion up to 2036 for interventions related to extraordinary maintenance and adaptation to climate change of regional, provincial and municipal road traffic. The contributions of local authorities to the final and executive design costs relating to the security of the territory are increased. This is a vulnus in Italy. The Court of Auditors reminds us of this every time; in its report of 25 October last, it is well emphasized that a failure is precisely the failure to design these interventions. A fund is planned for the design of the work to restore the efficiency of hydraulic works and river networks. It is refinanced with €200 million, from 2024 to 2029, the fund for structural prevention of seismic risk and for seismic microzoning studies. The large part of the interventions for the protection of the territory requires an in-depth basic knowledge, which modern geological cartography at 50,000 can well provide. But such cartography is not due to an absurd blockage of twenty years of its funding, while all Europe was running and today almost all nations have not only completed it, but are already on the upgrades (on the second, fourth or seventh update). Departed thanks to the 2020 and 2021 budget laws, it has regained great vigour; we expected that even in this budget law there could be the due attention to strengthen investments and make them structural until completion. Too bad that the Government has not grasped the universally recognized usefulness of this basic knowledge tool and has not provided adequate funding. With a clinical metaphor, we could say that we agitate a patient with multiple fractures on the surgical bed without X-rays. Yes, the geological map makes us operate consciously and quickly, saves us and saves our lives. Finally, my personal displeasure over such a lack of government is countered by the satisfaction that the 5 Star Movement, unique and unique [[Applause]] It has been sensible by proposing an amendment which commits EUR 6 million to this end. This underlines in a irrefutable way how the Movimento 5 Stars is attentive to the real needs of the people, to the security of the territory, to the prevention of natural risks and to life. [[Applause]] It would be desirable for the need for basic knowledge for any prevention to become a shared heritage of all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u32	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable by a majority until 11 January. Today, until its conclusion, the general discussion on the draft budget law will continue; the replies of the rapporteurs and the Government will follow. Tomorrow, starting at 9.30 a.m., the decree-law on the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, already approved by the House of Deputies, will be discussed, even if not concluded in the Commission. For the general discussion, two hours and twenty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The amendments to the House will have to be tabled by 4 p.m. today. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting also provides for the continuation of the debate on the draft budget law, which will continue on Friday 24 December. The timetable for this sitting may be anticipated in relation to the progress of the proceedings. The calendar can be integrated with the President's communications, pursuant to Article 126-bis, paragraph 2-a of the Regulation, on the annual law for the market and competition 2021. The Assembly will meet again at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday 11 January with the discussion of ratifications of international agreements drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Conference of the Leaders will be convened on the same day on Tuesday 11 January from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. At 3 p.m., the Board for the Rules of Procedure will meet.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u35	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak on the communications you have just made to this House concerning the request by the Group leader to reverse the agenda for the consideration of the measures we are debating in this House. Mr President, I make yet another appeal, which I fear, however, will fall into the void, with respect to the fact that the opposition is not allowed - I would like to say to the whole of Parliament, but I am speaking for the part of this Parliament that I represent - to examine with science and conscience, according to the principle of einaudiano to know how to deliberate, the texts that are brought to our attention. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan - for the conviction of all, first of which the President of the Council Draghi - is the fundamental topic of the development of Italy in the coming years. Well, the Senate of the Republic, the only opposition force is asked to approve it in a closed box, without reading it, without knowing what is written, without trying at least to amend it for the part where it is amendable, to improve it. We are called to do exactly this, President Calderoli and colleagues, but it seems that no one is interested in what the Senate is doing, what the Senate of the Republic is for. I ask you: what is the use of the role we play? Why are we here, President? Why are we here, ladies and gentlemen, if today, assuming a serious responsibility, you require the Senate to approve a Plan on which the future of Italy depends without even having the chance to read it? Is that normal? [[Applause]] Is that acceptable? Is that the democracy of the best, President? I am ashamed that I cannot reply to my constituents on what you are going to decide in the 5th Commission today. I would remind you, President, that by your will, by your delay, by your inability, the draft budget law was approved yesterday at 4 p.m. in the Budget Committee after 24 hours of debate, and not because of the obstructionism of the Brothers of Italy, which has once again proved irresponsible opposition, but because of your inability, your delays, the obstructionism that the majority has done to the majority itself. We could have kept you locked up for days in that Commission simply by asking to vote on all the amendments, including the hundreds and thousands of your amendments to the maneuver, and instead we decided, out of a sense of responsibility, because we care about this Republic and we care about the state accounts - even if we do not approve them - to allow approval after a night marathon. Your answer, once again arrogant and irresponsible, is to say: dear senators, the PNRR, the 270 billion (or so many) plan, you cannot see it and you cannot discuss it because we have already decided everything; indeed they have decided everything: the Council of Ministers or that part of the Council of Ministers that decides what the PNRR is and the future of our country. And, as at the lowest moments in the history of the institutions, the senators were compensated with a shower of punctual amendments to finance the 7,000 euro measures, as not even in the most remote town council of the country. [[Applause]] This is the Senate of the Republic! If it's okay with you, we're not okay with it anymore, and we're not gonna shut up yet. It is something that is no longer tolerable. We protest with all our strength over the fact that we are not allowed to do our duty as senators. Mr President, our request, once again, is to discuss these issues, which you consider decisive and which you fill your mouths with every occasion in the conferences, on television on the talk shows, after Christmas - whether on 27, 28, 29 or 30 December you decide and I remind you that the House is open - so that you can have a serious debate and try to confront us. You have decided that this will not be the case and our protest will be not to participate in a debate in which we cannot contribute simply because you prevent us from making our contribution. A contribution must be motivated, studied, the result of reflections, of a comparison also within our Group, but all this is impossible and you have decided it. The only responsible opposition in Parliament has a duty to remember this, so we will not participate in a fake debate in a Senate that has renounced its role and we will say so on all occasions. Our only intervention will be on the question of trust and you will force us once again to vote against the measure, because once again you will put your trust in this decree-law. Mr President, I ask you - I know that it is useless - to reconsider and examine our consciences: ask yourselves whether what I have said is true or false, whether it is the result of political partisanism or an objective observation of the political reality of this country. I have concluded and reiterate our request to schedule the examination of the decree-law on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan after Christmas. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u38	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on the other hand, we confirm what you said at the Conference of Leaders and therefore the timetable that you set out. We understand the regret and in any case also the theme that has posed the Group of the Brothers of Italy, because - this we say several times to the Government - also the fact of having faced PNRR and budgetary maneuver at the same time, although dividing them between Chamber and Senate, has severely penalized the work of Parliament and has put in great difficulty the work of the same offices of the Accounting and the Ministry of Economy and Finance [[Applause]] ; offices that have not been put in a position - as we have been told - for too short a time, even to work on the amendments that the political groups had agreed to. We found ourselves for the first time - it is not true, I told a lie because it is not the first time - in the condition of having agreed amendments that have not passed into the budget law because there was no time to work on it: it is something that really does not put our country in great light in front of many other situations. Thanks for the effort of everything that has been done must be done, but it has gone too long on the PNRR and it has been given little time to the senators; indeed, we have been asked to give priority amendments in good time, except then get to the last minute and say that there was no longer time to work on it. Therefore, the Government would have the task of better planning the important measures that come to Parliament, in order to give Parliament itself the opportunity to do Parliament: this is the important element that we stress. Therefore, we understand the complaints that the Brothers of Italy Group has highlighted. It is also true that we know - we have all said, Brothers of Italy understood - the importance of the funds that will come from Europe; which is why, by ending the decree on the PNRR on 5 January, or even having a very close deadline, we need to be responsible and move towards the approval of the measure. The Commission will have all the time today to examine it and tomorrow morning we can very well proceed with its approval, just as we have done for so many other measures, aware - alas - that there will be no possibility - bicameralism has ended in fact, even if it still exists on paper, and we have been saying this for a long time - to make changes, just as our colleagues in the House will have no opportunity to make changes to the draft budget law. I would like to address my fellow Members of the Brothers of Italy on the draft budget law: the distribution and work on the amendments have, however, also satisfied your political side. Maybe that's better to recognize. [[Applause]] Many amendments have passed, including yours, otherwise your attitude in the Budget Commission would not have been as responsible as it was. [[Applause]] So, we all did the job, and we don't come here to teach other people. That must be clear. On the timetable - and I will conclude - we have accepted the Government's invitation: the maxi amendment should arrive at around 6 p.m. on tomorrow's day; then there is the Update Note; the Council of Ministers must meet and it takes some time. However, let us do everything we can as a government, despite the fact that the 24th day is scheduled to be held, so that the time is tight and that Parliament can vote on the budget law overnight between 23 and 24. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u41	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we too in these complicated days, when the text of this rule was decided in the Budget Committee, have, of course, done, in our role as a majority, what our fellow Members of the Brothers of Italy are doing now in their role of opposition. We have asked the government what we are essentially asking from the beginning of this parliamentary term to all the governments that have moved on in this House: we ask that we be able to do our part, to do Parliament and not to passively assist in the passage of rules that change the aspect of our country and the life of the Italians. We tried and the government that is here knows that what we discussed during these days was not trivial. We discussed the method, asking that the government, instead of filling in the maxi amendment of contents that could be placed elsewhere, dilute it and make it more understandable its content, as far as possible, in the text of the budget law; we discussed the merit, all, majority and opposition. I agree with Mr Romeo that the opposition has been very understanding and diligent in carrying out its function of constructive opposition; an opposition which, however, has been confronted with the content, has tabled its amendments and has been pleased with some of them, as it should be. In fact, opposition also represents a part of our country. So, as far as we are concerned, what Mr Ciriani says is not only appropriate, but also proper. Unfortunately, however, I do not know whether the changes that have been made within this House, the structure, the number of senators, the number of Members, the structure of the parliamentary body, will be sufficient to make it more relevant or perhaps make it even more irrelevant than it is now. [[Applause]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what we have to ask ourselves. What has been done in this parliamentary term, in these years, in these hours, in these days and will be done in the next few hours, ladies and gentlemen, depends not on the number of Members and their presence, but on the importance of Parliament. [[Applause]] , since it is able to make itself significant in the process of formation of the law. It is a task that all of us, as a majority and opposition, must assume, because we must all respond to what we do here to our constituents. Of course, I would never allow myself to teach anyone lessons. It is a fact that we do for our part. But believe me - the government is our witness - it was not easy for us to go through a process of discussion and drafting a budget law that very often made us make methodological and contentistic sacrifices. [[Applause]] However, we have done our part, as it is necessary to do at a time when, once again, the health and economic emergency have not ended, and it is not over, but rather has implemented, the social emergency. That is our position, Mr President, and that is why, apart from any hypocrisy, we in Forza Italia ask, and we have thought about it, how much it would shift the discussion of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan from tomorrow to after Christmas, since it will have to be approved on December 31 and since we are all aware that we cannot change it. This, however, believes and holds to the pathology I was talking about before: not the presence, but the portance of the parliamentary organ. It is a problem that does not matter the numbers and that we will all face together as the ruling class of the country. All this, in order not to make it too long, President, sharing the perplexities, but assuming all the responsibilities, as Forza Italia has always done since the beginning of the parliamentary term, we ask that the timetable decided at the Conference of the Leaders be confirmed, albeit by a majority. We hope that, during the short debate, but that it will be possible and important, of tomorrow's National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the opposition will also be present. And we ask that the Note of variation to the budget law be presented to the House at a reasonable time, in order to prevent what has been rushed, what has been a tear, which we have in some way curled up, from becoming an even deeper tear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u42	I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senator Ciriani, to postpone the discussion of the Decree-Law on the PNRR to the day of 27 December and to follow. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u43	Mr President, members of the Government, my fellow Senators, I shall speak about agriculture in my speech and I will do so because, unfortunately, little has been said about it in the budgetary manoeuvre, very little compared to a sector that is not only primary by definition but fundamental to our economy, where agriculture and agri-food account for a quarter of our GDP. Mr Patuanelli, to whom all my personal esteem and sympathy go, does not take the floor, but it cannot be said that in this draft budget law the resources for agriculture have doubled compared to the previous law when, in absolute terms, on a maneuver of almost 30 billion euros, there is only a few hundred million as direct resources for the sector. I am talking about direct resources: less perhaps than 2%. Mr President, it is not just a matter of cold figures. These figures show how little central agriculture is on the political agenda of this Government, which in fact shows that it does not believe, because it does not invest and does not devote resources, I do not say important, but at least acceptable to a sector that, in this period of crisis due to the pandemic, has shown that it never gives up and guarantees food for everyone, a task not easy in the current context. [[Applause]] But there are other things that concern us, Mr President. The first is fundamental and decisive for the maintenance of the sector. We have the impression - and we sincerely regret it - that there is no vision, a strategic plan for our agriculture, but that we always try to put a patch in too many emergencies; so many stages and no vision. A lack of vision - in our opinion - is also the lack, to date, of a national strategic plan, to be presented in a few days to the European Commission for the implementation of the next common agricultural policy (CAP). The Commissions in Parliament do not know what is written in that document to date. We do not know, because the document has not passed from these fora, what are the priorities, the guidelines, the objectives, the means. In short, we do not know, beyond the contours, what actions our agriculture wants to push. I close my brackets on the CAP and not on the PNRR issue, which has already been extensively explained by our parent company, Ciriani. We regret some of the controversy of some friends, my colleague Senator, but I believe that approving this Plan - as has been said - rather than tomorrow, next week, it is true that it would not change anything in substance, but would have allowed all of us senators to have a readiness compared to what is written there. There is much talk of ecological transition. I feel that colleagues are filling their mouths a lot, Mr President. European leaders launch slogans that surely hit the collective imagination: 3 billion trees to plant from today to 2030. We are already late, because to date not one has actually been planted. But if we try to make a quick account, it means planting 300 million trees a year, a million trees a day. But do we realize? Do you realize, fellow senators, what we're talking about? But admitted - and not allowed - that it is also possible, I ask myself - and I ask the Government - if there is a plan of planting in our country. But above all, who produces these trees and how many can be produced? We don't know, because there's no strategy. In addition to not investing in green, the problem is that nothing is done at the legislative level to help the sector. Specifically of the draft budget law, as Brothers of Italy we proposed the rewording of the green bonus, but we were unheard. Not only that: the law on florovivaism, approved in the Chamber and examined in the Committee on Agriculture, is blocked in the Budget Committee from the early days of August. Let me explain: we are in full ecological transition and the law on the nursery sector has been blocked for months, by the State Accounting Office, which has given a negative opinion on a text already approved by a branch of Parliament, preventing us, in fact, from voting on all those amendments that would certainly have improved the text. I mean, we need plants and we block a law to give certainties to those who produce them. We are always on the subject of the environment, Mr President: we are going through a real wildlife emergency, which is putting the animal and environmental balance at serious risk. It is above all a phenomenon that is bringing many farmers and farmers to their knees. I could speak for hours, describing the multitude of wildlife that harms agriculture, but it is clear that the most striking is the phenomenon of overcrowding of wild boars, which now come to walk quietly in the streets of the cities. But we can't joke about it, because they are a danger and a threat to road safety. By now there are thousands of accidents, of which unfortunately some mortals. [[Applause]] Luckily, there hasn't been a case of attacking people yet. Wild boars are a danger to the environment, but above all a health hazard. These animals transmit African swine fever and its possible spread in the country would be the end of pig farming and the production of sausages, one of our products of excellence. What do we do with this financial manoeuvre? Resources are allocated for sterilization, instead of preparing resources for a serious extraordinary national plan of killings, in order to bring those animals to a sustainable number, and then to put in place all the actions necessary for containment, including the amendment of the law of 11 February 1992, n. 157, now almost thirty years old and no longer suitable for dealing with today's situations. No resources are put in place to compensate farmers for this damage. Allow me to make a further consideration always related to the General Accounting of the State. I believe that we must restore the primacy of politics over bureaucracy and apparatus. Apart from the law on florovivaism, do you want to explain to me why, when there is a measure that works (I think agriculture 4.0), it has to go into the field of accounting to depower it just because it drains resources? If it creates development, economy and employment, it must be maintained and - indeed - strengthened. Unfortunately, however, we are in a strange country: if something works, it should be abolished or modified to make it less attractive. Mr President, at the beginning of my speech I said that little is said about agriculture in this budgetary manoeuvre, so much so that as a group we have tabled about 80 specific amendments on the subject, all aimed at filling the gaps that had appeared in a first analysis of the measure. There was a lack of support for the beer sector, to be supported with adequate resources and greater regulatory simplification, especially to facilitate the craft beer sector. Fortunately, with the appropriate amendments we have partly resolved this issue. We have proposed an extension of the entry into force of the cereal loading and unloading register to make it easier and easier to understand the related procedures to help the supply chain at this difficult time. Too bad we found a wall from the government. We have also found a similar wall on the proposal to facilitate agricultural supplies within network contracts. We've been unheard. There is no support for fruit and vegetable producers and no resources are available to compensate for the damage caused by wildlife, of which I have already said. However, I would like to take this opportunity to remind this House and you, Mr President, that there is a final report on an assigned act, voted in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production, without any votes against, but that we cannot bring this House to the attention because of the obstruction of certain political majority forces. No resources have been foreseen for water management, which become fundamental in this increasingly unpredictable climate system. Few resources have been foreseen for interventions aimed at the contrast of xylella which, due to a poor management of the crisis by the regional administration of Puglia, is destroying an entire sector and territory. The climate system can put many productions in crisis and lose its status as an agricultural producer due to the loss of production prevalence. Fortunately, at least in this, the government wanted to listen to us. In the same way, he listened to the appeal related to the renegotiation of the debt. It is a good thing that in some cases - a few, unfortunately - the Government has not perched itself on preliminary positions. We have tried to compensate for the total lack of measures for the fisheries sector, put under stress by increasingly stringent European legislation and by the lack of strategy to protect our fishermen and, automatically, our seas from the savage assault of fleets and vessels from other countries that certainly do not comply with the rules imposed on our fishermen. Nothing. We're very sorry. I could add a lot of other things, but I will finish. Colleagues, analyzing everything that has been approved in the Commission, seems to have passed more an old tip law than a budget law. This shows how, in order to keep up such a heterogeneous and jagged majority, there is a need for a downward mediation and an attempt to please everyone, which is certainly not good for the nation. Above all, however, I believe - and I repeat this - that agriculture needs a vision which, from this budget law, certainly does not appear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u45	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a little attention because I think I have to say some important things. I am sorry that this House is not represented at its best, because I am going to talk about the prerogatives of Parliament and the role of individual Members, taking advantage of the debate on the draft budget law, on which I have little or almost nothing to say. In the conditions given, in fact, to have dealt with the topic of the Irpef, the IRAP, the TOSAP, the superbonus, the extension of the debitorial records, the income of citizenship as modified, of the honorary judiciary I think it is an important step to try to permanently tow the country out of the dry land. More could be done, better could be done; certainly Parliament could have had a greater impact, but we have once again made the interests of the country prevail over territorial interests and of individual parties. I would, however, like to point out here that there is an unpleasant incident which is repeated by the Government towards the individual Member of Parliament. In the decree-law supports a rule was passed that temporarily modified, therefore not to system, the law on the contracts, allowing the morose entrepreneurs with the tax not only to participate in the contests (while the law on the contracts previewed and the exclusion), but even the suspension of the executive procedures. From that moment the undersigned tried to introduce in all the measures that followed a rule without financial coverage and that was not in conflict with the system, a norm consequent to that modification that had been made in the decree-law supports. That amendment stated that, while it is true that the morous entrepreneurs did not only see procedures suspended but could participate in tenders, even more so would have been possible for those who, on the other hand, had extinguished their debt during the races. This amendment in the various measures has always found an opposition, and not for political reasons - I would have understood that - but for technical reasons by officials, heads of the legislative office, consultants and I do not know who else of the Ministries, who have camped inconsistent, unjustified and irrational reasons. And we have arrived, Madam Undersecretary, at the discussion of the tax decree-law, in which the Undersecretary representing the Government, in a fiery discussion - I do not know how many colleagues were present in the Commissions meeting 6a and 11a - while risking to go in minority on this amendment, proposed the approval of an agenda. Knowing that at that time the government would be put in a minority and that it would be a sacred thing, because it would be an answer not to the political government but to its external technical advisors, out of a sense of responsibility we agreed to turn that amendment into an agenda. Normally, the agendas are accepted with the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "to," but that has been accepted without conditions. Then in the debate on the draft budget law, Amendment 13.0.61 was tabled - I do not know if the Undersecretary wants to pin it down, because you are still in time to remedy this injustice and unreasonableness - which took up exactly the agenda on which the Government had expressed a favourable opinion. It was therefore not only a obstructionist attitude, but also a lack of loyalty to Members of Parliament. On this amendment, once again, the usual known ones have been included, who have given an unfounded opinion. I beg you to evaluate it. I read some of President Draghi's whispering statements. He says he thinks about the present and not the future and also says that the government will go on without him. 12 p.m. (VITAL FOLLOWS). I formally ask President Draghi, by virtue of the popular mandate I have received and by virtue of that commitment I signed in February 2021, to support this Government, if anything has changed compared to the prospects it had given itself. I ask, that is, if he intends to continue to carry the country towards the exit from the tunnel or if, instead, in the presence of the failure to reach an expectation, albeit legitimate, can change his attitude. If so, in fact, from today I feel free and will take my determinations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very strongly convinced of this. The name of this draft budget law should be changed. You should restore the name of "Tip Law." Who is in these classrooms, both in the Senate and in the House, knows well what the law tip in the Budget Committee was. In fact, for a few years, you have brought this law back to life. Just read some newspapers, which are more vulgar than me in using certain terms and which call it Marchetta law. This is because, practically, many senators have brought home micro-amendments: something that had never been seen. Truly, you, who are the Government of the best, are for us the Government of the best to change what would be useful to the Italians in favor of the territory with these micro expenses, which of course can bring consent to the territory. We thought we had already seen them all, instead we lacked the tip law. It's just a vagonade of micronorms. I will not read them, also because I do not know how many of you have actually read, even given the very compressed times, the rules that are contained in this bill. However, we find funding for 7,000 euros. And then we hear government representatives filling their mouths with expansive maneuvering. Colleagues, language is a convention. Words have a weight. You use the expression expansive maneuver: in the meantime, I would like to make a clarification. If one could speak, apart from the marchettes, of expansive maneuvering, this government would have no merit. The expansive maneuver is determined by the PNRR, therefore by the mountain of money that will come. However, as our leader, Senator Ciriani, has said very well, this aspect is also shameful. When you go to sleep in the evening and look in the mirror, brushing your teeth, I do not know how you are not ashamed of the fact that, on one of the main issues for the Italians, for the mountain of money that will come, you do not give any time to read and to deepen. But I do not dwell on this, because the Ciriani group leader was very effective in his speech. So the merit of the expansive maneuver, I repeat, does not belong to you. The merit is, on the one hand, the PNRR, always hoping that the money that will come will be able to spend it, and, on the other hand, the suspension of the Stability Pact. Therefore, do not take pride in the Italians' merits, which are not yours. I would now like to think about two issues: on the one hand, the method and, on the other hand, the merit. On the method, you've managed to do worse than any government. This budget law is well behind the Senate, but above all it has been blocked for more than a month in the budget committee. I want to be clear because I would never want the Italians to think that the blame for the delay of this approval is given to the opposition. No, it's not. It is entirely the fault of the majority that supports the Government, a majority that, when it is in Palazzo Chigi, is majority, while when it comes to the Senate or goes to the House is opposition and has demonstrated it billions of times. You kept the budget law blocked because everyone had a flag to take home, net of the interests of the Italians. That is the reason for the delay; that is why we are still waiting today. Certainly we would not have voted for trust. Once there was shame when the question of trust in the draft budget law was raised, because it was rightly considered to be one of the most important laws to be adopted. Today you did not have that shame at all, do not prove it, so there will be yet another confidence, on the budget law and on the measure for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR). All this, ladies and gentlemen, is to the detriment of the Italians. We would have had a great opportunity with this draft budget law. Brothers of Italy, as patriotic and responsible opposition, has done everything to improve the measure, but of course most of the amendments that we have tabled have been rejected and not for a matter of merit and I will give you an example. Thanks to Brothers of Italy, there will finally be controlled mechanical ventilation in schools. Every day we talk about the tragedy of the Covid-19. Let's assume - at least these are the news of the press - that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow there will be another grip of the Government also for those who like me, the majority of Italians, have made the third dose of vaccine: we will probably find in twenty-four hours that even those who took the third dose of vaccine will have to take the swab, the contrary of what you said a few weeks ago, that is that the swabs were not useful. We know, not because Brothers of Italy says so, but because the whole scientific community says so, that the major clusters are in schools and on public transport. Then, instead of continuing to say no, which is much easier than working and finding solutions, you continue on that path. Thank God, a real thing to fight contagion you put in your law tip because Brothers of Italy insisted, because we saw that our governor of the Marches had great results with controlled mechanical ventilation. This is to say that we are not here to do a bieco obstructionism because we want to be against it. No, we would like to be in favour of Italy and the Italians; we would like to be in favour of all the laws that are made and that improve the quality of life of people, companies and workers, but for you it is perhaps too complicated a speech. Let me say that it was certainly not necessary to uncomfortable an authoritative and clearly renowned person like President Draghi to make such a modest budget law, a budget law that has no vision, which makes the Italians miss a great opportunity to consolidate this recovery, because let us not forget that 9% of our gross domestic product has been left on the ground, with deaths and injuries, which are companies and workers. You have missed an opportunity, I repeat, because this is a draft budget law of which the meaning is very clear to those who, like me, are a little accustomed and have been sitting in the parliamentary classrooms for years. It is an electoral budget law, a budget law that must not displease anyone, that must leave everyone selfishly - I am not talking about all Italians, but about all the senators and Members - certain that they can make an excellent electoral campaign. Congratulations to this Government and this majority. We are different and proud of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u47	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u48	Mr President, this budget law has been the second since the beginning of the pandemic and, if last year's law had to do mainly with the urgency of buffering the crisis, it must have the ambition to introduce strategic reforms of change, which are linked to the great European plan Next generation EU, which we strongly wanted, and to the priorities of our National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The pandemic has struck us so strongly because our era and still is a society too fragile and too divided by injustices and inequalities. We need reforms, not for themselves, but for them to collect social demands, to correct the distortions that the pandemic has shown mercilessly. Stortures that are a political fact, to which we must give a political response, changing things from what they were before, building a new model of development that puts the person and the work at the center precisely when the revolution of technologies, algorithms, artificial intelligence demands the need for a stronger role of politics to give voice to those who are invisible or to those who perceive themselves as invisible. There are, in fact, jobs and there are whole lives that by our laws it is as if they did not exist. One of these is the creative and cultural work of performing arts and entertainment. The pandemic hit harder on this ground because this world, so complex and fragmented, was not only closed for a very long time, but also because it is more exposed, more fragile and more unjust. A world, which as soon as it re-emerged from lockdown, has come to the square. In the many demonstrations there were signs written: "We are invisible, but indispensable." We have listened to this world these months and with them we have written draft laws that are going forward. Yet around us it continues to be a time not only difficult, but for many dramatic with the risk of losing entire generations of artists and technicians. I quote them together because it is a single world, a single supply chain. There is a professional dispersion that costs our country very much, because culture and entertainment are the representation of Italy in the world and are at the same time a formidable multiplier of development, economic growth and employment, ideas, future, bonds and social cohesion. They are one of the vital and indispensable forms of our democracy; it is Italy, loved and recognized in the world for its arts. However, all this has a high and often unacceptable price, because it is based on the void of the lack of professional recognition of this work. It is for this reason that we ask finally to introduce in Italy a social statute of the works of performing and creative arts that recognizes to everyone protection in case of illness and motherhood, that recognizes insurance, social security and the possibility of increasing the possibility for the creative work to become cultural and creative enterprise, with specific support. The emergency will not end until we have changed a system that is unfair today. The emergency was already there before the pandemic, but he pretended not to see it. To put an end to the emergency, there is not enough buffer measures, one-off measures, which are important in the immediate future, but which risk being conservative support which ultimately benefits those who are already stronger. On the other hand, structural reform is needed that first of all recognizes all professions (in a world that is constantly changing for digital innovations and in which new jobs and new types are established) to ensure that no one remains outside a universal system of protection. And to do this the first urgency is to finally recognize the discontinuous character of creative work; I disagree because art and artistic technique, in order to accomplish, need a time of study, research, action, preparation, professional updating. This preparatory time is a job, it must be recognized as a job and it must be paid. Today, in this budget law there is a first step, a fund of EUR 70 million; it is a first step, although not yet sufficient, because it serves and will serve much more resources. However, it is a first recognition of the demands of these months and we will try to direct it immediately, already in the discussion of the delegation law (which is in progress), towards the creation of a real compensation of discontinuity that is both structural and that is pivot for universal welfare measures for all contractual types, both autonomous and subordinate, that is pivot to finally recognize to all the workers of the creative sector the possibility of having a pension treatment. Today it is very difficult for an entertainment worker to meet the requirements for the right to a pension, because of a distorting effect and the rules of the show, so it happens that the fund of the entertainment workers at the INPS has a surplus of 5 billion and 400 million assets. We say: use! Because these resources are the result of the contributions of the workers of the show and the performing arts; these resources must be redistributed to the workers of the show in terms of universal welfare measures. We think that around the recognition of work, which is the first reform and must be the center of this new design, other pieces then have to march together. This is why the law that we proposed in support of businesses, places and spaces of culture and entertainment must be supported. We think of the live clubs, the small theatres of proximity and neighborhood, the cultural centers; there is also here the recognition of an entrepreneurial and productive system, but together the recognition of a network of community and social garrison that changes lives and that keeps up neighborhoods and cities. This, President, is a political challenge; it is not a category dispute, but it is a decisive challenge for the entire country system, if it is true (and it is true) that the new world that we want to build after the pandemic must be the one in which growth and inclusion are no longer distinct, but they are together, because there can be no economic recovery without a political vision, there can be no protection without emancipation. We owe this particularly to the new generations and to those who are paying more for this crisis. To make sure no one ever feels and is invisible again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u50	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking all those who have worked tirelessly in recent days and in recent nights to complete the examination of the amendments to the draft budget law: the offices of the Ministries, who have worked on opinions and rewordings, although we have not always liked them, although some amendments, such as the first signature of Senator Floris on Air Italy's workers, have had the opposite opinion (this was not good news), even if nothing has been done on the break-up-b and the instalments due and not paid on 14 December, despite the agendas submitted to the tax decree and despite the fact that so many taxpayers have failed to comply with the deadlines. I would like to thank my colleagues in the Budget Committee, Mr Pesco, the rapporteurs, the Group leaders and all the members of the Government who took part in the meetings. Yes, it is true that a number of localistic, sectoral, sometimes otherwise defined, often derogatory, amendments have been adopted, but they are not all amendments to be denigrated or to be diminished in their importance. Often, behind a territorial or sectoral amendment there is the work of so many men and women, so the lives of so many families. We all know that it is important to save even one life. I am thinking of the amendment on port workers, the extension of the non-starter allowance for workers in the ports of Taranto and Gioia Tauro. I am thinking above all of the green light to the constitution of the agency for the harbour job for the workers of the port channel of Cagliari: a great result for which I thank the Sardinian colleagues who have signed with me the amendment or that they have introduced analogous amendments. I thank Deputy Minister Alessandra Todde for the work done upstream. Surely the families of these workers will spend a less sad Christmas and with a little more hope. There are not only small sectoral amendments, but also major issues: the start of tax reform, with the rewriting of the Irpef rates and the abolition of the IRAP for individuals with VAT numbers. The latter is a huge conquest desired by Parliament, in particular by the Finance Committees of the House and Senate, wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars. The rewriting of the Irpef rates has led to a reduction of the Irpef especially for those taxpayers who are called middle class, but who middle class are not. The biggest benefits in percentage terms are directed absolutely to the lowest income classes; the biggest benefits in absolute terms to those who take a salary around 2,000 euros per month: employees, the category that constitutes 38 percent of taxpayers, but that pays over 50% of the overall Irpef and that has never received noteworthy benefits in terms of reducing the Irpef. Those who earn 2,000 euros a month are certainly more fortunate than those who earn 1,800, but are not rich, especially if they have family, children and mortgage: in these cases, alas, it is very close to poverty. The intervention that entered into the draft budget law must be seen as a continuation of the cut in the tax wedge that we introduced in 2020 and that provides for a bonus, an additional treatment of 1,200 euros per year, 100 euros per month in favour of employees with an income of up to 28,000 and that after 28,000 decreases up to 40,000. So, we've actually been thinking about everyone. Then, President, there's the superbonus. I do not want to repeat what my colleagues have already said; this is the greatest result we have achieved: to save the superbonus for single homes, to remove the ISEE threshold of EUR 25,000. [[Applause]] A proposal - the one written in the initial text of the Government - that would have been discriminatory and unacceptable because it would have gone to the detriment especially of those who live in small municipalities where the single house is not a small house, as we have been told in recent months, but simply a house, is the house. I would like to say another thing: the superbonus is not only an extraordinary measure, it is not just a flag; it is not just a real economic, social and environmental policy that, despite all the attempts to restrain it and depower it, despite the initial difficulties, has already allowed us to achieve enormous results in terms of energy savings, as has recently been certified by CRESME. Superbonus is more than that. One of the characteristics of Italy is certainly the fact that over 80% of the citizens own a house owned, lives in his own house. This is something that has certainly allowed us to overcome with less apprehension the serious crises we have been going through in recent years; certainly it has always allowed us to be more independent and less blackmailable than these great crises, compared to the actors of the same. A measure like the superbonus would make us less blackmailable than the crisis that awaits us in terms of energy supply and energy cost. However, we are transmitted, in a more or less veiled way, the message that having owned houses would be an element in some way negative, to be corrected and in any case to be punished. Well, I would like to say to my colleagues, to the government and especially to Europe that having a house of property and keeping at home is not a fault or a sin, but it is a gesture of love not only for ourselves, but also for our family, for our companions, for our companions, for our children; it is the greatest gesture of love because it expresses all the concern and all the interest we have for their future. When we make the house even more beautiful, even warmer, more protected, more efficient, we do it not only thinking about the economic aspect, though important, but thinking that in that house our children live and live there and we want them to live well. As I said, superbonus is not only a facilitation or a formidable social and environmental economic policy, but it is our greatest gesture of love for Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues in the Budget Commission, the President, the rapporteurs and the technicians who have supported my colleagues in their complex work on drawing up the amendments and voting on them. We are faced with an expansive budget law, which cuts eight billion between Irpef, IRAP and cutting the tax wedge; a maneuver that gives and does not take away, without cuts in public spending. It is a budget law in which the Democratic Party fully recognizes itself, rich in measures that reflect and interpret the commitment of an important political reformist and progressive center-left force. The proposed measures were supported at the stages of preparation, approval and amendment at Commission level. There is a strengthening of the measures provided for in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, with more investments and a particular focus on the issues of energy transition. On the school we have resources for a three-year school dimensioning, for the stabilization of teachers and for ATA staff, as well as for peer schools: measures that are very close to our heart and on which we have committed ourselves. There are important measures that concern young people, with rules and resources to combat bullying, to combat psychological discomfort, but above all interventions that concern the strengthening of apprenticeships, with a brake on unpaid internships and therefore a path of stabilization of work and enhancement of the skills of young people. In addition to this, linked more directly to young people, there is also the measure on the social EPA, with a reduction to thirty-two years, compared to the thirty-six, for the retirement of those who carry out weary jobs, such as constructions and ceramists. Thanks to our amendment, there is a strengthening of the non-self-sufficiency fund, and then again measures concerning women with funding for anti-violence centres and specific measures for abusive men. Attention has also been paid in this draft budget law to the mayors: one of our proposals has been transposed, which was under discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has arranged for the mayors' allowances to be increased in order to restore dignity and recognize the important role that the first citizens play within our communities. We would have liked to have also adopted the rule concerning the corresponding adjustment of allowances for city councillors, especially in large cities, because this is an important function which deserves recognition of its role from an economic point of view as well. I would also like to mention the pension contributions for the very young mayors, who often have to leave work when they start to do so, especially if they do not have a stable job, and are deprived of their pension contributions. There will also be a way for the Commission to continue this work which is close to our heart. There is a cover for the TOSAP for municipalities: still three months free for the occupation of public land for streetwalkers and dehor. Then there is the great measure of the superbonus, with the extension to the next 20 June also for the single family houses and for the second houses, although with progress works at least 30%, and also for the houses served by district heating; there is an extension also for ONLUS and RSA. Then, again, there are measures on the earthquakebonus. I would say that it is a bill of budget that we like and has been able to comprehend many of the measures that were at the heart of the Democratic Party. However, a note on the method: yesterday the rapporteur, Mr Errani, rightly said that something has become pathological and poses a significant problem of the functioning of the policy compared to the way in which the draft budget law was approved in the Commission and the difficulties that have arisen in coordinating all the work. I believe that the theme is really politics; the system is jammed and this mode of operation, which has now become a perfect alternate monocameralism, is in fact a modification of the country's material Constitution. Politics must have the capacity to deal with this issue, we cannot go on in this way. There is a need to question ourselves and put a real constitutional reform on the agenda, which substantially changes our working methods. There is also a need to review the rules of parliamentary operation and our regulations, because the submission of 6,200 amendments, when the draft budget is already one month late, creates a further jam of our mechanism and does not help to speed up. Finally, there is a question of form: with everything I said before and the difficulties of method that we had, the presence of Minister Franco today might have been appropriate. I have great esteem for the Undersecretary Cecilia Guerra, but the presence of the Minister of Economy today would have been a much better signal than the work we have all done together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u53	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u54	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a point of order, which I shall also make in an explanation of vote, because this draft budget law is particularly important in three respects: the first is the transition front, the second is the reform front, the third is the equity front. On the transition front, this budget law stands exactly at the side of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, feeding with resources and rules those digital transactions, ecological, but above all social in which we have engaged and that sees our horizon of action very close, to 2026. It is an important budget bill for its scope: 23 billion out of 30 are fed by the deficit and has hardly ever happened. We knew that with the safeguard clauses the Parliament and the Government had 5 or 6 billion to use to renew the country; instead, this bill of budget uses a huge space, 23 billion, to renew the country. It does so with courage, as on the fiscal reform front: it is a first step in tax reform. This draft budget deals with the issue of the Irpef, solving that historical problem, long-standing, well-known to all the technicians in the sector, which concerned the application and leaps of scales, making taxation fairer, relaxing it very much on average and low incomes. It also does so by taking a first step to solve that particularly unfair tax that has always been the IRAP, abolishing it for all natural persons who will no longer be burdened by an unjust tax, but above all they will be totally excluded from any kind of fulfillment. The second front facing these 23 billion is economic development and energy transition. There are very important measures, certainly the most important is that of building bonuses. We have extended them, we have made the rules usable, we have made it possible for Parliament to have a legitimate expectation on the part of those who had begun the work and who had planned to do it, without being penalised by those who had started and planned to start work before. It is a step forward, an important step. This law also does a lot about fairness; in fact, introducing the single universal shock absorber, as proposed in the last legislature by Senator Parente, in an interesting and in-depth bill, introducing the essential levels of performance (LEP) for kindergartens, disabled people and transport, is a key to the right reading to make our country truly fairer. The measure also takes steps, which are not yet sufficient, on the young people's front. However, we have insisted very much that the apprenticeship, an important tool to put our youngest and talented Italian boys in the position to start working and enter the world of work, should once again be extended and fueled by resources. Much more on the most fragile: there are important resources on disability and a package of reforms also fueled by resources on the subject of autism. It responds to known criticalities, such as that of the health crisis that once again sees us respond every day to growing emergencies, with over 4 billion invested. He's doing it on the energy emergency front. The budget maneuver is expected to be 3.8 billion, but overall 8 billion are allocated to lower the cost of energy on households, businesses and even local authorities. It does so on the inflation front that feeds the price bubble, in turn fueled also and unfortunately from the building bonuses. However, it does so by adjusting the prices and making the works more effective and not usable to further feed the price bubble. But what I would like to point out in this brief speech is what has been included in the draft budget law on a front against which many conferences are being held, but in practice few resources are put and few rules are written. I am referring to gender equality in our country. This budget law takes fundamental steps in the field of women's empowerment, refinanceing all policies in this sense, but putting the new standard of company certification on gender equality in the conditions of being effective, that is, ensuring that all companies in Italy are ready to certify themselves in terms of equality and lead women to be able to work far beyond the low 50% that sees us last in the European ranking with more than 20 points of gap compared not only to men, but also to all European women. It does a lot on the front of violence, a dramatic Italian plague that sees over 6 million women involved in the course of their lives. The income of freedom is refinanced to make women who have suffered violence able to resume their lives and to travel it with strength, freedom and the possibility to recreate a life free from violence. There is a very important reform on the violence front, starting from the notion that if there are women who suffer violence, there are men who do it. The draft budget then contains a rule that not only strengthens the Fund for the rehabilitation of abusive men and also redesigns the plant of the Department of Equal Opportunities of Minister Bonetti so that these centers are accredited and finally monitored all their interventions. The draft budget law does a lot, I appreciated it in the plant and especially for its being a non-ideological but very balanced law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u55	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft budget law which is not so different from the others we have seen, only that, perhaps more than ever this year, this measure highlights so many shortcomings, so many - let me say the pure concept of the word - deficiencies and shortcomings in our country. Today our country lacks an infrastructure system, which is fragile, both from the road and from the railway point of view; it has a health system certainly considered - and it is in some parts - an excellence, compared above all to other countries, but that has shown great fragility with the problem of the Covid-19; a system of reforms in continuous pursuit, which should be absolutely declined in a less hasty way; a tax system that travels with buffer regulations; a system of circular economy still embryonic; an economic and productive system with a wide diversified audience, that converges on demands that are legitimate, but that have been and continue to be mostly unheard. Therefore, the draft budget law before us, rather than being, in its nature, a measure that strengthens a basic system that should already be well-structured, simply becomes a buffer, however important, compared to the great difficulties that we have been dragging for more than twenty years now. It should be a flywheel for new initiatives and, on the other hand, we cannot see it as such. As a member of the 5th Commission, together with colleagues, colleagues and rapporteurs, whom I thank for the work they have done, together with the Undersecretaries and Ministers, whom I thank for their continued presence, and all those who have alternated these days, I can consider this to be a sort of measure - and, here too, I would like to say the word - 'cert', because, with its amendments, small, large, diversified, of stronger content for some and lighter for others, of imposing financial coverage or even of small cabotage, it is, however, a patch budgetary measure. In 2021, while we are preparing to vote, in the next few hours, another important measure, which should be the measure of recovery as well as resilience, the PNRR, we find ourselves legitimizing a series of contents that are fundamental to standing. That is what genuinely worries and degrades the work of this Parliament. Other Members have already pointed out this situation, because we could actually work together, as we have done (because we have worked in synergy), but with a genuinely more constructive and above all more incisive spirit. What else can we say about this budget, in addition to the numbers that are obvious, the different facets that the amendments bring and what I have already said? We can say that we would have expected the possibility of interacting, as a parliamentary group, in a stronger way. We ask the Italians to have resilience, to have patience and confidence, with rules that last three months in three months and that go to fill gaps of years and years. I'll ask the government something. First of all, I would like to thank the Undersecretary of War (even if the whole Government should be present during the examination of a budget of this kind with the difficulties we are facing) for listening to me. I hope that you will be able to express my wish, in addition to the wishes that I will not have the opportunity to make personally. I ask you to bring the following message to the government: trust your Parliament, reverse these positions and give us the opportunity and the time to work. We are the watchmen on the ground and we do not bring home the territorial amendment for a small article in the newspaper. We know by thread and by sign the needs of our territories. Have faith in your Parliament. We, who are different and come from different political and cultural territories and extractions, are still able to work. Use us as a tool to make your work true. We are not paperweights and we must not simply endorse your institutional work. Please bring this message: we are able to do a great job, trust us because we are able to work in synergy to ensure that these are real tools and not patches. We do not need a scheme act to be filled with simple criteria, small amendments which must then be compressed or small pieces to be distributed as small tips. We don't want to bring home the election result, but we want to be useful to the territory. We still have one year, there will be other proposals and other measures. Bring this message from Senator Faggi: we are able to work, produce and do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u57	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u58	Mr President, I begin with Mr Faggi's call for me too to put this nation's Parliament back at the centre of political life. This is without prejudice to the positions of any political force and also to the personal positions that may exist within the political forces, even understandably. Many political forces that today are in the government, for most of the legislature have been in opposition and, therefore, have shared with us the same anti-democratic view of the behaviour of the government, of this as well as of the previous government. We, who have always been proudly opposed, point out in a very civil way the distortions of a system or the interpretation that this Government gives it. I do so today, December 22nd, the anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution by the constituent Assembly in 1947. I do not believe that in 1947 the constituent Fathers (I look at my colleague Errani, who knows very well the history and also the subsequent evolutions) could have imagined that a Constitution, born after twenty years of dictatorship, would be slapmed by Parliament in 2021. This is a reminder to all political forces and to the Government that the example of the constituent Fathers does not end up in oblivion or in some amendment on the celebration of this anniversary (an amendment that is not there and I understand it, because one tries to hide the issue). Instead, we prefer to celebrate with 200,000 euros the birth and history of Christian Democracy, which - no one can hide it - also had an important role in this Senate. However, apart from this trade mark amendment, I believe that we could instead remember today's anniversary, even without 200,000 euros, perhaps translating that will of the constituent Fathers into something that represents more democracy than we have seen in recent years. In fact, there is an emergency. And the emergency is that there's a government like this. I also said this today in the Commission: the Conference of Group Leaders were convened at the same time, the Budget Commission to discuss - it is said - the Decree on the PNRR (which arrives today, by 3 p.m. the amendments must be tabled and will be discussed tomorrow) and even the Assembly for the general debate. Three institutional levels have been convened to reduce the debate. I understand that at the end of the year it is difficult to bring everyone together and that we are getting a little late, but I also want to stigmatize what must not be and must not become a practice, which, moreover, is worsening from year to year, because I believe that something like this has never been seen. After that, I understand the need for someone to support national GDP through parliamentary vacations, from which the will to compress the time to be able to free everyone by December 23, so that ski areas like mine can enjoy the holiday of so many of us. However, I believe that Parliament deserves a little more respect. It also annoys, while thanking the majority rapporteurs of the maneuver, Rivolta and Errani, who have spent themselves to succeed I do not say to please the opposition. I have heard someone say before that we have even been voted on a number of amendments, but I do not think it is a concession. I think I hear the press conferences of the former President of the Council when he said that we were allowed to do something. It's not like that. I do not think you should give us any amendments, not least because, contrary to other proposals for amendments which perhaps involve hiring two employees in a municipality or to amendments of EUR 7,000, like some of those which appear in this maneuver, we did not devote ourselves to amendments of individual or group; we devoted ourselves to amendments which had a strong general interest, for which there was a great deal of sharing in this House. They were not amendments by Brothers of Italy, for Brothers of Italy; they were amendments we thought necessary and acceptable in order to be able to influence this maneuver and improve the quality of life of our citizens, according to the mandate we received, like you and like everyone else. I therefore believe that respect for the opposition forces also manifests itself through deeds, but also through words. I repeat that I am sorry to hear that someone has allowed us to see some amendments adopted, partly because they are perhaps the same ones who have asked to support theirs when the majority wanted to support others. It is therefore regrettable that the Brothers of Italy serve when it is necessary to lend a helping hand to a political force and then must instead be content with almsgiving or something that is perceived as a handcuff that is given to be good and perhaps not signal, in the Chamber or in the Commission, that an important and fundamental measure such as that on the PNRR arrives. It is being discussed today in the Commission, and there is a deadline for tabling amendments at 3 p.m. and, as a matter of fact, a possible vote of confidence, perhaps tomorrow. Here, too, it would be enough simply to take into account the occasions when the question of trust and the decree of urgency was used to understand that perhaps someone should take a conscience examination. I don't even need to say it. If, until the last parliamentary term, confidence was an expropriation of Parliament and something to constantly attack the Government and it had to be only an extraordinary measure, which was only used when it was not possible to do otherwise, you institutionalized the use of trust. You institutionalized, after opposing it, the referendum on monocameralism. In fact, bicameralism no longer exists, but not because someone took responsibility for changing it by a rule. It no longer exists for your anti-democratic practice, without anyone's mandate. Indeed, for a large part of you, that is, for the relative majority party in this Parliament, it was precisely the fight against the vote of confidence, against the anti-democracy of the previous Parliament, which enabled you to represent one third of the citizens. So, if anyone has to take a test to get a driver's license, it's you: it's called an examination of conscience and you don't need us to do it for you, because you can do it quietly on your own. It's true. I have the utmost respect for those 11 million Italian citizens who have trusted you. They also have my greatest solidarity, total and extended. It is no longer 11 million, because, objectively, the polls tell us that there are many less, but they do, because they believed to vote something and found themselves actually something else. We, on the other hand, with the utmost responsibility and with the utmost lucidity of those who may have used strong tones, but have never stood up against the institutions (no one!), even when you occupy them, we have maintained and continue to maintain always, as the only lighthouse, the national interest, even when the only lighthouse and the only interest that you have is to continue to remain here to occupy these benches. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u59	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u60	Mr President, I have asked for the floor to denounce once again the democratic anomaly in this Parliament. The bicameralism is over and in its place we have a night monocameralism. All of us have witnessed in these days the insane practice of deciding the fate of the country during the night, like the fugitives, with continuous convocations of the Budget Committee for 15 times, after the deadline set for 29 November for the submission of amendments: practically a record, in the season of monocameralism in fact. What is this, if not the desire to exonerate the function of Members and this noble institution? Running decisions already taken by the Government and agreements behind closed doors. Those who refused to obey this practice were, of course, cut off. Many of our colleagues have complained about the loss of dignity. Only a few amendments have passed. The most serious thing, however, is not this, but the spectacle that we gave the country. I had tabled an amendment, along with other colleagues, to consolidate the process of essential performance levels. The so-called LEPs cannot be limited to social assistance alone, which was announced in full yesterday, as if only that were enough to bridge the gap in services. The essential levels of performance are the key to finally finding a solution to territorial inequality that has gripped our country for decades, which also stigmatizes Europe. It is true that the maneuver refers for the first time to the LEPs and could be a step forward, if it were not that, as denounced by a few colleagues, this is done watered down, without a chronoprogram or a certain anchor to the bottom of equalization and, above all, without anyone knowing the text of the mythological bill on differentiated autonomy. My amendment on the LEPs aimed essentially to strengthen the function of Parliament (its "portance" was said in the Chamber), asking for the mandatory and binding opinion of the Commissions of the two Chambers and the Technical Commission for the standard requirements, establishing that the Government, before instructing any act to respond to requests from the Regions, first comes to the Chambers to ask for an act of direction, in order to limit the arbitrary of Government and Regions. I also proposed to delete the reference to standard costs and to specify that the per capita expenditure for each service - I stress - must be the same throughout the national territory, without prejudice to the need to put in place equal measures for citizens in areas currently disadvantaged such as the Mezzogiorno. What was the point of that amendment? There is no need to know, because it has been decided all night. This move makes the pair with the concerted one to decide on other tables, unknown to Parliament, the mythological text of the bill on differentiated autonomy. What does that mean? It means that some regions will not only gain more competences, but will retain more tax revenue in their territories, thus violating the principles of solidarity and unity of the Republic enshrined in our Constitution. But has Parliament decided who manages these resources? Will the Ministry handle you? Will the Regions or other institutional entities manage them? Otherwise, there is a risk of creating "republicettes" that undermine national unity at its root. Among other things, the pandemic has clearly shown that the regionalisation of resources and skills - see health - is not a guarantee of efficiency, but the exact opposite. Therefore, it is not at all true that autonomy, as some northern governor says, is good for everyone; it is good only for someone's interests. The scheme is clear and disturbing to us, but the Italians do not know, because they are not told, either by politics or by the press, and there is no debate in Parliament, either inside or outside the institutions. It is true that the agenda was accepted at my signature on the differentiated autonomy and the LEPs with which the Government undertakes to assess the possibility of removing the bill on autonomy from the Update Note to the DEF and to make binding the opinions of the Commissions on the LEPs, but, if an agenda is a handshake between gentlemen, it is now up to the Government to keep its word, accepting the agenda. The fact remains that with this manoeuvre we had the opportunity to adjust the shot quickly through the amendment and, with these premises, let us not deceive ourselves that the PNRR will put things right. The gaps between North and South will remain and, indeed, at some point they will start to grow again, as the Svimez (Association for the Development of Industry in the Mezzogiorno) reminds us, and then we will see who will have the courage to come back to the citizens of the South to ask for a new vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u63	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, as with agreements between the groups, I call for a suspension of the work of this House from 1 p.m. to 2.30 p.m. when the general debate is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u64	If there is agreement between the groups, I suspend the sitting until 2.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.59 p.m. and resumed at 2.32 p.m.) The session is resumed. Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget law is always one of the most important appointments, indeed the most important of all, to which Parliament and the Government are called every year. In this 2021, however, the maneuver is all the more important because, together with the PNRR, it must represent a turning point and a restart from the dramatic experience of Covid. The pandemic, in fact, in addition to the obvious and obvious health and economic repercussions to which this maneuver wants to give a response, has had tragic repercussions also from the social point of view, especially as regards its effect on children. The youngest must always be the target of particular attention and it is all the more right that they are now, after having lived long months particularly hard that, between lockdown, school closing period and other limitations, have undermined its sociality and in many cases have caused real inconveniences, to which it is indispensable to give immediate response. The impossibility to meet with friends or cousins, to go to the playground or even to take a simple walk to the park has had devastating effects on children. As President of the Bicameral Committee for Childhood and Adolescence, I have been active in adopting measures in the interests of the youngest. I have therefore proposed in this maneuver - and I am delighted with the adoption of my proposal - the establishment of a fund to combat the hateful phenomenon that follows our children all the way within the home walls and their bedrooms, which should instead represent the place where they feel safe. It is in fact its pervasiveness that makes cyberbullying all the more serious and dangerous than bullying, because, between smartphones, social networks and messaging apps, this real scourge does not abandon the kids practically ever. There is no doubt that the pandemic, especially in the months when the schools were closed and the children communicated only with social media, has exacerbated this problem, which has dramatic consequences, making them insecure, afraid, dismayed and mostly unable to react. Prevention necessarily passes from knowledge and ability to detect a subtle phenomenon such as cyberbullying. It is precisely for this reason that I have proposed the establishment of an ad hoc fund so that parents, teachers and associations in the sector can be adequately trained to recognise and thus put a stop to this type of abuse and, above all, to help those who are victims of it. This is a battle which, with the entire Commission, I have been leading for years and which, with the establishment of this fund, is finally taking a fundamental step forward. Similarly, the centrality of children and young people finds new life through another proposal that will see the light of day with the budget law: the funding with 2 million euros of the Guarantee Authority for childhood and adolescence, a fundamental institution that, thanks to these appropriations, will finally be able to play its role in a fully operational way, with its own staff and a structure able to face the demanding work that every day is called to carry out. Then I simply consider the money allocated to the figure of the psychologist in the schools to be fundamental. As I said at the beginning, the Covid in fact had very serious repercussions on the sociality and the psychophysical well-being of the children, all the more so with the teaching at a distance that for months nailed the students in front of a monitor or a smartphone. Data shudder: Suicide has become the second cause of death among children aged 15 and up, while episodes of self-harm among children have increased by 45 percent. They are frightening numbers, which make us understand how indispensable it is to provide appropriate psychological assistance to our children, even at one of the two main educational agencies, namely the school. For months we have been discussing the need to convince the undecided to vaccinate, but we have never before posed the problem of fear that even the youngest may have when their parents decide to vaccinate them now. Well, I am sure that in the coming months the role of the psychologist at school will be very useful also with respect to the need to calm down children under 12 waiting to immunize or immediately after receiving the vaccine. In addition to the measures I have just mentioned, I also find the introduction of the bonus with which we intend to deal with mental disorders, because we know that the relapses of this pandemic are many and often very serious, so much so that we need adequate support, that not everyone can afford. Hence the decision to sign an amendment by my colleague Gallone, who has also been tabled by other groups, precisely to safeguard mental health, which for many has been put to the test in this pandemic with the various restrictions. There are only two ways to overcome the nightmare that we have been living for two years: we can pause to look at the rubble that this pandemic is leaving behind or we can react, making the most of the means available to us. Every measure is perfectable and you can always do more and better, we know that, but I certainly can only express great satisfaction at the attention that has been shown in this maneuver to the universe of minors, recipients of important measures and funding, which has been necessary for many years now; therefore, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u66	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u67	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are preparing for the general debate on the draft budget law, a maneuver of EUR 30 billion. This is therefore an important measure, especially at the difficult time our nation is going through. We are still in a pandemic phase, in a situation where companies have difficulty working and paying attention to the economic factor. I think that the first important point of this maneuver and the bravest is the cutting of taxes, much wanted by the center-right because, as they say, cutting taxes increases growth. Therefore, the Irpef cut of seven billion and an IRAP cut of one billion for all the independents and professionals: a measure strongly wanted by the League. With regard to the cut of the Irpef, it was important a sub-amendment wanted by the League for the neutrality clause to provide the Provinces and the Autonomous Regions with the amount necessary to settle the lower revenue of the taxes on the provincial and regional budgets. Another important issue, among the country's emergencies, is the expensive raw materials, a phenomenon that has hit the entire economic market this year and that risks questioning the excellent forecasts of GDP growth, estimated at 6.1 percent: increasing the cost of raw materials and consequently increasing the gas and electricity bills, it is going to affect inflation and everything translates into higher costs for families. This is where there must be an important position on the part of the government. The two billion allocated and the further 1.8 billion foreseen in the maneuver are appreciable, but, as Matteo Salvini says, it still takes a table to make the expensive bills decrease and find a solution, because this has a significant impact on the real economy of every day. Among the issues that we face with the maneuver, there are the growth of productivity in the country and above all the attempt to increase the work. Citizenship income has been refinanced with 1 billion, but it must only be used in an emergency, because the government's objective must be to give the opportunity to find work. So let all the stakes that have been inserted so that there are no smart people, who instead have to go to work and not take advantage of the support for those who really need it. [[Applause]] Another theme touched is altitude 100. The League has fought so that people, especially fragile and weary workers, can continue to retire soon. We have achieved 102, although we would have been happier to be able to continue at 100: it must be borne in mind that people who do hard work are also entitled to enjoy the pension without having to wait too long. Let us remember that we work, yes, to support the family, but we must also recognize what has been done in the course of life, so with a fair and equitable pension for our citizens. Thanks to the League has been extended for a further year female option; women will be able to access it again this year thanks to the League. As for the superbonus, the battle that was waged last night in the Budget Committee was aimed at the elimination of the ISEE roof of EUR 25,000 and its extension to single-family villas: we can also say that it was planned thanks to the League. An additional one hundred and eighty days have been extended and this is another battle that the League will continue to do, because in this moment of emergency we must ensure that people can retain liquidity, because they do not have any, and that is why they have difficulty paying for the folders. A further three months of exemption from TOSAP and COSAP: it is clear that in the pandemic period you have to try to give the opportunity to exhibitors and conductors of public exercises to work also outside. The tourism fund, with EUR 150 million, is also important in order to support those most affected this year. Surely the vaccines have been made, we ask for swabs for people who come from abroad, but I recommend: we can no longer afford to close, we have a winter season ahead and we have to make sure that our operators can continue to work. The mountain has already paid a high price last year, we need to work and continue to show our beautiful territories also to foreign countries. [[Applause]] I would like to add another subject for the territory, since I have spoken about tourism: an amendment was adopted which creates a fund to support our forests affected by the forest. This may seem a limited problem, a small one, but let us remember that the forests and our forests, in addition to being the lungs of Europe, are also a beautiful postcard and a framework for the territories and are important natural barriers. So let's not underestimate that. Today I heard someone ask what the parliamentarians did in the Senate: we carry on the demands of the territory, because we are here to represent our citizens and highlight, each of us, the peculiarities of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u68	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this will be remembered as the budget law of the suspended time, because, if we turn behind our backs and in the recent past, we find a complicated and difficult condition, but, even if we look forward, time remains suspended, because the future, even better than the beginning of the pandemic, will prove to be once shrouded in fog. (14.46) (NENCINI followed). The draft budget law provides for excellent and good things, from relocations to the beginning of tax reform, from intervention to curb the increase in bills to the acceleration that there has been - and it is a merit of this Government and its Head - in the containment of the pandemic. I would like to remind the President of the Council and General Son for the activities that have made available to this extraordinary Italy. Yet today we need an acceleration that concerns vaccination of the youngest. Delays are no longer allowed, and I fear that the compulsory nature of the vaccine will soon have to be taken into account in order to prevent the partial emergency in which we live from becoming structural. There are two pillars that are strengthened and the draft budget law, from this point of view, makes a pair with the recovery plan: the two pillars are health and school, I would say health more than school. On school, however, investment needs to be improved and on what is considered primary (if the school is) it must definitely be valued. What is lacking and should be valued even more is every form of intervention against poverty, which is destined to widen and makes a pair with the emergency, which has not yet disappeared. We must have at heart the fate of the weakest and those who have fallen behind, for many reasons, and not least for a decisive one: if the institutions lose their ability to equalize and redistribute, what remains of parliamentary democracy goes into crisis and dangerous forms of nationalist sovereignism prevail. We already know this: mistrust generates fear and fear leads to anti-politics. We can't afford it at such a delicate stage. I would like to remind you, addressing the Government, precisely because tomorrow we will discuss and vote on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, a figure: we trust very much in the recovery plan; I remember that it is about 235 billion that can be distributed over six years and that between March 2020 and April 2021, to face in various ways and in various ways the pandemic emergency, the Government has committed a figure that is equal to about 179 billion euros in thirteen months. I say this in order to put in the right consideration and in the right frame the figure of overcoming a delicate phase, the pandemic one, the full emergency of 2020 and in part of 2021, with the many hopes that we entrust to the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. These are two figures not equivalent, but with many dots of suspension. I fear, Madam President and the Government, that there is a need to associate a much broader vision with an emerging phase. We should return to the spirit that was of our grandmothers and fathers and that dates back to the reconstruction that followed the Second World War, the post-war reconstruction. Then it was done by trusting in a Christian Italy linked to the earth, which worked from dawn to sunset and which is no longer there today. It is an Italy that must be rediscovered at least for the basic values, which are, on the one hand, those of humanitarian solidarity and, on the other hand, the creation of a republican front that aims to create a network between the institutions, starting with Parliament. On the other hand, Parliament, Madam President, is absent in a worrying way. I would like to say worse than absent, when we are discussing a budget law for which those who have some parliamentary experience - and I am among them - cannot mention any kind of precedent. No one. I remember only one number: the 2013 legislature had 83.6 percent of measures examined by one House and ratified by the other. In the 2018 legislature this figure rises from 83.6 to 91 percent; 40 out of 80 laws have had the vote of confidence, which we will have again tomorrow, even bino, one probably late in the morning or early in the afternoon, the other probably in the night or in the morning of Friday. Yet the President of this House, Senator Alberti Casellati, and the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, have repeatedly called for the return to parliamentary democracy and the logic of full representation not because Parliament itself must be central, but because Parliament itself is the place of the highest political and institutional representation and, as such, requires respect. Parliament is in a corner and it is not just a pandemic emergency problem. Let me conclude with one question: if, however, the emergency becomes structural, at least for the next two, three or four years, and I hope that this is not a prophecy, but only a reading error in the coming months, then we need to rethink the instruments to deal with it. The risk is that the irrationality and exaggeration of individualism prevail and the sum of these two factors, in the end, is the fear and absence of hope, that is, the loneliness and isolation of those who suffer the most and the weakest. It also responds in the way I tried to point. I imagine that the election of the Head of State must be a starting point and not the central point of a Parliamentary equation alone. If I may give an example, I would quote that of Einaudi, who represented the beginning of the end of a twenty-year period, a Constitution just passed, and the beginning of a Italy that started to become happily democratic. As the protection of national cork has even been mentioned in this House, Mr President, and as the European Parliament is starting to discuss its future and the future of the European Union, it would be very useful if a parliamentary session were to be held openly and chorically to discuss the future of Italy. I continue to think - and I have concluded - that the future of Italy cannot be Vatican only by virologies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u70	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today to highlight the signal given by the Democratic Party Group, the Senate and the Government to our fellow countrymen abroad. Many issues had been proposed in the examination of the draft budget law, but we had to concentrate our efforts and above all the resources only on some, which I believe are basically the signal of Italy's strong connection with the citizens, inside and outside the national borders. The Commission, of which I am honoured to be a member, had already given a strong signal of support to our communities abroad in drawing up the opinion. With the adoption of the budget law, we are giving weight to a work done in a Carthusian way and above all of enormous value, giving it concreteness. Two million euros are added to Italy's investments for our communities abroad. For the promotion of the Italian language and culture, 600,000 euros have been allocated in addition to the funding scheme, in particular for the support of the managing bodies of language and culture courses in the local schools. 800,000 euros have been allocated to contract staff at diplomatic and consular representations since 2022, therefore permanently, to adjust remuneration. Finally, for the support of the network of honorary consuls, 600,000 euros have been allocated, a further signal to the network of services for our communities, which has been under strong pressure in recent years due to the emergency health. The honorary consuls, in fact, facilitate access to important services to our compatriots who live far from the diplomatic-consolary offices. Imagine the case of Italians living in Darwin, Australia, over 3,000 kilometers from the Consulate of Brisbane. Let us get to the bottom of these three important speeches. Italy's strong interest in our out-of-border compatriots and for a greater projection of the Italy system in the world has been reiterated, thanks to the support of programmes for the dissemination of language and culture. Our country is enriched and expands in the world, also - and, I would say, above all - with the spread of its language and culture. [[Applause]] Further support goes to those who are committed every day to ensuring the services of the consular network abroad, contract employees, which represent an important part of the cross-border administration's engine. Many factors have guided our political action to approve resources for adjusting their wages. Among these, I recall the pronounced shortage of staff and the objective vacation of staff, the increase in the cost of living in the countries of the diplomatic-consular network, the tensions on the exchange markets and a sharp deterioration of living conditions, linked to the progressive deterioration of the international framework, which will reverberate in an increase of risk and discomfort factors. Results like these benefit the consular network, but above all our communities and the services they receive every day. Also with a view to guaranteeing greater services to our fellow citizens abroad, additional funds have been allocated for the network of honorary consuls, which operate especially in the countries in which the highest concentrations of Italian communities are located or in those affected by intense tourist flows, where interventions are often required to protect fellow citizens in difficulty. The presence on the spot of an honorary consul can, in many cases, be resolving several problems. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has long started a project to equip honorary consuls with biometric data collection equipment for issuing passports. This project, in addition to being welcomed by the community, has saved considerable time and cost, but has resulted in an additional burden, often heavy, for the honorary consuls. I would like to remind you that the honorary consuls receive only a contribution for the reimbursement of expenses, which in many cases has only a symbolic value, in view of the significant expenses they are required to bear. The contribution envisaged in this budgetary manoeuvre is an important achievement and a signal to those who are committed at various levels every day to supporting services to our fellow citizens around the world. As mentioned at the beginning, many would have been the issues to be dealt with, all important, but - unfortunately - it was not possible to address them. I want to remind you here of two of them, which I think are left unfinished and need special attention: the first concerns the network of Italian chambers of commerce abroad and the second the value of return tourism. I hope that in the next steps, but above all in the implementation of the projects of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, these two issues can enter into the agenda and investment programmes. The Italian chambers of commerce in the world are connected to a network, in a system of promotion rooted in the territories that constitutes a reference point for local business communities and a service support to small and medium-sized Italian enterprises. The chambers of commerce represent an institutional network able to offer first-hand information and accompanying services in the different markets and have carried out and continue to do a great job for the Italian export and to attract investments in Italy. Their role becomes even more important today, to contribute to the post-pandemic recovery. They need to relaunch their activities with renewed enthusiasm and energy, but the pandemic has unfortunately produced significant damage. In many cases they can survive only through voluntary work by their associates and the hope is that things can change in the future. It would not only be appropriate, but a commitment is needed to allocate more resources to be invested in the Italian Chambers of Commerce in the world, in the context of internationalization projects, therefore by governmental structures dealing with internationalization and investment. The tourism of the roots potentially affects an estimated basin between 60 and 80 million descendants of Italian immigrants in the world. More than 15% of international tourism in Italy is made up of people of Italian origin or descent and constitutes the so-called return tourism. In addition to visiting the great Italian cities, they often go to the villages where they were born or their parents or grandparents. It is a segment of tourism that we must take advantage of. A commitment to greater investments would be desirable, in particular by building accommodation facilities in the villages and promoting initiatives in favour of the Italian communities in the world that make known the environmental and historical beauties, the richness of traditions, the goodness of gastronomy and the healthy lifestyle of the small Italian centers. The whole Democratic Party is committed to these issues, as they are investments for the good of Italy. Together with colleagues elected in the Democratic Party to the Chamber and the coordination of the Department for Italians of the PD world, we have always been committed and will continue to work for the recognition and enhancement of the communities of Italians in the world. Mr President, before I conclude, allow me to thank the Senators of the Democratic Party Group, who have convincedly supported the achievement of these results. I am grateful to the Chairman of the Group, Senator Malpezzi, to the members of the Committees on Budgets, Foreign Affairs and others for their tireless and determined commitment. The investments of Italy that we have talked about today are the result of a teamwork that has borne fruit and that gives a positive signal to our communities; it is a further step aimed at enhancing our communities in the world. Finally, Mr President, let me wish you and all the senators and all the senators and their families a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u72	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u73	Mr President, I remember when President Draghi came to this House to ask for confidence for the new government, with the promise that he would make a great tax revolution. It would have been reform of the reforms, because it would have had to contribute finally to the growth of this country on the push of the PNRR. From there began the ballet of all the parties, which in the Commission presented everything and more, deceiving the Italians that there would finally be a real great tax revolution. We have then found ourselves in Parliament with a handful of billions, not very different from those that have always been there in recent years, even in this same parliamentary term. I'm talking about 8 billion. Since we are coming out of a pandemic that has bent our knees, which still worries about poverty that continues to bite families, we had to start redistributing from below, because this meant being really brave, and also predicting a negative tax for those who have less. On the other hand you went to the middle class, for which I have great respect, but when the resources are few you think of the last, that now they also find themselves boating with the increase of the bills. It is curious the intervention of the colleague of the League, who asks more about the bills. Yet I have heard Salvini several times announce that with the money of the cunning citizens income would pay the bills, still fooling the Italians. In fact, if you don't reach $200 million for people who swindle their citizenship income, bill increases can go up to $14 billion. You have allocated less than a third to this and you are here to please and please the Premier, who then leaves you the crumbs on which to slaughter you in the middle of the night for the renovations of the parking lot of the church near the house of the senator or a street municipal, so that you can show a power that you do not have, because you are reduced to puppets [[Applause.]] But he is smart and ruthless Dragons: he has wrapped you up for the next legislature, because perhaps none of you have had the courage to read how then you will go to intervene in debt reduction. When you wave the flag for which you can have more months to pay the debit cards, I would also like to see a surge of shields, because the State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers Garofoli for the fight against evasion, rather than a serious intervention on the great escape, has foreseen the usual great compliance. You know what that means. VAT matches and small professionals know what it means to recover an additional 12 billion. Then what will you do, ask for a pardon, to spread the installments again, when instead you are going to suffocate the very little ones again? This is written in black and white in the annexes to the Update Note to the Document of Economics and Finance (NADEF). But you're all quiet, always waving flags. You have used all the arrogance you are capable of against workers, saying that the rule on relocations would be a partial solution. In fact, it is a solution for the big ones, which still leaves the workers to the ground, establishing a good path and providing for a sanction that is even convenient for the multinationals that will be able to do nothing in those three months. To give you something they are treating you as miserable, this is the truth, but those who pay are the poor workers and their families who will find themselves on foot, but with your beautiful words, your beautiful banners. I am not saying that Parliament has become substantially useless, but it suffers a sort of collective humiliation of representation. I heard President Draghi say today that there was a debate. President Draghi looks bad. He, among the most capable, failed to present the draft budget law even in the time: he arrived with a month's delay. Then he left you here in a sort of limbo, because let's not say that the draft budget law was discussed. Nothing has been discussed at all: the meetings of the 5th Commission have been convened and constantly disconcerted and some party bastion leaders have gone in procession to the MEF just for a few tips, because that is what we are talking about. Everything else was sadly decided by the MEF. I would like to say a few more words about work, how little is being done about work and how much has also been mortified the income of citizenship. You have planned a commission and then you have not listened to it; a commission that had emphasized the navigators, who had found a desert, certainly due to the thirty-year management of the centers for the employment, used as tanks of maneuvering, good for the politics, but basically unable to work. Well, you're sending them home, with four months of extension, and by the way, in the meantime you've expanded the jerseys of the Ministries, where you're hiring and nominating everything and more: from external experts to officials. You've spread the jerseys of everything. Brunette hires whoever she wants, with her book, while the navigators had also done a selective test, not even very simple. You're sending these away, so Brunetta makes her hires. You are abandoning to themselves that fragile part of citizens' income recipients, who would need the public, the only one able to accompany them towards a true integration into the world of work, because it was more convenient to give the task to the temporary agencies, who will certainly not, rightly and legitimately, be able to deal with that band, equal to a third of the perceptors, who could finally go to work. You did not even want to look at the amendments, saying: we have extended them for four months. If they want to, that's it, otherwise they'd go to that country. That's the juice of the speech. And it is truly mortifying that a government of national unity, a government that should really act for the good of the country, has not taken certain situations to heart. I just want to remember one aspect. Many of you are pleased with this great budget law. But go and look at the others. What is revolutionary about this budget law? There is nothing that will transform, that will revolutionize the lives of the poor people. I remember the league had the covers for 40-50 billion. There are statements by the current Minister Garavaglia, who said he kept them hidden, otherwise they would have copied them. Well, it's time to get them out, because the bills are there on the bedside table and the Italians will have serious difficulties. Brunetta, too, had 50-60 billion ready in the drawer to make the flat tax: take out these covers, because people out there do not care highly about the President of the Republic, your party dynamics, appointments... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u74	Senator Lezzi, I need to interrupt and call you back. [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]] No, now you listen to me, also because your microphone is off, Senator Lezzi. Meanwhile, the Presidency formally recalls it. I don't think you understand, so you need me to explain. I did not interrupt him during all his speech, despite the bright tones, which are part of the political controversy. But you cannot refer to the Head of State, the President of the Republic, in the tones you used. Therefore, this is a formal reminder. [[Applause]] You can now continue and finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u75	Mr President, I was addressing the parties which, at the moment, rather than thinking about the country's urgency, have thought of anything else. Now I wish you all the best. Almost all of you can go and spend the 100,000 euros, the 10,000 euros or the 15,000 euros on the territory, to finally say: did you see? I'm a powerful senator! I brought the money. I parked the church under the house. Bravo! Meanwhile, however, the Italians will have more urgency and you are again deceiving them, without solving absolutely nothing, always thinking and exclusively about your own affairs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u77	Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I shall now come to the subject. Which Italy - it has been asked - we think for the next decades? It has been discussed in Parliament; we are complaining, we have reasons and I believe that in the coming months there will be a debate on this development of the democratic and representative situation. Parties and politics must discuss this. The energy and environmental issue, though real and serious - we are already late in years and decades - which is transformed into ecological transition, will have to be gradual and compatible with the real situation and will have to be studied thoroughly because it is not said, for example, that the electric is the solution. Are we going to be a manufacturing nation in the future, where tax and bureaucracy allow us to produce wealth or are we just the nation - and I am going to summarize - of mandolin? Will we defend our national productions at all costs, even compared to Europe, when it attacks us on wine, houses or other things? The Bruno Leoni Institute, an illustrious centre of thought in Turin, said that we are facing the decades-long productive stagnation of Italy. We are faced with the problem of inflation which, up to certain limits, is beneficial, but beyond it must be controlled, otherwise it is dangerous for interest and savings. We are faced with the consequences of the pandemic which, as well as from a health point of view, caused what we know about prices and energy. The problem of energy comes from no to nuclear power stations. We have decided on fiscal reform, which is a first step, but which is unfortunately done for a few billion, it has been said, but it is done in debt and debt, nothing is resolved, neither for families, nor for companies, nor for the State. Budgetary constraints have been cut. The deficit-to-GDP ratio this year is 9.8%, while it is forecast for 2022 in budget law at 5.6%; the total debt is 2,700 billion (a year ago we were talking about 2,350-2,400 billion) and there are other billions, including those of the PNRR, that will be added to this massive amount. There are a few issues to which I would just like to mention, Mr Undersecretary, for you to accept, and I know that I am speaking to the person who will take them into account. We have, for example, Article 191 of the original text - we will see then in the maxi amendment - on the revaluation of goods, which concerns only trademarks and goodwill; there is no provision for the revaluation of real estate and equity, but, as has always been done, another provision can be made for individuals and companies of persons. Another very important issue is the banking moratories that expire: they have been tabled on this of the amendments, which I hope have been transposed, with the forecast of an extension of the moratorium on bank credits until 30 June in the field of road haulage, which mourns foreign competition or at least of those who have their headquarters in Romania. We think of solving everything with the smart working that up to 3 or 5 percent - and I say percentages to nose - can be useful and workable, but beyond it creates problems to the system of procedure of the firms and, above all, of the public administration. We have extended the debitory folders, with an interesting mechanism, but the basic concept is: who doesn't pay is not an evader or one who wants to be smart, but it is someone who can't and then the delay from the Covid is ultra-annual and will probably be reviewed. There would be many other issues, including general and international policy, which may concern the budget, because in the end they become monetary expression. As far as the flows of immigrants are concerned, for example, there are some 81,000; I would remove two zeros because, if it is true that we must integrate people and respect, this can be done at doses that can be easily approved. Europe, as has already been said, opposes us on so many things and we really need to beat our fists. The agreement with France - it is my cry of pain in this House - is dangerous, because the week after the Macron agreement went to the United Arab Emirates and made a contract of about 20 billion helicopters, subtracting it from national companies. A separate maneuver - a small maneuver - will probably be necessary for the issue of the Mount of the Paschi. I don't put it in politics, but it's a matter of numbers. The 110% bonus was a good intuition, in some way correct compared to the initial forecasts of Article 9, but it started on the wrong assumptions. A calculation has been made on potential interventions in Italy: 0.7% of them have been found and the cost has been 18 billion euros. If, for example, 7% were to result, there would be a cash default. So there was something that didn't add up from the beginning. Now this instrument must be continued, as provided for in the amendments made by the Government, but it must somehow be traced back to percentages that are more suited to the economy. In conclusion, Mr President, there are also interesting amendments and rules. I am thinking, for example, of Article 166 and the following, which provide for contributions for bridges and viaducts, a very important issue, and then there is the maintenance of schools and the theme of urban regeneration. I also remember Article 136, which I want to defend, with which the fund for the price review of public contracts has been refinanced with EUR 100 million - in addition to the 34 already allocated - but which needs to be financed in a stronger and simpler way. I would also remind you of Articles 139 and 140, which contain funding for the Provinces of Municipalities. Finally, I would like to mention Article 172 on which I proposed an amendment, which I hope will be accepted, in order to amend the single text of the laws on local authorities, Legislative Decree No 267 of 2000, as regards the issue of municipal secretaries, which I have already mentioned in this House. This is an important issue, which concerns the administrative life, the policy of our countries and good governance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u78	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u79	Mr President, it is our job to highlight the positive aspects contained in the economic manoeuvre. Firstly, we would like to mention the eight billion euros that the Government has made available to reduce Italian taxes. [[Applause]] Certainly the reform of the Irpef cannot be said to be epochal, but it incorporates important requirements, that we have highlighted and that, at least as League, we have always emphasized: first the remodulation of the echelons and, secondly, the reduction of the rates, just to try to help the middle class, that is what in recent years has suffered the greatest penalties and that has continued to suffer them because of the Covid. That was the goal, which was absolutely centered. However, the reduction of taxes concerns all the scales: we know that up to 12,000 euros of income the Irpef does not pay and therefore low incomes already benefit from some facilities. From the 12,000 euros to rise, the remodulation of the rates, with the intervention on the deductions and the absorption of the Renzi bonus, makes sure that all Italians will have a reduction of the taxes. Whoever more and who less, on a progressive level, because this is written in our Constitution, everyone will have this reduction. This is a clear and clear result. The other result we particularly care about, because it is a historic battle of the League, is finally having achieved the abolition of IRAP for a million individual companies, professionals and VAT matches, on which we have insisted very much. I repeat: one million individuals, including individual companies, individuals and VAT consignments, will enjoy the abolition of IRAP. It is therefore the first time that we have heard not only about the abolition of the IRAP, but that we really do. [[Applause]] If we add this million individual and professional companies to the two million that benefited from the mini flat tax, introduced when the League was in government at the beginning of the legislature, we reach 3 million VAT matches, which had been forgotten for years by the Italian State. Thanks to the intervention of the League today they finally benefit from a reduction in taxes. [[Applause]] They will not be epochal results, but - forgive me if we always resort to pragmatism - they are concrete and tangible results that no one can deny. That is not all, however, because the reduction of taxes is an important and fundamental package in this maneuver, but there have also been other interventions that we consider decisive: EUR 100 million allocated to tourism, given all the difficulties of this moment because of Covid, EUR 50 million for the automotive sector to try to help our companies and our producers. They are the ones who must be helped; we need not only a policy linked to incentives for cars, but a policy aimed at small businesses. We are full of third parties; there is the world of dealers that is in great difficulty and for them we have obtained an important fund. Let us not forget the exemption even if only for three months - we hope it will be extended - the payment of the tax for the occupation of public spaces and areas (TOSAP) for the many shops, especially bars and restaurants, that have been closed during the Covid period and that have been in great difficulty. This is a certain result and shared by all political forces. It is a result we have achieved and we must be proud of it. [[Applause]] I could also mention other important issues such as the EUR 27 million increase in the autism fund. That is what our Minister, Mr Stefani, specifically asked us to do because policies to help people with disabilities are among our priorities. We have achieved this result. Of course, more could be done, but it is an important result. We can't forget the hiring of law enforcement. If the League had not intervened - let us be clear - Minister Lamorgese would not have bothered to increase the staff. It is a battle done by Undersecretary Molteni and Salvini in the first place. [[Applause]] If today we have recruitment of Forces of Order together with legal protection, it is only and exclusively due to the battle and commitment of the League. We could mention many other interventions such as the one on fragile workers and the intervention for the glassworks of Murano. There is the theme of support with 30 million of the white meat chain. In this case the issue is agriculture and it concerns our farmers. They are fundamental results, but it is certainly not enough. There's the issue of the bills, which someone evoked. This increase in bills must be sterilized. In the meantime, the government has taken 3.8 billion, which is no small amount. We need more; we are the first to call up a table that puts additional resources in place, because there are many companies that risk closing down and endangering production. They even have to stop because energy, gas and electricity cost too much. They are therefore forced to go in that direction, but they must be helped, especially taking into account the sectors most affected. We used to mention the glassworks of Murano that go in this direction. If we want these costs not to increase and stabilize, we must understand that the energy transition must be done gradually and intelligently. Otherwise we will be at the head of a train, on the locomotive of a train that is going to crash against a wall, because it will have very high costs in terms of jobs and in social terms for the whole population. So environmental protection does, but "gretinism" doesn't. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u80	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are living in a complicated historical phase, which sees us all engaged in the difficult action to combat the pandemic, but at the same time is continuing to assert a strong demand for public goods and public actions covering issues such as the environment, sustainable development, social protection and work. These public assets and public actions will only be supported by massive public investments, as is emerging in Europe after the Next generation EU, whose effects will give enormous benefit to Italy thanks to the initiative and efforts of the Government Count II, which obtained it a year ago. And it is still thanks to that Government, the intuition and perseverance of the 5 Star Movement that today we can emphasize the extension and strengthening of a real revolution such as the superbonus 110% for construction. [[Applause]] This is an innovative measure based on the mechanism of the invoice discount and the transferability of tax credits, introduced precisely by the Government Count II in May 2020, in full pandemic. I would also like to remind you that this government, with the constant input of the 5 Star Movement, has not only been able to develop a network of protection around the economic and social fabric of the country during the pandemic, but also had the strength and foresight to aim immediately on the relaunch of the country, putting in place innovative measures that in a few months have explained their beneficial effects. From ANCE to CRESME, passing through ENEA, Unioncamere, business associations, professional orders (and I could continue, because the list is really long): in the last year there is practically no economic observer who has not certified the great effects of the superbonus on the growth of Italian and European GDP, on the generation of new jobs, on the opening of yards and on the achievement of goals of energy saving and environmental protection. Well, thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars today we are able to extend and strengthen the superbonus. Starting from the original text of the budget law we have extended the superbonus to 2023 on condominiums and housing; the parliamentary changes that we have demanded loudly and obtained will extend it throughout 2022 for the benefit of single-family houses. We have therefore deleted the previous and wrong prediction of an ISEE roof, which would discriminate against citizens and would have been completely inconsistent with the objectives of the superbonus, which are those of energy efficiency and anti-seismic safety. As we have abolished the limit, previously foreseen, referring to the main house (so it can be done also for the second houses), as well as the limit of the presentation of an CILA, even retroactive. We deleted all this simply because it was wrong. Another very important change concerns the extension until 2025 of the superbonus 110 percent for anti-seismic interventions in areas that have been affected by seismic events from 2009 onwards (so the earthquakes that have affected our Italian regions since 2009 onwards). In addition, we extend and extend the measure of the superbonus to interventions to reduce architectural barriers, photovoltaic systems and electric charging columns, including buildings owned by ONLUS and RSA. This measure, which distinguishes so much this budget law, shows how much the Movimento 5 Stars is strongly deployed in defense of one of the most precious assets for the Italians: the house. Precisely through this measure, the superbonus, we go to protect it, to improve it, and ultimately we increase its value, so we increase the wealth of Italian families. For these reasons the superbonus has become a real model; we immediately supported it from the 5 Star Movimento, attracting in some cases the sarcasm of the usual solans of politics and economy - which, to be honest, never do one - but this happens to all innovators, as we believe we are. Now, after the results that have been certified, which I mentioned earlier, virtually everyone supports this, including the Vice-President of the European Commission, Frans Timmermans, and the Energy Commissioner, Simpson, who emphasised the effects of this measure before the European Parliament. The intuition of the 5 Star Movimento will not stop here; the mechanism of the discount in invoice and the transfer of the credit, true reason of the success of the superbonus and the explosion of the use of the other building bonuses, represents an innovation that lends itself to being extended also to other tax credits, like those tied to our plan Transition 4.0 that concerns the productive field, also confirmed in law of budget and rendered three years [[Applause.]] This extension is therefore another major liquidity-providing operation in the economic system. The maneuver is also important for another important operation, that is the decrease of the Irpef, which gives a necessary signal to that middle class that has always punctually paid most of the taxes, without so far ever having a breath of oxygen. At the same time we are able to give an important signal even to the lower classes, especially in the combined arrangement of the reform of the Irpef and the decontribution up to 35,000 euros of income, the single allowance for the children and the cut to the tax wedge on the low incomes (the latter operated last year by the Government Count 2). This draft also includes the historic zeroing of IRAP for more than 800,000 VAT matches, representing more than 40% of the whole audience: operation - this - which has been expected and invoked for years, and it is very important because it preludes the definitive absorption of IRAP into a single corporate tax, which is one of the objectives of the tax delegation before Parliament. I'm really getting to the bottom of this, Mr. President. We have achieved an extra billion for citizenship income, since during the pandemic it helped millions of Italians, the most fragile and helpless ones, children, the disabled, the elderly, who would have been unprotected without the help of the citizenship income and would have paid a very high price to the crisis. And to think that several political leaders, also in this House, have tried instrumentally to evoke its abolition or a cut in resources dedicated to it, citing false data, systematically denied by the Finance Guard, the INPS or the ANPAL. [[Applause]] I quote only a figure from the ANPAL whose representatives have come to tell us here in Parliament that 40% - I stress - of income recipients, those skilled at work have signed a contract of employment; therefore, other than idle, other than state methadone or the vulgarity that has been said. I'll finish. On all these issues that affect the living flesh of Italian citizens the Movement is there and will always be there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u82	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u83	Mr President, I will give a brief reply to the speeches which have been copious and full of ideas for a draft budget law which has certainly accepted many requests from the senators and fellow senators. Perhaps it would have been better to do more, but we know that the most is always linked to the resources available in order to be able to put in place the interventions. I am happy that, for example, Mrs Fregolent mentioned an important issue such as disability: an issue on which we have focused a great deal through the analysis of the requests received by my fellow senators and senators because we have really managed to allocate excellent resources, for example, for autism, which has really given us satisfaction, as I hope will give a lot of satisfaction to the people who need it most. At the same time, I am pleased that my colleague Fourthly, he stressed the need to do more for the environment. I appreciate that this need has been mentioned, but I am less pleased that we have managed to do very little, as on other occasions, for the environmental side. I am referring to this because the resources available have already been provided for in the draft budget law: for example, there are 150 million available for a fund for environmental sustainability, which will also allow our industries to convert and think of a better future through a new strategy linked to new production cycles and new systems for the realization of goods and services. This is very important. Surely more needs to be done to be able to increase these resources and give more opportunities to the companies that need to be converted. We will do a great deal about this, but it must be acknowledged - and my colleague has done well. Fourthly, as far as sustainability and biodiversity are concerned, there is still a great deal to be done. Above all, there is much to be done about the hydrogeological failure. In this regard it is worth appreciating the effort of the Movimento 5 Stars aimed at allocating resources, minimal but important, to carry on the realization of the geological charter of Italy, which is certainly one of the basic factors to succeed in doing more, to improve the Italian hydrogeological structure and avoid the catastrophes that copiously happen year after year. Mr Vitali reminded us of a very important issue and that unfortunately every measure tries to get approved without succeeding: it is a matter of allowing companies to participate in the tenders even if they have small disputes in progress with the tax. Such disputes could be remedied with the participation in the competition that can be an advantage for the company: I refer to the resources of which the company will be in possession during the works. In my opinion, this is something that can be done and I really hope that it will be done as soon as possible, because we can even settle a debt with the tax authorities with the same resources that we have acquired during the execution of a contract. I hope that this measure can be adopted as soon as possible. Mr Fenu made an important reference to the tax matters dealt with in the budget law. It is worth remembering that a great deal has been done to reduce taxes on citizens. It will certainly be possible to do much more by improving the relationship between tax and citizens, through computer science, digitalization, a more direct and faster relationship with tax. For example, already being able to spend tax credits resources immediately and quickly could be an advantage for citizens: a tax portfolio in which to be able to set aside and spend the resources allocated to tax contributions quickly and quickly. We hope that this will soon become a reality; we are very confident. Mrs Ronzulli reminded us of the importance of psychological support in schools. There is certainly a lot to be done; we have given a concrete signal and we think we can still do more. My colleague, Mr Jacob, reminded us of the small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, the relationship that our companies have and must improve with foreign trade. It has represented the important role of the chambers of foreign trade that we often almost forget, devoting perhaps little attention to them. Being able to make sure that our companies manage to sell more, to export more and to make Italy's presence more strong abroad is possible through the foreign chambers of commerce, which - we know very well - are not public bodies, but helping them means helping all Italian companies. Mr Perosino reminded us of the problems with public debt: we must certainly do much more, we know very well, but we do so through those measures, small or large, that help our country to grow. In the draft budget law there are certainly so many of these measures, which I think should all be appreciated. We should continue on this path. I am very pleased with something we have managed to achieve. The Government had thought, in the draft budget law, also to increase, as I said before, the renewal of Italian companies through various measures, including the storage of CO2. Thanks to the intervention not only of the 5-star Movimento, but above all thanks to an amendment tabled by Liberi and Equal, we managed to make it clear that this perhaps did not have to be done. We have managed to remove this rule from the measure and we are pleased that the resources allocated to environmental sustainability have put aside some technologies, which perhaps it was correct to avoid. I do not extend any further, but I am satisfied with the work done and I thank again all those who participated in it, starting with the offices, colleagues and the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u84	I call the rapporteur, Senator Rivolta.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u85	It turns out to be a particularly happy day for her, being her birthday. I never do, but since you intervened, I make an exception for you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u86	Thank you, President. Indeed, for some years now I have been spending my birthday in the midst of the budget law. I would also like to make a few comments, after listening to the speeches in general, and I would like to focus in particular on one aspect which was reiterated by President Romeo, but which is important. We would like there to be much more order in dealing with all the emergencies, including those related to the Covid-19. In fact, we must control everything and more: the moments of assembly, the demonstrations, but this cannot be done if we do not assume the Forces of Order. One is outraged at crimes and disorders, but in the end, those who have to intervene are always the Forces of Order. It is a very important signal that forces of the order of all sectors will be employed: policemen, carabinieri, financiers and even prison police officers. We must not forget, in fact, the conditions of those who work in prisons too; there is not only the problem of overcrowding, which we know to be a shameful thing, but also the working conditions of prison police officers, few and with massacred shifts. This is an absolutely positive fact, because we have to realise that these are human resources that are a fundamental tool in many different areas. It is therefore a good measure. I liked the intervention of Senator Faggi, who highlighted one important aspect: in this long period of pandemics, closures, reopenings and great difficulties, the successive governments found themselves having to act very quickly. This has meant that the attitude, now normal, of going forward only to decree-laws, has undergone a further acceleration linked to the emergency. This has objectively mortified parliamentary work and has done well for Senator Faggi to remember that instead Parliament, which is also made up of so many competences, intelligences and in-depth knowledge of territorial realities, is a wealth for the Government and not only a necessary passage. I think this should make all of us reflect, but also the members of the government. Unfortunately, due to the failure of the PNRR in the House, we found ourselves working very quickly; a haste that clearly affected also the members of the government who had to follow the measures, both the PNRR and the budget law. Everything was further compressed. I think that we can work in this way once, in a situation of extreme emergency. But if it becomes regularity, you risk making mistakes. In fact, there are questions on which you have to find the time to reflect, and not an infinite time, but the time to be able to do some insights precisely in order to see the direction in which you want to go together. I would like everyone to think about this. There has been talk of tourism; for some there is too much money for tourism. I think there is just one reason: the whole tourism industry, in all its facets, is one of the most important activities in our country, which really gives work to many people, in the various roles. As I said a few days ago, it is something that only we in Italy have in this mode. It has to be arranged. But it is such a wealth that we must try to make the whole world of tourism as visible, as efficient as possible and as accessible as possible. That is, we really need to improve the country, but above all we need to know how to communicate it, because the potential is so high that we can really become the country of reference of the whole world. Everyone must have a desire to plan a holiday in our country for the natural beauty, for the richness of the artistic heritage of our cities, because it is inclusive, for all facets, for sports and cultural events. That's what we have to do. Too often tourism in our country has been treated as a small thing. It is a good thing that there is now a Ministry of Tourism. We must tackle this problem with the idea of making it a sector not only that contains everything, but where there is planning and efficiency in individual interventions. It is a challenge that I consider very important. I was therefore struck by the intervention of those who spoke of tourism treasures and said that there is only tourism, and it is bad. As President Pesco has already said, in the so-called bottom, in the 150 million there is tourism, the 'automotive, another of the great themes, and there are also the workers of the show. The latter sector suffered an important stop during the pandemic, but it is of great cultural importance, for the development of the critical sense of people, it is a time of fun. It is an area where there is so much precariousness just as it is structured. It is therefore okay that there is a fund from which many interventions must emerge that must affect the whole territory of our country and develop its effects. It seemed right to emphasize the attention to the issues related to the discomfort of people and young people and the interventions that have been made on the school. I have honestly found some interventions on differentiated autonomy a little out of place, which perhaps were not relevant at the moment. However - as I said before - listening to speeches that do not seem to us to be perfectly focused is part of the debate that must take place in this House and it is a moment of growth. I am glad that I have had this experience with my fellow rapporteurs. I thank the Government, Vice Minister Castelli, tireless and always present, and wish you all the best for everything that will come in the coming months starting from Christmas. I also thank the undersecretaries Guerra, Sartore and Freni, last in order of appearance, as well as all the staff of the Ministry of Economics and Finance and of the State Accounting, who participated in this budgetary session. I do not forget, of course, our offices of the Senate and the 5th Commission, as well as all the staff and parliamentary assistants who have accompanied our long days and also the nights and have attended endless sessions. Thank you all. I hope that the fruits that will come thanks to the choices made can really help - and I am convinced that they will help - families, businesses and the country in general. Much remains to be done, but the important thing is to become aware of and better achieve the objectives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u87	I call the rapporteur, Senator Errani.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u88	Mr President, many of my colleagues and the rapporteurs themselves have pointed out the problem of the timing, which I will not go back to, because it has been clearly said. I want to say something, though. Senator Malan said we passed all the records, but we didn't. I remember that the first budget law of this parliamentary term did not have the rapporteurs, because the maxi amendment arrived about an hour and a half before the vote. I would like to remind you that we have done a job recognising the sense of building a common commitment between the majority and the minority. So I'm glad. Some speeches today have spoken of tips and more. As far as I am concerned, I would like it to be written and carved into the rock that there is no room in the budget law for specific, localistic interventions. However, those 600 million - and I would not wish to be confused about this - of resources for Members of Parliament have had important destinations, such as, for example, recruitment to the law enforcement agencies, the police and the fire department. That fund served, in agreement with the Government, to give a strategic response. And every time I hear a party totally claim that result, I'm happy, because it means that we did a great job of synthesis together. If the superbonus does not have the constraints that were foreseen in the budget law, it is because the most significant choice we made with parliamentary resources, together and in agreement with the Government. If we have solved the problem of ATA staff for school and have recognised a minimum of resources to ensure that teachers are also equalized, in wage levels, to the rest of the public administration, it is because we have used the resources of the parliamentary fund and we have done so together. It is okay to put the shields on the chest - politics also has this characteristic - but, when we do a common job, to recognize it is an element of value for the whole and for the Assembly itself. Politics is never done on its own: politics must always have a Community vision, which is a great element of value. I now turn to my colleagues in the Alternative, and I would like to focus on the allocation of resources for the non-self-sufficiency fund, avoiding confusion with differentiated autonomy, which is another issue and which cannot and must not be within the budget law. The fact that, for the first time in the budgetary manoeuvre, there are essential levels of assistance is a merit which, first and foremost, we must acknowledge to the Government because it has never been done. Now, by challenging us at the top - not at the bottom - we have to build the relative path of realization. There are important things in this maneuver, which are the result of parliamentary work. We read the newspapers and the next day we come to the House to say that it is okay, but we could do even more in the right direction. But that is so much that we have done and we must continue on. I want to give an answer on the question of the third sector posed by a colleague of Brothers of Italy. There is an intervention which is not decisive, but which nevertheless gives the possibility of avoiding the payment of VAT which, with a very recent measure, in relation to an emergency - a matter of relations with the European Union - had been introduced. On the third sector, we should reorder the law, which presents problems and needs to be reviewed in general. I'd like if we could discuss this. However, I do not think that this measure is as good as possible, because there are issues that we have not dealt with and which have to be dealt with. One of these, Mr Floris, is the issue of Air Italy, on which I would like the whole House to express a choral call to the Government. It is unfair and not acceptable that all companies, and not only Alitalia, but also Blue Panorama, Emirates, also Norwegian and Air Italy have had the integration fund for 2022. We couldn't do that here, colleague Floris. The Group to which I belong had also tabled an amendment to this effect, but we could not do so. This House, too, with today's debate, can give a signal: a strong call must come to the Government for an answer. We cannot leave these workers without any shock absorber, because it is not fair and it is not balanced. There are other issues. Even at work - for example - we did something. However, despite our efforts and the fact that we have sought a rule, discontinuous workers in this country are still in a critical situation. Then there are those 150 million that are a fund for emergencies, that today do not have defined destinations and concern tourism, automotive - as Senator Verducci said and is right - the workers of entertainment, art and culture are among the figures that in this country have received less also in the emergency Covid and require more. We must start working on this, so that we do not always have someone in this House to explain to us what the reality of the country is. We are not disconnected: we know what the reality of the country is, or rather, we should know it. We find a way to have a real debate on these issues and emergencies, to find summaries to propose to the Government. I think this should be our role. As I conclude, among the important things we have done, there is one for health which I hope will receive applause from the whole House and from all the groups. I refer, that is, to the fact that it is clear in primary rule that the payback must be paid entirely, without discounts, because for the period 2019-2020 it is worth more than 2.3 billion, which are fundamental to withstand the heavy impact created by Covid. We have made another measure to respond to those issues, colleagues, and there is no one here to put the shield in the chest. See the difference? We have made a measure which will enable the regions to receive at least 800 million from the time the budget is published in the Official Journal. It is that part of the payback of 2019, today blocked to the Ministry of the economy for the risk of eventual refunds against sentences - in this period, fortunately, they are all won by the Regions - that will be distributed to the Regions in order to allow them to close 2021 and thus avoid that they go back to plan and increase taxes. These are important measures which, with all our difficulties, we have managed to implement. In conclusion, I say we did it together. We have different positions, and we'd love to. Fortunately, in the face of the crisis of democracy that we are experiencing, we have done it together. We recognize in a community way that politics does something useful for the country. I thank Deputy Minister Castelli, undersecretary Guerra, Sartori, Freni and all those who have worked with us, the technicians, the many vilified technicians. And I want to say that, because there are vulgates that we should deny. In one and a half years, the management of the MEF and the Accounting Office has worked out more than five maneuvers, which has led to problems. The government should have made another choice for me. I hope you will listen to Mr D'Incà, whom I thank for the work he has done. However, we should not have put together all the measures that have been put in place. Those leaders, however, have worked 24 hours a day on thousands of amendments, even on those of which they are then found to be uncovered. Let's say these things and put them on the record, so we explain that we understand them. And I tell my colleagues at Movimento 5 Stars that everyone has had to face similar problems. I conclude by saying that it was a really great job. Now let's value it for what it is, without talking about miracles, because no one has done miracles, and let's take care of what we haven't solved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u89	The minority rapporteur, Senator Calandrini, gave up his reply. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u90	Mr President, since this morning's debate, the most heartfelt cry is certainly that of the compression of time. It is what hurts this House most, the whole Parliament and the Government itself, which has been forced to cut down so much time. I agree with the rapporteur, Mrs Rivolta. The wealth of Parliament and the members of the Commission is the only resource that allows us to reach the last Municipality, the last territory of this country, and that is what allows us to make choices, one way or another, but in the correct way. Perhaps the record was to have operated, yes, in a few days, no more than four, five days, but also with such a large majority, a majority that perhaps this Republic has never seen, and that has forced the same majority to widen even more, even to oppositions, in a greater effort than itself and greater than the ideologies of the individual parties, which also helped the Government to collaborate in some very important matches. Without this cooperation, some resources would never have been enough. So, we did it together, each with its own share of resources available. I hope this is the last maneuver with the Covid-19 emergency. We all lived it like this, hoping that this would be the wish. And we also hope that this is the last way to plan, thinking that in the future there can be a return to the economic and social normality of the country, without having to intervene emergency and with emergency rules, which today have the need to be reprogrammed in a normal also from the normative point of view. This was another struggle: do I make an emergency rule or do I make a structural rule? How many times have we wondered about this in the last few weeks? The slowdown is also due to the fact that achieving the target of the 51 PNRR objectives was difficult. But it has been achieved and achieved with the urgent decree, which has even more compressed all those who are the times of Parliament. We have once again worked with a method that we have seen for a few years, that of common themes, which has allowed the majority to put together resources that it would not have had separately. This was not the case once: Parliament's resources were being taken and Members were dividing them. To those who talk about "marchette" this mechanism proves that it is not so. The majority put together almost 80% of the resources they had: I think of the superbonus, the sysmabonus and the school, which had remained largely outside, supported even by other resources of the government, who discussed in the examination of the maneuver in order to do so. I am also thinking of non-secondary funds for the health sector: those for fibromyalgia, those for eating disorders, which Parliament is concerned about when it comes to remembering how many people are affected every day. I am also thinking of the funds for autism and bullying. In short, I am thinking of all those funds that some might consider secondary and which, on the other hand, give answers to a Parliament, which is so compressed, but which knows very well that a fund of 5 million also makes a difference. It was a complicated job and we certainly wanted to do more. However, I believe that there are many rules that have been adopted, even numerically. The offices have supported us and have really done so with all the desire to support the effort of the state machine. That's how it was every day. It wasn't easy. Maybe if Christmas hadn't come, it would have taken us a few more days, but it couldn't have been otherwise. I really hope that this will be the last maneuver approved in the middle of the pandemic by Covid-19 and that the next one will be even more of a design, vision and multi-annual investment maneuver. In thanking all the Groups, both by majority and by opposition, and in thanking the choices of the themes that were placed to the Government with the commitment to resolve them, because they were necessary, I wish everyone good work and good holidays. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u91	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. As established by the Conference of Leaders, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-390.ana.u93	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 23 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.19 a.m.
