ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 15 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 15 April 2021 Dear President, I inform the Lordship Yours that with decrees of the President of the Republic today, adopted on my proposal, after approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 10 (3) of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, of the delegation of functions conferred by the Minister of Economic Development, has been assigned the title of Deputy Minister to the Subsecretaries of State at the same Dicastery sen. Gilberto PICHETTO FRATIN and Dr. Alessandra TODDE. F.to Mario Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u7	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I rise at the beginning of the sitting to express the greatest concern about what is happening to the Russian opponent Alexei Navalny, whose health conditions have worsened over the weekend. I remember that last August he was a victim of poisoning and then returned to Russia in January to serve the sentence of just over two years. There is, however, an appeal pending at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, in which the Russian dissident reports repeated episodes of ill-treatment, deprivation of sleep, malnutrition and lack of access to medical care. The situation concerns all the European Chancellors and the United States of America, who have spoken very strongly, saying that if something happens to Alexei Navalny, there will be consequences. Yesterday there was a meeting between the European Foreign Ministers, who not only expressed concern, but called for immediate access to medical care. I remember that Alexei Navalny is locked up in a penal colony 200 kilometers from Moscow, in a hospital ward, but only lawyers can communicate; his doctors can't follow him as they should, since he suffered a poisoning that almost cost him his life. I think it is appropriate to intervene, in the face of a risk of violation of the most basic human rights, such as access to medical care, and for human treatment within Russian prisons to a figure that has become a symbol. Well, in the face of a symbol, as regards the protection of human rights, I think it is right that not only the European Chancellors and Foreign Ministers, as they did yesterday with the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policies Borrell, should say very clearly that access to treatment should be granted to Navalny, but also that this Parliament should be able to express today a very strong message in support of him, so that he can have access to treatment, so that Russia can finally respond to the notification of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, in which she is asked to explain precisely the need to give access to treatment, and if it is not necessary to release him to allow him to go to a hospital, to a quality health facility that can cure him, taking into account the fact that he has been poisoned. I thought it was right to draw Parliament's attention so that we could also give voice to Members of Parliament and not just to the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u10	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, it is not acceptable for an opposition man to be deprived of his freedom and imprisoned and even less tolerable is the fact that he is precluded from exercising a primary right such as that of health. It is for this reason that the Italia Viva Group also joins the call for Russia to proceed to the release of Alexei Navalny, who in the first place guarantees him the necessary care and above all that he leaves free access to his doctors of trust. Let us take up the words of the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policies Borrell and the White House, from where the warning came that whatever should happen to Alexei Navalny would be regarded by the West as the responsibility of the Russian authorities. Italy Viva, as a political and parliamentary force, joins the request that the protection of Alexei Navalny's health be speeded up. The fact that he was transferred to the military hospital is not a sufficient guarantee. Among other things, we are also very concerned about the massive deployment of Russian troops on the border with Ukraine, so we believe that the efforts of the authorities - first of all the European Union - must continue, as confirmed at yesterday's meeting of Foreign Ministers, so that the dialogue with Russia continues, but that this does not preclude the protection of rights, in particular of the Navalny opponent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u13	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement is also concerned about the health conditions of Alexei Navalny, who is currently hospitalized in a Russian penal colony. For our political strength, the defence of human rights is an essential value, such as the defence of civil rights and democratic freedoms. Dissent is a value that cannot be suffocated in any way, always and everywhere. According to a recent Amnesty International report, there are many countries where human rights violations are systematic. Unfortunately, this also happens in the West, in our free world. I quote only the emblematic case of Julian Assange, treated worse than a dissident, as a traitor, and reduced to death not because of his form of protest, but because of the conditions of detention to which he was subjected in the United Kingdom. [[Applause]] Human rights must be defended as an absolute value and not according to the country in which they are violated and above all must not be exploited for political purposes, all the more so when this threatens to aggravate an already very worrying and dangerous situation of tension, such as the one that is mounting in Ukraine, where we risk a new war at the gates of Europe. We are sure that Farnesina will work in the relevant fora to reaffirm the importance of respect for human rights and civil rights in the world, in Russia and wherever they are violated. Our political strength, the 5 Star Movement, expresses its closeness to Navalny and all the dissidents in prison and the political prisoners who suffer to carry their ideas forward. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1721-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Stefano, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 31 March the House approved the draft law of the European delegation 2019-2020, which was hesitated at first reading by this House on 29 October. The 14th Commission has drawn up a timetable for the text and, once it has received the required opinions, approved it without further amendments on 14 April. I would point out that no amendments or agendas have been tabled, not least because the House has changed the Senate text to one point, including in Annex A the European Directive No 343 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present in criminal proceedings. I recall that Annex A lists the directives that the Government is delegated to transpose, pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 1, of the draft law, that it delegates to the Government for the transposition of the directives and the implementation of the acts of the European Union. The draft law we adopted in the Commission consists of 29 articles, which contain delegation provisions concerning the transposition of 39 European directives, included in Annex A, and the adaptation of national legislation to 16 European regulations. It also contains specific guiding principles and criteria for the exercise of the delegation of 18 directives. With regard to the inclusion in Annex A of Directive No. 343 of 2016 (we speak of presumption of innocence), which has the transposition deadline of 1 April 2018, it should be recalled that the delegation for the implementation of the Directive had already been included in Law No. 163 of 25 October 2017. This delegation, however, has never been exercised by the Italian Government, since, following a reconnaissance carried out, it has proved that our internal system is already fully in conformity with the substantive content and rights laid down in the directive itself. It was therefore decided not to proceed with transposition, informing the European Commission before the deadline of 1 April 2018. However, despite the expiry of the deadline, the European Commission has not decided to open any infringement proceedings against the Italian State for failure to transpose or subsequently for breach of the deadline. It should be remembered that the directive I am talking about, on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to attend the trial in criminal proceedings, is intended to protect the presumption of innocence of anyone who is accused or suspected of a crime by the judicial and police authorities and also the right of a person accused to attend their criminal trial. The Directive applies to any person investigated or charged in criminal proceedings and covers all stages of that procedure. Corollaries of the presumption of innocence are the following principles, which the Member States will have to guarantee: the burden of proof of guilt rests on the public charge; the suspect has the right to remain silent and not to self-incriminate and this silence must not be used against him, nor in any way assessed for the purpose of the commission of the crime; the directive also gives the person investigated or charged in criminal proceedings the right to be present at their trial; if the principle of presumption of innocence and the right to be present are violated, the States must ensure adequate means of redress. Finally, given that the principles laid down in the Directive are already the patrimony of fundamental rights enshrined both in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and in the European Convention on Human Rights, a non-regression clause has been included in the Directive in relation to the consolidation of these rights within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. It should also be recalled that on 31 March 2021 the European Commission published a report on the implementation of the Directive, in which the general assessment shows that most Member States have complied with the transposition obligation. However, there are some difficulties in some Member States, particularly concerning the scope of the national measures implementing the Directive and the transposition of the provisions on the prohibition of public reference to guilt and the right not to incriminate itself. Failure to comply with all provisions has a negative effect on the effectiveness of the rights provided for by it. On the basis of the report of 31 March, the European Commission reserves the right to open infringement proceedings against Member States which are deemed not to comply with the requirements of the Directive. In view of the above, it was therefore considered necessary to confirm the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies in order to allow the immediate entry into force of the European delegation law 2019-2020. I would like to add that Senator Briziarelli has raised an issue in the Commission with regard to Article 14 of the animal health bill to point out that the delegation criterion set out in point (q) would go beyond the requirements of Regulation 429, providing for a specific ban on the import, conservation and trade of exotic wildlife, with serious repercussions on both citizens and economic sectors linked to this activity. However, with regard to this issue, since it is part of the text not amended by the House of Deputies and therefore not under consideration, we have commonly decided that, if necessary, we could put in place a separate legislative measure. Finally, I would like to point out that, with regard to some of the directives contained in the text, the European Commission has already opened infringement procedures for failure to transpose the deadlines laid down, and that is why we wanted to speed up this process. This is particularly true of infringement procedures no. 2021/0121, on the competition authorities of the Member States; 2021/0059, on the internal electricity market; 2021/0058 on credit institutions; 2021/0057, on financial companies; 2021/0056, on the electronic communications code; 2021/0055, on money laundering through criminal law; 2020/0533, on audiovisual media services, and 2020/0070, on the harmonisation and simplification of certain rules in the VAT system. We are therefore late and it is now right to speed up. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u16	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Doria is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Covid-19 pandemic has also exacerbated social disparities in our country, digging an even deeper groove among those who still have an income, in the face of so many new poor that the economic pandemic from coronavirus has generated. While I am aware that we can no longer supplement the European delegation law that we are sacking today, I would like to stress the need to officially share here in this House an amendment which would have been appropriate in the context of the law, but which I shall present in a forthcoming legislative act. This amendment, which I have discussed with many of you, concerns the arrangements for enlisting the degree courses of the health professions and the medical area specialization schools and is related to the current pandemic emergency, limited in time and experimental, while waiting for a law to reorder the university system. For both recruitments, the selective entry test would still be managed at national level by the Interuniversity Consortium for the automatic calculation of North-Eastern Italy (Cineca) and common for all universities, as is the case today, but with local merit rankings, as the candidate would compete for entry into a single university of his choice. The national centralized management of the selective test would guarantee impartiality and homogeneity and meritocracy would be protected, with the aim of always keeping the bar high. The amendment, the text of which will be made available to the House in a memo which I shall deposit at the end of the work, consists of two paragraphs. The first is related to the arrangements for enlisting the degree courses of the health professions and has an exquisitely socio-economic motivation. In fact, at present, with the employment of a national ranking, the registration to the degree courses of the health professions in universities outside the home, or away from their residence, becomes possible only to the wealthy economic belt, cutting out a large part of the population that today, even because of the pandemic, has greatly reduced its income, thus being unable to afford the university studies of a child out of office. For the enrollment to these courses, I would therefore leave the student free to participate in the selection in the university in which he wants it, depending on his motivations and economic possibilities, always guaranteeing the right to study. The second paragraph concerns the arrangements for enlisting medical specialization schools and has a purely medical motivation. The enrollment today takes place using a national ranking that determines the formation of a student population of the schools of specialization quite varied according to their places of origin, which, although very beautiful from a point of view of cultural exchanges, leads to ensure that, once the course of study is completed, the neospecialists return to their region of origin, putting in crisis the regional health system where they were formed. With an enlistment with local rankings, it would be statistically much more likely a greater regionalism of postgraduate specialized training, which would shelter health systems, especially in regions such as Sardinia and Sicily, where the problem of insularity also insists. Each doctor would participate in the competition for the specialization school with the national test, but in the university he prefers. In order to allow the national test for entry not only into a school, it would be useful to diversify the specialty tests and fix them for groups on different dates, allowing the candidate to submit up to a maximum of three selective tests per year. As a university lecturer and a doctor engaged in politics, I believe that universities have a great responsibility to support the health system, especially in training... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] and that the right to study should always and in any case be guaranteed and cannot be bound by the economic possibilities of individuals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u20	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, just to make it clear that I will support Mr Doria's amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u21	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on today is certainly very complex and has been modified by the House of Members, with the introduction of a very topical and extremely important issue, such as the one dealt with by the European Parliament's directive, which also deals with the presumption of innocence. I think it is essential that we all understand the real scope of this directive, because we must make a serious commitment to its implementation. It provides that Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that, until the guilty of a suspect or accused person has been legally proven, public statements made by public authorities and judicial decisions other than those on guilt do not present the person as guilty. It is clear that this would be a change of pace, compared to a few months ago, when some said that there were no innocent people in prison and that there was a criminalistic and guilty climate in prison, that often subjected a person to media deception simply because she was investigated, making her pass, only for this reason, to a certain culprit. We also think of the press conferences, perhaps at the conclusion of the investigations, during which the people involved are presented as certain guilty and exposed to the public ludibrio, which will hardly be deleted even in case of absolution, with the publication of the interceptions, which are mostly only partially exposed, uncorporated in the accusatory sense by the complex of the intercepts themselves or the conversations intercepted. All this, of course, without the defence having any chance of intervention. Think, colleagues, that every year about 120,000 people are exonerated or acquitted in the first degree: all subjects whose names have been fed to public opinion, who almost always do not erase the memory of the moment of involvement, but easily forget the acquittal or exoneration. When will these subjects ever be able to erase the negative memory, to recover serenity and credibility, to regain the family harmony and also in the workplace destroyed by the inevitable tensions, resulting from the involvement in criminal proceedings? This is therefore a very topical and very important issue. Let us think, in this regard, of a press conference that has been held in Oristano in recent days, not even at the end of the investigations, but at the start of the same, on a certainly regrettable fact, which concerned the preferences granted in vaccination, favouring - it seems - relatives and friends. I wonder, however, why there was a need for a press conference on such a subject and for the names of all the people involved to be given, when it was only at the start of the investigation, to feed public opinion on these people, who had no chance of defending themselves and who perhaps instead had justifications to make. Do we then want to talk about the news of a warranty notice against an esteemed ministerial official, known for being an intimate person, charged with corruption? In this case, the interests at stake and the amounts of corruption are absolutely incongruous, which should have imposed the utmost caution. Instead, the news was fed to public opinion and the person did not resist the shame and tried to take his own life, having no means available to justify himself, defend himself and face that accusation on a level playing field. I want to make it clear that we do not want to question the work of the judiciary, but it is necessary to enable it to carry out its activities peacefully in compliance with the Constitution, which provides precisely for the principle of not guilty until the final judgment. So the issue we are dealing with is certainly extremely important. We trust very much in the Minister Cartabia, who has repeatedly said that the lighthouse of his work and action will always be the punctual observance of our Constitution. Let us ensure that this European directive is fully applied in our judicial system, so as to protect the weakest and put all parties on an equal footing that is currently non-existent. If, as we must, we run this directive, our judicial system will certainly benefit significantly from it in terms of fairness, justice and credibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u22	She is registered to speak Senator Angrisani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u23	Mr President, we are back in the Senate Chamber to discuss the European delegation law, after the amendments to the text approved in the House of Members, with which a further directive on the presumption of innocence has been included in Annex A. Overall, the Community legislative acts referred to are 50, of which 11 are Regulations and 39 are Directives. In any case, I would like to focus this brief speech on Article 9 of the draft law, which sets out the guiding criteria for the transposition of European Directive No 790 of 2019 on copyright and related rights in the digital single market. The aim of the Directive is to adapt the regulatory framework of the Member States to rapid technological developments affecting the way in which works and other materials are created, produced, distributed and exploited, while new business models and new players are constantly emerging. Therefore, in a changing general context, the new Community rules provide for certain exceptions and limitations to copyright and rights related to the digital environment and to the cross-border context, also favouring the establishment of procedures for the granting of licences for use, in particular - but not only - for the dissemination of out-of-trade works and the availability of audiovisual works online, in order to ensure wider access to content and the creation of a fairer market. European legislation is thus affecting certain areas, including research, education and the preservation of cultural heritage, where new digital technologies allow for renewed use, one on all data extraction, ensuring, on the one hand, the necessary protection of authors' interests and, on the other hand, the needs of public users. This has led to the resolution of situations which, until recently, were relegated to a limbo of legal uncertainty regarding the extraction of text and data, with a mandatory exception for universities and other research bodies, as well as for cultural heritage institutions, to the exclusive right of reproduction in order to promote the field of scientific research in as broad a way as possible. For this reason, I would like to stress the importance of the content referred to in Article 9 of the draft law of European delegation, with which it entrusts itself to the Government both the task of defining which entities are included in the concept of cultural heritage protection institutions, in the broadest possible sense, so as to facilitate access to the goods stored in them, and of regulating the exceptions and limitations useful for the extraction of text and data, so as to regulate in general the access to tenders and the requirements of the public non-profit bodies involved, such as universities, higher education institutions, libraries and research institutes. The aim of extending the scope of the Directive to include other institutions of cultural heritage protection is a fundamental requirement. In this respect, it should not be forgotten the content of recital 13 of the Directive, which expressly provides that libraries accessible to the public and museums should be included on this list, regardless of the type of works or other materials they hold in their permanent collections, as well as archives and institutes for the protection of film or sound heritage. According to the European legislator, national libraries and national archives should also be included and, as regards their archives and libraries accessible to the public, educational institutions, research organisations and public broadcasting organisations should also be included. Very often, scientific education and research in our country, despite being considered as a priority sector, has had disastrous consequences resulting from policies of definancing and rationalization of costs and expenses. In many economic and policy documents, against declarations of intent, in which these sectors were considered essential for restarting, the public resources allocated have been unchanged or even decreasing. The implementation of the 2019 Directive, in this light, can undoubtedly be a useful tool for this cause, assuming that it will be the quality of the investments and the ways in which they will be supported, first of all starting from the use of the resources of the recovery plan, to define with what degree of maturity our country will be able to face the challenges that concern scientific research, education and culture, field in which the impact of the new technologies can be decisive, especially from an intergenerational perspective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Nannicini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, representatives of the Government, the law of European delegation that we are about to approve is an important link between the European legal system and the Italian legal system, through the transposition of European directives and the implementation of other acts of the Union. It must be seen as an instrument for modernising and simplifying our order, to give certainty and not to create doubts and interpretative inconsistencies. That is why, within the few minutes available, I will focus on the principles and guiding criteria contained in Article 29 of the draft law, in implementation of Directive 2019/1151 on the use of digital tools and processes in company law. This is a directive which seeks to facilitate the online establishment of companies and the registration of their branches, with the clear objective of reducing costs, timing and administrative burdens, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is clear that the transposition of this directive will not be a step backwards in our legal system compared to the digitisation of company law and with the necessary simplification and flexibility in the use of tools by innovative start-ups and start-ups. In these days and in the last few weeks the concern of the world of start-ups, in particular of innovative start-ups, has risen, with respect to the possibility that there is a step back. Indeed, many of these legitimate concerns are linked to a decision of the Council of State that cancelled the decree of the Minister of Economic Development of 17 February 2016. It is true that, from now on and until new legislative interventions, Italian start-ups will not be able to constitute themselves free of charge online. But this has nothing to do with the bill that we are discussing and could not be otherwise, being a proxy. The effects we see and the concerns we record are related to the decision of the Council of State on the Ministerial Decree of 2016. Indeed, the implementation of the principles and criteria of delegation that we are about to approve with the transposition of the European directive could and should be an opportunity to allow the Government to clarify the online constitution of companies. The possibility of providing for the online establishment of companies is fully included in those principles of delegation, with regard to both limited liability companies and simplified limited liability companies, based in Italy and with capital paid through cash contributions, through two instruments and leaving flexibility in the use of these instruments to economic operators, as is now the practice in the Member States of the European Union. The first instrument is a notary public act, including computer or computer, using a platform that allows videoconferencing and remote subscription of the act with digital signature or other type of qualified electronic signature. The second possibility includes telematic procedures that, after electronic identification of the applicant, allow the use of standard models predefined and validated by the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Justice, always to be signed with digital signature or other type of qualified electronic form. It is therefore appropriate to leave flexibility in the birth tools of our companies, start-ups and innovative start-ups by reducing improper administrative burdens and bureaucratic costs that do not serve if the road we want to continue to pursue is to simplify and digitize our company law. Without prejudice to the general simplification objectives of the Union Directive, the controls required by Article 10 of the same Directive must be ensured by giving the Conservatives of the Business Register a specific administrative control power. It would not make sense to transpose the delegation law and the directive which the delegation law transposes by taking a step back to the path of digitisation and simplification of our company law. But this is perfectly in the perimeter that the Government will be able to act and I hope that the delegation will be exercised by implementing these principles and remedying the step back that the overcoming of the ministerial decree of 2016, by the Council of State, risks making us remove certainty and placing improper burdens on the world of start-ups and start-ups, innovative whose vitality we will have a great need compared to the challenges of our economy in the coming months and years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u27	Mr President, President Stefano has already pointed out that I would only speak with regard to Article 14 of the European delegation law and, in particular, to point (q). We raise this aspect and the position of the League is very clear. Just this morning Matteo Salvini, together with my colleague Campari, presented a bill to protect animals. We are for the protection of animals, but we cannot accept that with the excuse - and I say this clearly for Article 14 - to protect health - on this we are firmly committed and, in fact, we have improved the text by prohibiting, for example, the marketing of cyprinids and obliging the re-entry of cyprinids, according to a battle of Senator Bossi - the import, possession and marketing of any exotic animal, regardless of whether it is the fish of the aquarium or the parrot. Someone might wonder how it is possible in the Senate that this is a subject of this kind. It is essential to treat it because we have nothing to learn from anyone at national level on health and we have already joined the Washington Convention on the Protection of Animal and Plant Species since 1975. But it cannot be said that with this excuse you can kill an entire section. I quote data. The Italian Federation of Orniculturists (FOI) counts this year 1,700,000 specimens, of which more than 30 percent is exotic and, therefore, almost 600,000 specimens. The Italian Association of parrot breeders with 160 companies counts 20,000 specimens only for this year. An entire sector made up of producers of cages, producers of feed, specialized veterinarians risks being brought to the knees not for the transposition of a European provision (as all countries have done), but because, as always, we impose something more and we find the excuse for an ideological battle, to create damage to millions of Italians who have a pet in the house - I do not see why, in addition to the cat and the dog, we cannot have another animal - and to damage a sector that counts tens of thousands of workers and jobs. The request we made in the Commission, which was received by the President and his colleagues, was to go into more detail. Having noted that it is impossible to block the entire European delegation law and go to the fourth reading to correct what is a clear mistake, the appeal we make to the Government is to remedy this error, which in fact not only adds nothing in terms of safety for health - the controls and repression of illegal phenomena and actions - but destroys a sector and even potentially could favor the increase of the illegal trade of exotic specimens. We therefore ask the Government for a commitment, in the next steps, to remedy and give a message of tranquility from today to many people who risk to see compromise the affective relationship with an animal, and to companies that risk to close their business, putting many families on the pavement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u28	She is registered to speak Senator Ricciardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u29	Mr President, Government, kind senators and kind senators, on 14 February last year the Government presented to the Senate the bill of European delegation that initiates the procedure for integrating important Community directives into the Italian legal system, closing, among other things, various infringement procedures against Italy and thus saving public money for the related sanctions. Today, with the adoption at the third reading of this measure, we put a firm point to the important work done in recent months in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. Parliament has improved the initial text, with awareness of the central role of our country in Europe and above all in the light of the role Europe is playing in the blackberries of the emergency Covid-19. The measure that we are going to vote on today is also a good thing for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, because it is the pillar on which Italy of the future will be based. It is a very important budget, which, obtained from Brussels, is a real new deal from which to start, and thus lay the foundations for the coming decades. Italy therefore has a duty, once again, to fulfil the commitments requested by Europe with responsibility and solidarity. Turning to the technical profile of this bill, we can say that it was approved at first reading by the Senate on 29 October 2020 and at second reading by the Chamber of Deputies on 31 March 2021. The House has changed only the list of directives, bringing to 39 the number of acts to be transposed into our order. In particular, Directive (EU) 2015/2043 on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present in criminal proceedings has been incorporated. The text, composed of 29 articles, contains delegation provisions concerning the transposition of 39 European directives and the adaptation of national legislation to 17 European regulations. The adoption of this law will allow our country to make great progress in the context of two issues that are very close to our heart: ecological transition and digital transition. In this regard, it is important to say that, thanks to the will and intuition of the 5 Star Movement, we have equipped our country, for the first time, with a Ministry of the ecological transition. The environmental issue and the ecological transition, which has always seen us at the forefront, is addressed in particular by three articles: Article 5, Article 12 and Article 22... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u30	Excuse me, Senator Ricciardi. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, to speak with a lower voice, because there is an incredible chaos.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u31	Please, Senator Ricciardi. RICCIARDI (M5S). I repeat, the environmental issue and the ecological transition, which has always seen us at the forefront, is addressed in particular in three articles, Article 5, Article 12 and Article 22, which have principles and guiding criteria for the implementation of directives on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, common rules for the internal market in electricity, in coordination with directives promoting renewable sources and, finally, the reduction of the impact of specific plastic products on the environment. In the environmental field - for example - simplifications will increase which will allow the distribution of charging columns for electric cars and we will have important provisions for combating pollution of plastics, and this also through the banning of disposable products, which are not only cutlery, plates and straws - as already provided for in the European directives - but also glasses and this thanks to an ad hoc amendment. Biodegradable plastics can then be used for disposable products when reusable alternatives are not available. Finally, trials are planned for a gradual transition to a dispatching system whose models are already widespread in Europe, with the aim of promoting a more active role for distribution network operators. The present law also delegates the Government to reorder the legislation on self-consumption, in order to facilitate the implementation of all self-consumption systems, the installation of energy production plants in existing buildings and the identification of incentives aimed at the establishment of renewable energy communities. In this way, the European Union requires Member States to set up a framework for promoting and facilitating the development of self-consumption, including in collective form. The activation, in fact, of the collective self-consumption from renewable sources and the realization of renewable energy communities are a reality that - I want to emphasize - Italy has anticipated and anticipates thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, with a special measure approved over a year ago. Therefore, thanks to the strengthening of these instruments, we will be able to reduce national energy needs and the consequent polluting emissions, create new jobs for the Italian small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector and reduce the cost of bills for condominiums and homes. This is a crucial issue, if we consider that 20 million Italians living in the condominiums waste more than half of their bills. With regard to the digital transition, we have always considered it essential to strengthen the reference to all the technologies that can guarantee the acceleration of our country in the realization of an ultra-wide band coverage. In particular, Article 4 of the law lays down criteria and guiding principles for the implementation of the European Directive on the European Code of Electronic Communications. This code includes four pre-existing telecommunications directives and defines both an updated framework for network discipline and the tasks of the National Regulatory Authorities with a view to developing 5G networks. Therefore, with the transposition of this code, Italy will take a step forward towards the digital modernization of our country; it will lay the foundations for the renewal of the network and will favor the appropriate infrastructures to satisfy the need for connectivity of families and enterprises, especially in the so-called white areas of the country, strongly located in the Mezzogiorno and in the internal areas. And I stress that this is a crucial objective, if we consider the difficulties encountered during the first lockdown by millions of citizens due to the absence of an adequate connection to the performance of smart working and distance teaching. Finally, it is also important to mention a fundamental directive for the protection of the Made in Italy agri-food sector, namely the directive on combating unfair commercial practices. This will be monitored by the central inspectorate for the protection of quality and the enforcement of fraud in agri-food products. The inspectorate, which is present in a widespread way on the territory, has already shown over time its ability to prevent and combat crimes in this area. With this directive you will have the opportunity to avail yourself of the support of the Command for the agro-food protection of the Arma dei Carabinieri and the Guardia di Finanza. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the delays in parliamentary work due to the pandemic and the government crisis, the Senate will finally give the final green light to this European delegation law today. And it will also do so thanks to the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars, in the knowledge that today we contribute to fortifying the bridge that connects our country with the European Union and, above all, with all the other Member States. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u33	Mr President, I have asked to speak because this is an opportunity to recall some of the problems that concern our country, the guarantee of relations between citizens and some of the guarantees provided by our Constitution, even if the reference to the European Parliament and the Council Directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present in the trial in criminal proceedings has been introduced as an annex to the House. This is based on two strong principles of our Constitution. The first principle, concerning the presumption of not guilty, means that no one can be found guilty or presented as such simply because a criminal initiative has been initiated against him; on the contrary, no one can be held guilty or pointed out as such even if brought to trial. Recitals 16 to 21 of the Directive explain this concept: Member States should take the necessary measures to ensure that, when providing information to the media, public authorities do not present suspects or accused persons as guilty until their guilt has been legally proven, without prejudice to national law to protect freedom of the press and the media. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these statements are currently not respected in our country. It is true, at the level of principles, that everything is in the Constitution and our laws, but I would like to see serious implementation. Article 111 of our Constitution provides for the principle of impartiality of the judge. Therefore, I cannot accept to read, in the story Palamara, that many times the impartiality of the judge is not even there; it is something outside the grace of God - excuse me - because a third and impartial judge is the necessary consequence and correlation of the principle of not guilty. There can be no principle of not guilty if there is no third and impartial judge: that is the logic. On the contrary, in our system we have television broadcasts that represent a celebration of a process, so to speak, of mass, according to a model outside our legal and social culture. Beware: at the time when it was the square or some organizations that determined what is right and wrong and what is the solution to be adopted, we would find ourselves in the worst period of the French Revolution, when it was claimed that the judge applied these principles. I think one of the first rules that the judge has to learn in our country is his third. What does that mean? If you're a judge of the family, you have to forget the family model you believe in. You must be able to develop a capacity of extraneousness to the case in such a way that you have the ability to delimit the affairs of that family and apply the constitutional principles, but never with the intention of interfering in that family. Thus, in criminal law or in any other field, a judge who thinks of shaping his action to his beliefs and beliefs is outside the constitutional model: he is not a judge. The principle of thirdness, which is even stronger than impartiality, is something that leads the judge to be, compared to the case before his judgment, completely foreign. Only this is the guarantee of our system. Instead, we have the media process, based on non-knowledge of facts. I happened in my life, at least in four processes of clean Hands, to have a knowledge of mathematical certainties about evidence and other elements and instead to have a television representation completely dystonic. Mr President, my conclusion is that we have the rules, but we must not only pretend that those who apply them are consistent with the words written in the laws, but also that the legislator is responsible for correcting deviations from these principles through new instruments. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u34	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank the Members of the Commission for sharing the need to speed up with me and the Government. We need to close this legislative process and I hope that today's vote will remedy a whole series of infringement procedures that have already been opened against our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u36	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u37	Mr President, I too would like to thank the 14th Commission, President Stefano and all the Commissioners for the excellent work they have done, because not only are we now going to accept the House's proposed passage, but the bulk of the work has been done by the 14th Senate Commission. Therefore, I would like to express my thanks and - if you will allow me - also to thank the former Undersecretary Laura Agea, since she was the one who worked very hard for this delegation law. [[Applause]] This is a delegation law that - as Senator Ricciardi said - builds a base for the PNRR and it is no coincidence that among the 39 directives there are some that Italy was among the first countries to transpose. I am referring, for example, to the copyright directive, which gives and builds a very important framework of reference. There is also the electronic communications code, which is crucial for the development of broadband, just for what we should do in the PNRR; renewable sources and the directives on media-audio-visual services. As suggested by Senator Caliendo, the Chamber of Deputies has also introduced, with the agreement of all groups, the directive on the presumption of innocence, which is an element on which the exercise and delegation with the Ministry of Justice will work intensively. I would also like to respond to Senator Doria, as regards the proposal that does not enter this delegation law, but in the next one, also in the passage on European law, and to Senator Briziarelli, as regards the exercise of the delegation, because it is clear that, once approved, we will have two three months with the relevant ministries to remedy even an appropriate reading. The same applies to the intervention of Senator Nannicini, who obviously stressed the central point of the start-ups and that in the exercise of the delegation also the constitution of the younger and more innovative societies must see an appropriate response. Dear President, I would once again like to thank the 14th Commission and its President for the work they have done and to give us an appointment already next week for European law and also for the new delegation law, continuing this work on reducing infringements for our country. I would also like to say that the work done at the beginning of this year places Italy among the countries that are reducing infringements more and more quickly, but I am sure that this Parliament, with its attention and capacity, will be able to give an even greater stimulus. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u38	I inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration. I say that no amendments or agendas have been tabled. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 in the text amended by the House of Deputies, which introduced an addition to Annex A referred to in paragraph 1 of that Rule. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 2 to 29 are identical to the articles of the text approved by the Senate and will therefore not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u41	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, we are called on to vote on the only amendment made by the House of Deputies on 31 March to the draft law of the European delegation 2019-2020, which was approved at first reading by the Senate last October; this amendment introduced a new directive - as has already been mentioned - bringing to 39 the number of European acts to which we are called to implement. This is Directive 343 of 2016 on justice on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present in criminal proceedings. The deadline for transposition of the Directive was set in April 2018. It is recalled, more generally, that the draft law of the European delegation consists of 29 articles, which contain delegation provisions concerning the transposition of 39 directives and the adaptation of the internal system to 16 European regulations; a complex law, which saw a great deal of work done by the 14th Commission on important issues, from audiovisual rights to renewable energy sources, the environment, competition and the internal market, cybersecurity and also in banking and credit matters. In particular, however, Directive No 343 of 2016, introduced with the amendment to Article 1, aims to protect the presumption of innocence of anyone accused or suspected of a crime by the judicial and police authorities and at all stages of the trial, as well as the right of a person accused to attend their criminal trial. Corollary to the presumption of innocence are therefore the following principles that the States will have to guarantee: the burden of proof of guilt rests on the public charge; the suspect has the right to remain silent and not to incriminate himself and this silence must not be used against him or in any way evaluated for the purposes of the commission of the crime. It should be recalled that the principles of the directive are already the heritage of European fundamental rights enshrined both in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and in the European Convention for Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in perfect adherence to the constitutional principles, Article 27 of our Constitution, and to the principle of fair trial, as set out in Article 111 of the Constitutional Charter. However - and this is the partial novelty - the European principle of presumption of innocence seems to want to extend this right to require Member States to take measures to ensure that, in public statements by the issuing authorities, there is never in any way any reference to the person as guilty, in order to also ensure that the persons investigated or accused are never presented as guilty in court or in public, for example through the use of physical coercion measures, unless, of course, such measures are not necessary to ensure safety or to avoid escape. It is, therefore, a vision of greater guarantee which could require rather cultural action as well as legal appeal against any kind of media process. The proposal is part of the implementation measures of the Stockholm Programme, adopted as early as 2009, which invited the Commission to present measures to strengthen the rights of the suspect or accused by establishing rules common to the Member States. In addition, a number of other directives had intervened up to the commentary directive: in 2010 we remember the directive on the right to interpretation and translation; in 2012 the directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings and in 2013 the directive on the right to use a lawyer also in the procedure for the execution of the European arrest warrant, already implemented by legislative decree of 2016. The provisions of the proposal must therefore be considered to be in accordance with the national interest, as they aim at achieving the right of fair trial by means of a system of minimum guarantees towards progressive European harmonisation of cases, which is the basis of mutual trust and the recognition of judicial decisions between Member States. This is, therefore, a very important further step towards European integration, including in matters of jurisdiction. For these reasons I declare the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour of the bill of European delegation 2019-2020, as amended by the Chamber [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u44	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, today we are examining at third reading the draft law of the European delegation: in April 2021 we are voting, that is, an incardinated measure in 2019 and this is already indicative of how badly the path of the draft law under consideration has been. More indicative, however, is what happened in the previous votes between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. Just after the summer, together with the draft law under discussion, we voted on the programmatic report on Italy's participation in the European Union: a document - think a little - presented in January 2020, that is, on a date prior to the outbreak by Covid-19 and, therefore, obviously the document did not mention the crisis triggered by the pandemic. At the time there were no 25 billion of the European Investment Bank Guarantee Fund (EIB); there were no 25 billion of temporary support to mitigate the risks of unemployment in an emergency (Sure); there was no recovery fund; the European Central Bank did not inject significant sums of money into all European countries, as it is doing this last year. There were budgetary constraints that are now suspended (we all know the Stability Pact); there was a ban on State aid, which was also suspended. The Schengen Treaty, which provides for the free movement of persons, one of the pillars on which the European Union has been built, has even been suspended for a period of time, which has been set aside to cope with the pandemic that we are also living these days. And we had the courage to vote on a document in which all this was blatantly absent and today we are again here, in this House, discussing it at third reading, a frankly unnecessary waste of time in a European context where, once again, the rules seem to be clear but not exactly the same for everyone. Germany, in fact, once again, makes its voice heard loudly. It had already done so last year, when the question of the legitimacy of quantitative easing was raised, when the German Constitutional Court expressed serious doubts about the legitimacy of this instrument on 5 May. I would like to remind you that this instrument provides for the purchase of eurozone Member States' government bonds by the European Central Bank. Clearly, the ECB has provided explanations that have been accepted by the German Government and the Bundesbank can continue to support this type of instrument. On this occasion it is good to recall how Chancellor Merkel made it clear that she wanted to stick to the decisions of the German Constitutional Court. Of course, these statements by Merkel constitute an important precedent which, however, is not the only one. In fact, just under a month ago we saw another stop on Germany's recovery plan this time; a German stop in front of a very important European plan, on which we have been debating for more than a year. In this case too, the German Constitutional Court, in recent days, intervened on the President of the Republic, blocking the ratification of the recovery fund. The problem raised by the Germans is the shared debt provided for by the Next Generation EU, which also benefits Germany; a debt shared by the states of the Union that is repaid by the same states through the European budget and after a year of discussions and negotiations we must record that it is the Germany of Chancellor Merkel, the most important State of the European Union, that is putting difficulties. And now, on this incredible German stop at the recovery fund, we expect the government and the majority themselves to speak out condemning Germany's attitude that every time it feels the need to remind the rest of Europe that it decides all of it and that everyone must submit to its positions, also because, perhaps it is also good here to remember it, in a strictly theoretical line the German rejection of the Plan would bring down the whole scaffolding of the same and we should definitely say goodbye to the recovery with all the consequences that would result. Therefore, in our opinion as Brothers of Italy, there is a matter of principle for which Germany, or the main state of the European Union, officially declares that its order is over-ordered with respect to European laws. So you can't be in a gathering where the established rules apply to everyone, but not to one of the participants, who decides to do what he thinks best. For us it is a battle of national dignity, a battle for the respect of our Constitution, a battle for the affirmation of national sovereignty and it is a battle that Brothers of Italy has always conducted in every seat, and that our national leader, Giorgia Meloni, has formalized in the Chamber with a bill. In these weeks, as you all know, we have engaged Parliament with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan; a plan that we have said is outdated and obsolete, already rejected by Europe and that will not be what the Government will present at the end of the month that will be, instead, a National Recovery and Resilience Plan that will arrive at the Chambers on 26th April 27th just to see it, otherwise it would not be possible to present it by the end of the month in Brussels. Too bad that just yesterday from Europe we were told that it is not essential that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is delivered by the end of April, but that the quality of this Plan is crucial and that a few more days would certainly not be a problem for Europe. So, Mr President, let's take this extra time, let's get Parliament to work on a plan that will commit future generations. We want to launch an input again, as our President Giorgia Meloni did yesterday in the meeting with President Draghi, who inherited this Plan from the previous Government and we cannot blame it; but, yes, President, we want to invite the new Government to respect the dignity of our country and Parliament, which must take on a central role - as we always say - and which must have the opportunity to work on the PNRR, which will be of vital importance for the future of our country. Today, therefore, we can only vote against the European delegation law, expecting Parliament to become central again tomorrow and to return to representing Italy and Italians worthily. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u47	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I am voting in favour of this measure. I would like to thank President Stefano, Mr Amendola, and all those in Parliament, the Government and the Offices who have collaborated in the launch of the European delegation law, on which we have spoken with so many actors interested in the directives. Today we finally respond to a crucial issue: copyright. I believe that Italy will be in today's vote the second country of the European Union to transpose the copyright directive. A norm of civilization; the authors produce culture and culture is the seed of democracy, tolerance, critical autonomy and responsible awareness. As the great Giulio Rapetti often reminds us, in art Mogol, the right to be paid for his work is a basic and inviolable right. Mogol, with its nice effectiveness, wonders whether going to a restaurant and being free to ask what he wants, is equally free to have lunch and get out of the same restaurant without paying. Certainly not, and then we have to ask why the work of about 90,000 authors and publishers, many of whom are young and under the age of thirty, should benefit free of charge the web giants, who make huge profits thanks to the art and creativity of singers, writers, poets and Italian and European actors. The work of the creator will be a good job only if protected and remunerated. Alongside this historical response, the delegation law incorporates 38 other directives on which colleagues, including Mr Nannicini, spoke for my Group. The law before us also contains an important principle: the European directives will be implemented taking into account the exceptional economic and social consequences of the pandemic, especially with regard to companies. I would like to conclude my speech with a broader political consideration: Europe is good for the directives that we are adopting today, well our two chambers for the long but intense work that they have done, well Europe on the suspension of the Stability Pact, well Europe on the recovery plan, well Europe on the eurobonds; I have to say with less honesty Europe on vaccines. The pandemic should have inaugurated a new global season of cooperation, instead it has accentuated geopolitical competition and the vaccine has become the new nuclear weapon of a new war for hegemony. In this war Europe seems, to date - I stress the words'seems' and 'to date' - without sufficient weapons and ammunition. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the subject of health sovereignty, together with fiscal and political sovereignty, is the decisive issue, without whose solution we will all be weaker and more alone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u50	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we are about to adopt this draft law, which comes to the House at third reading, for a single amendment which was made by the House of Deputies to the text, which had been discussed by the Senate for a long time. This is an amendment which, as we heard in the course of the debate, provides for the inclusion in Annex A of Directive (EU) 2015/2043 on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present in criminal proceedings. To be honest, with regard to the inclusion in Annex A to the Directive, which had as its transposition deadline 1 April 2018, it should be recalled that the delegation for the implementation of that Directive had already been included in the European delegation law no.163 of 2017. Unfortunately, this delegation has never been exercised by the Government and therefore it was decided not to proceed with the transposition of the directive - I see here the then Minister, today Undersecretary - informing the European Commission to this effect, already before the end of 2018. Although the deadline had expired, the European Commission did not consider it to open any infringement proceedings. I say this to point out that perhaps we could have worked differently, to ensure that the law of European delegation could be passed in the final text to the House of Deputies, without a return to the Senate. We must try to speed up the transposition of directives as quickly as possible, in order to avoid problems and because I believe that this is in any case an advantage. As everyone knows, with the law of a European delegation we put in place a series of principles and delegations to the Government and we know that delegation already takes a long time for its exercise. I therefore believe that it is beneficial, for our country, to be ever more rigorous possible, from this point of view. However, this element of amendment has certainly strengthened some aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present in criminal proceedings and everything that goes in the sense of affirming citizens' rights and guaranteeing certainly sees us consenting. The rest of the delegation bill has not been changed in relation to the work that was done by the Senate some time ago and so, in confirming our vote in favour, I would like to refer to some very important issues that are present within the European delegation law. On the employment front, it has been said, but we also think of Article 20 and the guiding principles and criteria for the delegation of powers on the adaptation of national legislation to the provisions of the pension product regulation, the European Social Entrepreneurship Funds, the definition of minimum rights for workers and the directive on the balance between work and family life. Also in the field of education and culture, among the directives that the Government is delegated to transpose, there are some very important ones: from Directive 2018/1808 on the coordination of certain legislative provisions regarding the provision of audiovisual media services to the intervention on copyright. As you can see, it is all a very important front that Europe has as its goal. There are also many issues which are closely linked to what we have been discussing for many weeks now and which we all hope will come to the final version as soon as possible. I am referring to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Many of the issues contained in this law of European delegation are parallel, intertwined with the Next generation EU: the path towards the energy transition, the new objectives that Europe has set for reducing emissions, also in view of the goal of climate neutrality to be achieved in 2050. There are therefore many important elements in this delegation text towards these objectives. In the text which had been dismissed by the Senate, a number of amendments were also adopted on the renewables front, which are very important and which we believe are fundamental in relation to the issue of energy communities, self-departure and self-consumption. In short, a series of measures that help us a lot in the path of green transition. We have done an important job in the examination of the Senate, achieving a non-secondary objective for us, not only for Italy but for the planetary balance: we have inserted a rule on palm oil and we have decided to exclude it from renewable sources since 1 January 2023, thus anticipating by a year the directive that provides for its gradual exclusion between 2024 and 2030, in the wake of what other European countries, such as France, are doing, and - I believe - doing so a very important job precisely for the equilibrium of the planet. On the other hand, we know that plantations to make palm oil are linked to deforestation. Another very important issue that has been raised in this House - and I should like to say this - is that the text which was laid down by the Senate contains a fair, sacrosanct rule concerning the ban on the import of exotic animals, including for health reasons. I have once again heard a few words in this House, and I wonder whether some senators, including those belonging to the League, have a specific obsession whenever we talk about animals. This is not only a common sense rule, but it has absolutely a health-preventive purpose because we know exactly what it produces and what has produced the contact and spread of exotic animals for human health, but in general for the ecosystem. Indeed, the introduction into nature, as has often happened, in our ecosystems, of exotic animals has produced a very serious situation from the point of view of biodiversity, as well as the disappearance of a number of native species. I think the senate's work is very important. We hope that the Government in the delegation will be able to regulate it and fully transpose it. There are many other aspects, on which I do not dwell, which have found our agreement and our appreciation within the law of European delegation. I conclude, announcing and confirming the vote in favour on behalf of the Senators of the Free and Equal component and other Senators of the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u53	Masini (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the law of European delegation returns to this House again. As we know, this is a measure made up of a multitude of legislative delegations which Parliament gives to the Government in order to adapt the regulatory framework to the new Community provisions. This year too there are many areas in which action is taken, such as health, the environment, cybersecurity, finance and justice: millions of our fellow citizens, therefore, will have to deal with these new rules. The adoption of the bill, therefore, is fundamental for many obvious reasons. First of all, it is essential to avoid the risk of infringement proceedings, a situation in which we often fall and which involves enormous and long litigation costs to our country. It must be said that too often the lack of attention given to this measure has led to unpleasant consequences for Italy at European level, which is never good from a variety of points of view, of cost but also of credibility. Furthermore, approving this bill means providing greater protection and guarantees to our citizens. In fact, European standards do not only impose constraints, limitations and restrictions; the rules of the European Union provide, in fact, in particular rights, freedoms and opportunities for our compatriots. Failure to comply with European rules or not to transpose them correctly does not mean regaining sovereignty; rather, it means penalising our companies and our workers and weakening our country compared to other states. Today's measure, therefore, is not merely technical or bureaucratic, but deals with concrete and extremely innovative and important issues, with which we should all be confronted in our daily future. It is also the exact measure of how Europe and its Member States should work together in practice to ensure that Community development is real and comprehensive, with a long-term vision, so that the European project can find substance and final fulfilment. Through the European delegation law, it is therefore clear that the main aim of the Union is to create Community paths that will help all States to progress together on the path of economic, social and cultural development, with cohesion and equity. When something is flooded, I would not say that it is the fault of Europe, but of the use that individual states make of the instruments that Europe makes available to them. With the Next Generation EU programme, Europe has the ambition of transforming the ruins left by Covid-19 into a great opportunity to rebuild a more competitive and efficient continent, more modern and greener; a Europe of rights, an area of economic and social freedom. It is truly a unique opportunity, a level of Community maturity that we were almost no longer used to. But Europe is not an abstract entity that works on its own: we need our cooperation. The pandemic has largely demonstrated that the Member States are totally interdependent. We therefore have the task of reconnecting the threads of an ever closer dialogue with our European partners, in order to try to be more effective every day in the construction of common rules, protecting our interests to the best of our ability. In order to do this, it is necessary that the directives we are transposing today, as well as the programmes we are planning to implement tomorrow, then have a concrete and careful response to national legislation. On the other hand, while we often adopt measures that transpose European rules, we misunderstand them by hurting ourselves. One example of all of this is what my colleague Mr Cangini said in an article today: the procurement code. The procurement code, which was born from the transposition of the European directive on public works, has seen us as protagonists of a formal call from the Union itself for its incongruity with the European rules, interpreted excessively restrictively, to the point of becoming ingested to our development rather than instrument of a more correct development. In the complexity of the measure we are examining today, there are, then, many fundamental points to be carefully assessed, with a view to future opportunities: the delegation for the reform of the system to promote the use of renewable energies, for example, which is at the heart of the ecological transition project and at a focal point compared to the Next Generation EU programme and the ambitious and fair goal of climate neutrality in 2050; then there is the delegation for the transposition of the Copyright Directive, which provides more attention to the guarantees of the products of the communications companies and individual artists, who have often denied their right of compensation in the large non-European multinationals of streaming and dissemination. This is a common sense directive, on which my Group has worked very hard and on which Mr Mogol has also spoken, which is certainly not one who does not understand the subject. In the text that comes to us from the Chamber there is then a substantial modification relating to the transposition of Directive No. 343 of 2016 on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence in judicial proceedings. It is a change that will have an immediate impact on the life of the Italians and that, as a first result, clearly demonstrates a sharp change of pace towards guaranteeing in this country. This is a step change not only at the level of European policies, but also with respect to the legal aspects that this text has given us thanks to the work done by the colleagues of Forza Italia in the Chamber on the strengthening of the presumption of innocence and that has seen Minister Cartabia, whom we thank, of course, consistent with that guarantee line that distinguishes the mature democratic systems. All this is the emblem of a change in the country's cultural structure, of a collective maturity as a political class that we owed our citizens for a long time. The presumption of innocence and the right to a fair trial are enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, for the most part already accepted, as Mr Caliendo mentioned earlier, in the Italian legal order. [[Applause]] Yet today, transposing European Directive No. 343 of 2016 takes on an extremely important significance of collective vision and construction. There is a passage contained in recital 19 which, compared to what often happens in our country, assumes a strong emblematic importance. I quote it. He did it before my colleague Caliendo. Member States should take the necessary measures to ensure that, in providing information to the media, the public authorities do not present the suspects or accused as guilty until their guilt has been legally proven. Yet it is often bad practice for suspects and accused people to be presented to the public as if they were people who were already condemned definitively. Every day the newspapers are filled with cases of suspects who are doomed and judged before a fair trial. This change in the House allows us and, indeed, obliges us to reflect deeply on why, even though our order punishes the dissemination of images that show the suspects as already guilty, we find ourselves almost incredulous today, with joy, obviously, for the transposition of a European directive that goes further in the direction of justice and civilization. This seems to be one of those times when Europe is asking for it, it can really bring us a benefit in terms of the rule of law, a real benefit that concerns all political sides and that will stop that all-Italian costume of façade guarantee when we talk about themselves, alternated instead with a fork spirit in accusing the opponent, an attitude that I feel I say with certainty - and will be recognized by all my colleagues in this House - Forza Italia has never had it. We know that work is still long and it remains, for example, an urgent need for reform in the field of state aid and competition, which is now completely distonic in relation to the development of international trade relations. However, much has been done with the examination of this measure. Announcement, therefore, the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u56	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the bill of European delegation returns to the Senate for its third passage after being analysed, discussed and amended by the two branches of Parliament. 18.14 (Follow-up). Already on this we could open the door to reflect on the importance of working in the committees on the substance of a legislative proposal, to have the Commissions of both Chambers express themselves, to discuss amendments and agendas in this House and to return to having a central body of our democracy in Parliament. On the delegation law it is important to reiterate that an important and in-depth work has been done in the Commission in its first passage: many hearings, discussion on a large number of amendments and several substantive amendments to the text that we have dealt with in a constructive spirit, despite the fact that at that time there was a majority other than the current one. There are several aspects that we have sought and, in some cases, we have managed to change; they are all related to two issues that, if not pragmatically, but only ideologically, risk causing considerable damage to our productive sector. I am referring to environmental and food issues. This delegation law was produced in a pre-Covid period, a period that dates back only a year ago, but which seems to us very far away because of the disastrous extent that this virus and the consequent restrictions on movements, trade and trade have caused on the global economy. Within this measure, some articles bring with them a punitive vision of companies that do not comply with the very strict directives on the environment and also in the European Union's agri-food sector. At a time when some of our major strategic industrial assets pay a very high price in terms of loss of turnover and employment standards, we must start thinking in a completely different, more pragmatic and less ideological way. We have to reason with two questions. Firstly, does what we are approving help our businesses? And above all, secondly, what are the employment implications of such taxation? Are they positive or negative? Let us go in concrete terms on Article 3. We have fought strongly for greater attention to the whole agro-food sector; we believe that, in the directive which is being transposed by Article 3, recitals 28 and 58 should not apply, simply because we believe that, by applying the directive without excluding these recitals, we risk going to cause damage to the agri-food sector, and that, in terms of health, we are treating some of our typical products as risky. In this it is clear that we must find a united position as a country and not divide ourselves in party terms. It is clear that this is a battle that some European countries are conducting with the clear intention of damaging our agri-food sector, which is a world excellence, to recover market shares that are currently excluded from them. We are pleased to have heard Minister Patuanelli promise battle on several occasions and we know that, with the Undersecretary Centinario, this issue has returned in a dominant way within the Ministry. Defending our Italian excellence, however, as already mentioned, cannot be something that divides us or that varies according to the location of a Ministry. The same approach must be taken on Article 5 and, in general, on environmental issues. We are all linked to the protection of the environment, but one thing is to do so in pragmatic terms, with studies on the employment impact of some medium and long-term policies, another is to embrace a green ideology on the basis of global political orientations from which there seems to be no escape. How much will this cost in terms of employment in the automotive sector? The logic of mass introduction of the electric car, which many hope will become the world logic, how many jobs will lose in terms of production, after-sales assistance, repair? How many of these workers can be reabsorbed in other sectors? We are talking about epochal changes, which can lead to the loss of millions of jobs, even in our country alone. In view of these figures, it is necessary to talk about planning, employment impacts, labour absorption plans and it is necessary to do so in conjunction with the good speeches on environmental protection. Only in this way can a real transition to a sustainable economy take place, both from an environmental and employment point of view. In conclusion, we are pleased that some dogmas linked to the European Union are falling one by one. We were the first party to denounce the madness of austerity and we are pleased to see that we have started to talk again about growth, GDP, long-term economic plans and that the fear of debt and fears of spread are at least for the time being set aside. We have spoken and denounced for years the risk of the European Union becoming a sort of bureaucratic monster and we are pleased, even if we would not have liked it, that we all agree on the incredible mess that the Commission has combined in the negotiation and procurement of vaccines, an issue on which a long debate should be opened, because these mistakes have had an impact on our country, both in terms of the loss of GDP and of human lives and we cannot underestimate it or forget it. Finally, I would like to say that we have also highlighted issues at first reading when approving the European delegation law. First of all, there is the issue of public procurement. We take into account the infringement procedure n. 2273/2018 and the operational difficulties generated by the Code of Public Contracts and we aim to adapt to the provisions of the European Directive on Public Procurement; let's simplify and really revise this sector and aim to restart the country. There is also the issue of mobility and infrastructure. Let us adapt ourselves to the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the guidelines of the Union for the development of the trans-European transport network; let us realize the infrastructural interventions that serve our country to become an integral part of one or more trans-European axis of connection, like that of Turin-Lion, that unfortunately has returned to the national limelight for the violent clashes that took place in San Didero last week and for the attempted murder that a group of antagonists has tried to put in place, tending to man height a steel cable through the Turin-Bardonecchia, potentially lethal for anyone. As a Piedmontese, I hope that the government will appoint as soon as possible a commissioner to work because, only by firmly confirming in the acts the will to complete the infrastructure, we will give meaning to all the sacrifices suffered by the people of Val di Susa, by the agents of the Forces of the Order and by the workers of the yard. I conclude this statement, announcing the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione to the bill under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u59	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, let us go back to talking about the law of a European delegation, even if it is 2019: we are in 2021 and we are still standing still. I have already spoken in an explanation of vote on this same measure on 29 October. Since then, little has changed in the text - the other branch of Parliament has only added a directive considered important in the area of justice - but much has changed from a political point of view. We have a new government, a new larger majority, but also somewhat uneven. Today, however, we mark another point in the path towards the implementation of the idea of Country that as Movimento 5 Stars we have in mind and for which citizens have rewarded us at the polls in 2018. With the approval of this bill, in fact, we start the procedure for the transposition of a large legislative package that, as customary for the law of European delegation, covers various fields: environment, technology, communications, copyright, energy transition, justice, all very current issues, which are indissolubly linked with the Recovery and Resilience Plan being finalised by the Government. The transposition of this legislation in this particular historical context is even more important, as it creates the environment, the regulatory humus within which the PNRR will have to fit in and unfold all the potential for revival and innovation that the country needs. For this reason, the bill, conceived before the pandemic, had in the course of the parliamentary passages many modifications with the insertion of additional criteria of delegation precisely in order to route and control our idea of revival and development. I am thinking in particular of the RED II directive on renewable energy - in this regard, I would like to thank Minister Patuanelli for what he has done in the course of his experience at the Mise [[Applause]] - with particular reference to the energy communities, which - as I recall - are the result of our struggle for years, both in the European Parliament and in the Italian Parliament, and which we have already turned into reality, also anticipating the Community directive itself. I am also thinking of the directive on disposable plastic, on which I would like to spend some time thinking. In the last year we have witnessed - I say this with great regret - a considerable use of disposable plastic: a decisive step backwards in the virtuous path that had started, due to the new needs manifested because of the pandemic in progress. Today, however, with a view to relaunching and changing, it is appropriate to resume the path we had taken, abandoning disposable plastic and, at the same time, protecting a sector that sees Italy as the protagonist at European level. For this reason, I would like to point out that at first reading an amendment was adopted which was strongly desired by the majority then, aimed at clarifying the letter of the directive in order to prevent possible erroneous transposition which would have caused considerable damage to our producers, which instead must be accompanied in the transition towards production and consumption more in line with the environmental objectives we set ourselves. I am also thinking of the code of electronic communications included in this bill of European delegation, which is fundamental for the development of a powerful and reliable network, as well as necessary to support the country's digitisation process envisaged in the PNRR and without which the same could not be best realized. Let me say that the importance of this bill of European delegation lies also in an aspect which sometimes, perhaps also because of us, we tend not to give the right importance: with today's approval we have the closure or we are preventing the opening of a series of infringement procedures for failure to transpose European legislation, procedures that weigh on a public finance already proven by the efforts made or that we are doing to limit as much as possible the damage caused by the global pandemic. There are eight infringement procedures on which we are intervening, which will be supplemented by European law, the examination of which has just begun in the 14th Senate Commission. Finally, I would like to focus on the linearity of the action of the 5 Star Movement in the majorities that supported Count I and II Governments before, and Dragons now. Three governments have changed since the beginning of the legislature and yet the 5 Star Movement, thanks to the determination with which it pursues that idea of future that we have in mind for a decade now, has always managed to affect and direct the action of government to put into practice what we had proposed to voters in 2018. Even if the pandemic has intervened, for three years, with our action of government in the two branches of Parliament we lay the foundations for a better Italy and ready to implement those necessary and no longer postponed changes of march that will allow us to get out of the slowness, if not from the immobilism, that has characterized the development in the last decades, and give a new impetus for a growth in line with our international competitors. Of course, today such a wide and varied majority complicates things a little. However, the Movimento 5 Stars, as promised, giving confidence to this Government, will always watch and watch carefully and is ready to signal any possible deviation from what was agreed in the formation of the current Executive. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Chambers are still waiting to see the National Recovery and Permanent Resilience Plan, even if we understand that the time is short, although the current Government has been able to benefit from the great work done by the Government Count II. The representatives of the citizens, that is, we, elected by them, cannot be left in the dark and without the possibility of intervening on the contents of a Plan that will mark Italy for at least the next twenty or thirty years. I know that in the near future, next week, the President of the Council will come to the House to report on this issue, but I firmly believe that it would be extremely important not only for Parliament, but for the country, to be able to see in advance the projects contained in the Plan to make our effective contribution. Therefore, I invite the Government and the Undersecretary Amendola to be a little more attentive to explanations of vote. I begin with the conclusion of my speech in this distracted House, perhaps committed mentally, not only to other measures, announcing the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause]] Mr President, allow me also to thank you for the great work done by all my colleagues in the 14th century. Commission and more, because it was a really long, complex and full-bodied delegation law. Let me also thank the Offices, the officials and the entire structure of the Senate of the Republic that allows us to work in a timely and attentive manner. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u61	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u62	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, in Italexit, the phrase "it" asks Europe clearly provokes allergy, also because, when it happens that Europe scams it and obliges the Italian State to pay the debts of the public administration with punctuality, this payment of the debts does not happen and often puts in trouble the small enterprises that operate in relation to the State. Many times, however, public administration finds itself faced with a Europe that demands things that go to dismantle the Italian system and typicality. I am thinking, for example, of the Tercas case: here Europe has put its fingerprints on the sinking of our peculiar banking system, that of banks linked to the territory, and has not only made the mistake at first instance, but has also resorted and lost. The Tercas case was a bit of a paradigm that led to the sinking of a very peculiar banking system. Then Europe, never as in this time of emergency, Covid, precisely on the vaccination emergency, replicated the same mistakes made, at first instance, in the face of the first warnings of the emergency, without having a common protocol, a common language and a common observation system that could give indications to the countries of the Eurozone and the European Union. I am also thinking of what is happening with regard to competition. I did not understand what happened to the letter that Vestager, European Commissioner for Competition, sent to our Government compared to Italian ports. I would not want us to run the risk of finding ourselves faced with a progressive and silent privatization of the Italian ports. Vestager wrote that letter a few months ago, but from the government we have not yet understood what type of answer you have given, because among other things it goes to affect the fiscal part of the management of the ports. To continuously delegate to Europe risks being a blank delegation that progressively disassembles Italy, Italianity and Made in Italy. Go ask the fishing community how well all these European regulations do, which bureaucraticly burden fishing or farming. Of course, for Italexit the vote can only be against and I thank the House again for its attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u63	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1721-B as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u64	The next item is the debate on draft law No 986. Colleagues, since we have ten ratifications, written speeches and cumulative explanations of vote are welcome. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u65	Mr President, these are ratifications of two Conventions and a Protocol dating back to 2002 and 2006, almost all of which have been transposed into national legislation on decent and productive work and safety at work. There is, therefore, an almost obvious ratification. The intention is that these international documents will help to build a culture for the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases and to create an increasingly safe and healthy working environment through progressive and coordinated action at both national and business level, with the full participation of all stakeholders. In particular, these international standards aim to provide a framework for a national policy that promotes social dialogue, the definition of the functions and responsibilities of the various actors, the deepening of knowledge of the issues of safety at work, as I have already said widely accepted by much of the Italian legislation. The analysis of the compatibility of the ratification procedure does not indicate any critical constitutional issues or conflicts with EU law and international obligations. It is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u66	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u69	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, in declaring the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour, I ask for permission to submit to the documents the full text of the speech for this and for the ratifications to follow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u72	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this draft ratification law and the subsequent ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u75	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I declare the Group's vote in favour of the draft ratification law under consideration and the subsequent ones. I would also ask that the written text of the explanation of vote be deposited with the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u78	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too am voting in favour of the Group's draft ratification law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u81	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this draft ratification law and all those that will be discussed today.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u82	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u83	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1223. The rapporteur, Senator Taverna, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u84	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the Agreement between Italy and Ecuador, signed in July 2016, on police cooperation, which establishes the commitment of the two countries to intensify bilateral cooperation to prevent, combat and conduct investigations into crime in its various forms, as a legal instrument for regulating police cooperation from a strategic and operational point of view. In particular, the Agreement sets out the areas of bilateral cooperation on transnational organised crime, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in drugs, migrants, weapons and cultural goods; in the search for fugitives, money laundering and information crime. The draft law consists of four articles and the Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law or other international obligations entered into by our country, starting with the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, the United Nations Convention against the Illegal Trafficking of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988 and the Convention against Transnational Organised Crime of 2000, all legal instruments adopted within the United Nations. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u85	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi, Lucidi and Ferrara confirm the favorable vote previously expressed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u86	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1271. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u87	Mr President, I will be extremely quick. This Agreement aims to provide a legal framework essential for the deepening of the discipline of relations between Italy and Afghanistan in very important issues relating to innovation, education and training. Cooperation today more fundamental than ever, also in function of the need to continue to provide support to the Afghan people following the withdrawal of the NATO troops from the territory. The announcement of the next conclusion of the Allied mission was welcomed with great enthusiasm. However, it must be accompanied by development cooperation initiatives and activities aimed at greater protection of the human rights of the civilian population, in order to prevent the space left by Western troops from being filled with new bowel conflicts. Italy is historically committed to supporting the development of Afghanistan; an example is the agreements with our country, which helps to offer support to small businesses, agriculture to rural markets or the rehabilitation of roads or corridors. The agreement that we are today to examine explicitly, first of all, the commitment of the Parties to develop activities that promote better and mutual knowledge, to promote their cultural heritage, to strengthen cooperation in the cultural, scientific and technological fields, to promote multilateral programmes, as well as the dissemination of their languages and cultures, to promote knowledge of their respective educational systems and to encourage cooperation between their respective universities and higher education institutions. The text does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u88	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senators Alfieri, Aimi, Garavini and Ferrara confirm their previous vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u91	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, a very brief explanation of vote slightly longer than the previous ones to stress to the House the importance of ratification of the Agreement on cultural, scientific and technological cooperation between Italy and the Government of the Republic of Afghanistan. Our colleagues will not escape the fact that this agreement comes as a result of the withdrawal of troops from Afghan soil. This decision that was initially taken in February 2020 by the US Administration of Trump, then confirmed in fact in September 2020, has been followed in these days because the new administration, although announced as completely different, has actually followed the path traced by the Trump Administration. So much so that the former president of the United States Donald Trump declared that he found the decision of the Biden Administration wonderful and positive. It seems, therefore, that a new era is beginning for Afghanistan and the Cultural, Scientific and Technological Cooperation Agreement which we are examining falls precisely in this respect. Therefore, in expressing the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, I also express appreciation for the Administration first Trump, then Biden, who have the merit of finally having decided to withdraw the troops from Afghanistan. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u92	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the draft law 1271, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u93	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1277. The rapporteur, Senator Pacific, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u94	Mr President, fellow senators, members of the Government, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the international transport of persons and goods by road, done in Rome on 9 February 2017. The bilateral agreement at our examination, already ratified by the Tunisian Parliament in February 2018, intends to be a regulatory instrument for the transport of persons and goods by road between Italy and Tunisia, in order to facilitate the development of trade and mobility between the two countries. Mr President, I am submitting the rest of the report, proposing the adoption of the draft law for our consideration by the House and declaring the vote in favour of the Idea and Change component of the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u95	Senator Pacific, the Presidency authorizes you to deposit the rest of the report. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi, Ferrara and Lucidi confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill 1277, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u96	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1278. The rapporteur, Senator Aimi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u97	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the Agreement between Italy and Bolivia on cultural, scientific and technological cooperation, signed in March 2010. This Agreement, intended to replace a previous Sector Understanding, dating back to 1953, first of all expresses the commitment of the Parties to promote and carry out activities that promote cooperation in the cultural, scientific and technological fields, to improve the knowledge and dissemination of their respective languages and cultures and to foster collaboration between their academic institutions, archival administrations, libraries and museums. The Agreement also commits the parties to mutual collaboration in the fields of publishing, music, dance, theatre, cinema, visual arts and radio and television, as well as to prevent and suppress the import, export and illegal trafficking of works of art. With regard to the economic burdens resulting from the implementation of the measure, Article 3 of the draft law assesses them in € 179,180 for each of the years 2021 and 2022, and in € 188,300 annually from 2023, as well as in additional € 78,840 from 2021. The text does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u98	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi, Ferrara and Lucidi confirm their vote in favour. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u99	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1954, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u100	Mr President, I would ask you to submit the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u101	The Presidency authorizes it to do so, there are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi, Ferrara and Lucidi confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u102	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1955, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Aimi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u103	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved in the Chamber of Deputies, ratifying the Agreement on the transfer of sentenced persons, signed by Italy and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo in April 2019. As can be seen from the introductory report to the draft law, the choice to regulate the matter through a bilateral convention was dictated by the lack of other legal instruments applicable to the case, since Kosovo did not accede to the Council of Europe's March 1993 Convention on the transfer of sentenced persons. The Agreement is intended to allow the transfer - in its own State - of citizens held in the territory of the other Contracting State, so as to allow them to serve the sentence imposed on them as a result of an irrevocable sentence in their country of origin. With regard to economic charges, Article 3 of the draft law evaluates them in total in euro 5,114 per year from 2020, mainly attributable to the expenses for the transfer of sentenced persons and for the missions of their companions. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems or conflicts with EU legislation or other international law rules to which Italy is bound. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u104	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi, Ferrara and Lucidi confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u105	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1935. The rapporteur, Senator Aimi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u106	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the House is called upon to examine the draft law on the accession to the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Autonomy on the right to participate in the affairs of local communities. The Protocol, signed on 16 November 2009, represents the culmination of more than twenty years of intergovernmental work within the Council of Europe on democratic participation at local level, which began with the signing of the European Charter of Local Self-Governments. The document, approved in 1985 in the Council of Europe and ratified to date by all 47 member countries of the continental body, obliges the parties to apply the fundamental rules in order to guarantee the political, administrative and financial independence of the local authorities, providing that the principle of local autonomy is recognized by national law and protected by the Constitution, thus allowing local authorities to be elected by universal suffrage. The Additional Protocol, the ratification of which is now before us, provides for another dimension to be added to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, relating to the right of the person to participate in the management of the affairs of local communities, or the right to work to determine or influence the exercise of the competences and responsibilities of the local authority. Article 3 of the draft law, in laying down a clause of financial invariance, stipulates that the administrations concerned shall implement the measure in question with the human, instrumental and financial resources available under existing legislation. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u107	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Garavini, Alfieri and Ferrara confirm the intentions of favorable vote previously expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u110	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to make a very brief remark on this agreement, which is very interesting. Although it is dated to 1985, it arrives in the Chamber these days. In my view, there is a very interesting part in the Agreement, which provides that the main purpose of this Protocol is to establish the individual right of anyone to participate in the affairs of a local community. I particularly welcome this aspect, because I think it is interesting to leave to the record what happened today in the Foreign Affairs Committee: we have heard the Chinese ambassador, who, urged in a very important way by several Commissioners, including myself for the League, but also by other colleagues from the centre-right, has been strongly pressed on the issue of human rights. Basically, he told us that those who do not agree with the government's directives cannot play a political role, for example by taking the issue of Hong Kong. In that case, there was talk of an economic agreement between the European Union and China. I believe that this is an issue on which we must reflect to decide what is the attitude to be taken. On the one hand, we are talking about everyone's right to participate in the political life of communities, regardless of political orientation. Recently the elections were held in Israel, whose Parliamentary Assembly, the Knesset, is very varied in terms of political direction. Having said that, I would like to reiterate the support of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group for this Agreement and call on the Assembly to reflect on this subject, which I think is very important.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u113	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to speak in favour of the Forza Italia Group, thanking the rapporteur, Mr Aimi, for the work he has done. I hope that, once this Agreement has been ratified, we will finally be able to change an absurd law, which prevents some local Italian communities from participating in the life of their local administrations, as in the case of those who live in the municipalities not the provincial capital of the so-called metropolitan cities, who see themselves electing the metropolitan mayor from others, that is those who live in the capital. I hope that with the International Agreement we will be moved to change a law that is absolutely absurd and inconsistent with democratic principles.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u114	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u115	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1926. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u116	Mr President, I only remember a passage in my report. It is an agreement that concerns Italy and Tunisia and as a project represents mutual convenience for both. Tunisia is a strategic country for Italian national interests and I believe it is a fundamental part of our country's renewed Mediterranean foreign policy. I request permission to deliver the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u117	The Presidency takes note of this and authorizes it to do so. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi and Ferrara confirm the intentions of favorable vote previously expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u120	PACIFIC (Misto-IeC). Mr President, I would like to speak about the ratification and implementation of the Agreement between the Italian Government and the Tunisian Government concerning the development of an electricity transmission infrastructure suitable for the exchange of energy between Italy (and, therefore, Europe) and North Africa. The Agreement was signed by the two countries on 30 April 2019. It is an ambitious project for future implementation and development. Mr President, I think it is important to stress the significant strategic value, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, and the geopolitical value of the work, which repositions our country in the North African political chessboard. The aim of the European Commission's proposal for energy and climate is to integrate Tunisia and the whole region into the European market. This very short introduction is necessary in order to better understand the strategic importance of extending the energy market for renewable sources to millions of people. In requesting permission to hand over the remainder of my written speech, I declare the vote in favour of the Idea component and we change the Mixed Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u123	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I will make a very telegraphic explanation of vote. This is an important agreement, in the face of an important investment (it is half Terna). I think it is important to leave to the record what we have done in the Commission on this agreement, because during the debate it emerged, also from Terna's report, that this investment, which is not at zero cost (apart from the European component, there is an investment also from Italy), would have had a reflection on the Italians' bill. Clearly, the Lega Group immediately activated and we asked the government for further information. These insights have arrived and the Guarantor has reassured that since 2026 the increases will be substantially minimal. I wanted to leave this intervention to the record, because in my opinion it was very significant. I am voting in favour of the Lega Group here.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u124	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u125	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1956, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u126	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will deliver this report, and I would just like to stress that Switzerland, which is a member of ESA (the European Space Agency), has an important role in the Galileo programme, in terms of technological and logistical services. It was therefore necessary to ratify the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in order to strengthen cooperation in this area. Article 3 of the draft law lays down a clause of financial invariance, establishing that the implementation of the measure must not result in new or higher burdens. For the rest, I would ask for permission to hand over the text of the report, asking for it to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u127	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Alfieri. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi, Ferrara and Lucidi confirm their previous favorable voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I thank you for your cooperation. We have voted on all ten ratifications. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u130	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am speaking on the really scandalous and shameful video of Beppe Grillo yesterday. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u131	Colleagues, please. I call on those who want to leave the House to allow the work to continue, because I cannot even hear what is being said.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u132	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President, because I also wanted to address my colleagues and, in particular, my colleagues at Movimento 5 Stars. I think what happened yesterday is an extremely serious fact; I consider it very serious. However, I must also say with pleasure, the very harsh stance of many political forces, beginning with Italy Viva-PSI. While we can understand in fact the suffering of a father who legitimately wants to defend his son, we have not heard in that violent video, masculine and in which a language of hatred is used, no word towards the girl, that would be the victim and that somehow was made to pass as guilty. [[Applause]] You see, Mr President - and I thank my colleagues - we are not in a court of law here, we are not judging whether those children are guilty or innocent, because that is why there is the judiciary and we believe in the judiciary. But we are guaranteed and, above all, there can be no alternating current moments, whether you are with the judiciary or against it. It seems to me that a value that has always been emphasized by the Movimento 5 Stars is that the judiciary, regardless, must always be defended. In any case, one thing is to defend the values of justice, one thing is justiceism and one thing is the spectacularization and the laughing and ridiculing of the pain and suffering of a girl and her family. Not only do we ask for Beppe Grillo's apology to that girl and to that family, but we also ask for his apology as a public character, who used his media power to enter into a tragic, tragic and painful affair, in which even things have insinuated that will then happen if they are true or not. I believe that this is the most serious thing: we are talking about a public character who, as such, should perhaps seek silence and not say a word about this affair. In my opinion, Mr President, it would have been better not to say so. However, he decided, once again, to make justiceism and spectacularization prevail over that affair, just today, at a time when the data tell us that violence and abuse are increasing, also because of the pandemic, lockdown and the many women who are afraid of denouncing. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that I would not only have preferred silence, but that there was at least knowledge of the laws. There are important laws such as the so-called red code, which has been adopted because those who have suffered violence are afraid, are fragile and vulnerable and it is not said that they should immediately report rape or violence; perhaps they need longer times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Yes, Mr. President. I demand respect and, above all, dignity for all women. [[Applause]] , because with that video were offended all women and, first of all, those who suffered violence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u135	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am sorry to do this at the end of the sitting, since I never do. Perhaps we could discuss the matter at the beginning of the sitting, as I think it was done in the House, but there will be a way to go back. Once upon a time there was a party that drove against everyone: I was Vice President of the Senate, I used the term " handicap ", "handicapped", which today is politically incorrect and should not be used - today different terms are used to indicate a physical and personal difficulty - and a senator, who no longer sits on the benches of the Movimento 5 Stars Group, asked for my resignation, because I had mistaken. I apologized, presiding over the works, because I was wrong to use a word that twenty or thirty years ago was in jargon and today is considered an offense. It is true that Grillo is not a Member of Parliament and he is not in this House, but he has decided on governments and not governments; here there are colleagues who would not have voted on some of them. Governments, if Grillo hadn't ordered him, then he's a full-fledged political leader. [[Applause]] , a leader who decides about Italian democracy. However, I still believe in the parties, so if a party decides a line, it is also right that a Member of Parliament should follow. And Grillo spoke in the political debate. I speak from the benches of a hyper-warrantist party, Forza Italia, that has brandished the theme of justice at all times, often misunderstood and dilapidated, especially by Grillo and his MoVimento, who invoked the gallows in any case, but not for his own child. [[Applause]] Being guaranteed, we wish his son to be freed from the accusations - which have not yet been formalized and I do not believe that there is still referral to trial - but Grillo with this language, with the gestures and words he used put a stone on his moral revolution. He was better at advertising yogurt, because then at least he made that language laugh. [[Applause]] It has already been said by Mr Sbrollini about the complaint after eight days. [[Applause]] Over the years, we have had discussions in Parliament to ensure that women have the right to complain. [[Applause]] At any time and at any time, because even in the domestic walls they do not have the courage, the possibility or the flexibility - I do not know what term to use, tell you - to telephone a barracks or a police station because they are threatened. We discussed this in Parliament and we made laws: we introduced the stalking crime and everything else. I don't know how the facts went and it seems strange that Grillo says he has the video: what is he doing with this video? Go to the D.A. and deliver it. As for the sexual affair with the video, it is true that there was a President of the Commission who had filled the house with cameras. We forgot this episode of some time ago: she was the President of the Justice Commission and she had put the cameras in the house herself. I'm not indignant, because Grillo was nothing, and this video shows that he was the absolute nothing. He wanted to teach law and democracy, but he showed arrogance, disrespect for institutions and self-defense, because he was his son. Respect the truth, respect women and respect the judiciary. He taught us things he didn't even know, he went back to advertising yogurt. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u138	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, I have to say that I am a little sorry - although I understand that - not to see all the representatives of the 5 Stars present at the end of the sitting, while they are used to making many of them. Apart from that, I say that I am not like Maramaldo, to whom Francesco Ferrucci addressed the famous phrase: "Vile, you kill a dead man." I'm not that, like Grillo is certainly not Ferrucci. I believe that he has great responsibilities: I do not want to remember in this House all the sentences of justice and to handcuff that Beppe Grillo has always said in his shows over the last twenty years. He has always been the protagonist of his judicial extremism, in fact, he has always used it to hit his political opponents, having perhaps little content. Its prince content was precisely the use of the judiciary, of that Jacobine being that certainly well done to this nation. I take note of this sudden change of Grillo and I must tell you that, as a mother, I understand it; the love for a child is so great that it has been able to affect the creed of Beppe Grillo of all these years. A child's love has made it clear something else, because - we have to say this, colleagues, clearly - this kind of justice is like cancer: when you don't feel on your own skin, you don't understand the devastation it causes. It is the same thing, ladies and gentlemen, when these bombs of summary judgments arrive or, worse, of prejudice within families. Cricket is now understanding how much harm he could do when he arrived in a family, because for him he had to be put in jail not who was guilty, but only the one who was not even investigated, but only suspect. And Grillo already made the jingle of the handcuffs feel. Dear Grillo (I address him), as a mother I understand you, because each of us to defend our own son would be ready to be killed. Through this sudden change I have to say that I understood Cricket two things, for before he also knows how to love. I thought he could only hate; instead I discovered that he also knows how to love. [[Applause]] I must also tell him that he who is wounded by the sword perishes by the sword. Cricket, you've invoked this prejudiced justice many times, and this time you have it in your house: I'm sorry, but you have to deal with it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u141	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with all the previous speeches and I shall begin my short speech by referring to an article published on the website "Il Blog delle Stelle" (The Blog of the Stars), which I think everyone knows: In Italy a woman is killed every seventy-two hours. The rape victims are about 650,000. Nine out of ten women, however, cannot report it. There is too much urgency to intervene, which is why we had to approve as soon as possible our proposal on the red code and anti-violence rules on women and children. We have provided for stronger penalties for those who are guilty of such serious crimes. And again: The 5 Star Movimento also wanted to insert the rule that lengthens the time to denounce the aggression for acts of violence: not more six, but twelve months. Such an important step is delicate and takes the time to mature. This article was posted on August 17, 2019, at 13:28. I made it clear that there was absolutely no idea that they were my words; you wrote it. Your leader definitely wrote it and shared it. I do not go into the merit of how he behaves, there would be others; I look at him as a man and today this man has made Italy ashamed. [[Applause]] In this House we often bring what happens in other people's homes. Let's talk about the women being abused, raped, or kidnapped in other people's homes, and discuss for hours and hours. Today, instead, we have to look into our home, because we have made Italy small and barbaric, because, when in a video it ridicules and degrades a serious crime, it becomes a country that does not progress, indeed we have gone back. It has somehow brutalized even more this young woman, who, if there is, will have to suffer a trial, with all the consequences of the case, and it will be another violence, because there is not only the crime committed at the moment, but there are the consequences that will be carried out for a lifetime. In some way he has delighted women and made the work that the Senate does, every time interventions are carried out at the end of the session to bring arguments in support of women in all sectors. I am not as good as Senator Garnero Santanchè, who rightly said that she understands him, because he is a father. I'm a mother too, and a lot of people here are parents. Sometimes parents have to teach their children what is good and what is bad and many times they are wrong and they have to wait. All I can say to Mr. Grillo is that he would have been right to keep quiet. [[Applause]] , because sometimes even the silence of a father is a teaching. Especially using social media and its public role was a very wrong teaching, because it also gave another version, it meant that with power it could do this. There is a judiciary and he himself, who has always said that it is the place of parliament for certain things, has confidence in his son, in the judiciary and in silence, as many others do. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u144	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, let us cool the atmosphere a little, but with an important fact. The umpteenth seizure of an illegal illegal discharge, found in Acerra, with spilling into the waste water of the Regi Lagni, draws once again more attention to the very serious situation of uncontrolled spills of special waste illegally poured into the environment and, in the specific case, in the series of channels that branch out into the territory of the outskirts to North-East of Naples and in the southern part of the province of Caserta, which constitute and fall within the system of the Regi Lagni. All the real crimes and environmental disasters that continue to occur in these territories, in which - let us not forget - the so-called land of fires is located, devastate our lands, poison our waters and pollute our territories. Illegal disposals insist on our territories, careless of the cries of pain that rise from all sides every day and of the very serious and guilty consequences of the environmental disaster that they are causing. They represent one of the most abject demonstrations of the point of no return to which human cravings have arrived and the absence of a sense of responsibility and belonging of some characters, which we could call true beasts, which, insulting the law, do not stop even in front of the many victims that the poisons that they discharged without control unfortunately cause, in an uncontrollable escalation, with a causal relationship now proven, without a shadow of doubt, with the most varied pathologies, in the first place those cancers, that affect our community, without saving any age group. Despite the activities of the Carabinieri, and in particular of the forest, to combat environmental crimes, these environmental disasters continue continuously, they continue on a periodic basis and they are not really able to stop. Tyres, plastic and ferrous materials, sheaths, polluting liquids, resulting materials, residues from tanneries and a whole series of special waste are disposed of and disposed of abusively without any precautions and without complying with the procedures laid down by law. The end result is that our territories are poisoned. A crime committed against the environment in which we live is a crime committed towards our future and our children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u147	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, there is another video filming these days by the website www.notav.info on men's throwers. You can clearly see and feel men of the Forces of Order and the Arm of the Carabinieri in an anti-riot estate, in a wooded area behind a fence, repeatedly shoot tear gas at man's height, at night, towards a plain from which they come singing. These days they shoot photos of a girl, an activist no TAV, Giovanna Saraceno, with her face topped by a tear gas shot at a man's height, which has produced two brain bleeds and multiple fractures to her face. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, do you report facts you have direct knowledge of? Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). He has a 25-day prognosis. She was wounded during an eviction action in Val di Susa, a disproportionate action of the Forces of Order. There are no more words to describe what is happening in Val di Susa, a real military occupation of the territory, read on the site. We cannot continue to pretend not to know and not to see that the decrees-laws on immigration and security, which have not been modified for the security part, are the basis of these tightening ups and of the many arrests and arrests in the country, in an increasing compression of constitutional rights, which are also instrumentally aggravated by the serious pandemic crisis that we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u148	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-317.ana.u149	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 21 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.43.
