ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:01 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u6	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, on 24 February we filed an application for the establishment of a component within the Mixed Group. It has been sixteen days since then and, since the Presidency can authorise the establishment of a component or, in case of doubt, to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we would point out to you, Mr President, the importance, in this situation in which the majority involves almost entirely the forces of Parliament, of having the opportunity to make an organized opposition, including through the forms indicated by the Rules of Procedure, which precisely provide for the formation of members within the Mixed Group. At the moment we are six parliamentarians who want to constitute us, under the name of "L'Alternativa" there is, in a component, already authorized to the House. The delay or, worse, the denial of the constitution of this component compresses the possibility of opposing in organized form, not as individuals, but as collective, representing a greater community present in the country and which is not represented in this Parliament at the moment. We therefore ask you, please, to make a decision in favour or against and to let us know.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u7	Senator Crucioli, this issue has already been mentioned yesterday in the Conference of the Leaders. We will report back to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2077. I call the President of the 7th Permanent Commission, Senator Nencini, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission finished its work a short while ago without giving the rapporteur the mandate. We had been informed, since yesterday, that the government would probably put the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Nencini's report, the draft law No 2077, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to ask you for permission to submit the written text of my speech, so as not to delay too long.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u12	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u13	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are about to convert into law is a decree-law issued by the previous Government, which, in essence, has had to intervene, with considerable urgency, on the reorganization of the functions of the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI), because, following the findings of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), it had to be equipped with an adequate organic plant and organization, without which it was likely to remain excluded from participation in the Tokyo Olympic Games. This would obviously have been a blow to our entire sports system and our Nation system, not only for all those who see in sport a way to improve their living, their health and their spirit, but also for all those who, as enthusiasts, in this period of so high difficulty, have found in sport a vent, an outlet and a possibility to escape from a daily life that is obviously very difficult. The measure under consideration is very simple in its structure, because it is aimed at meeting a specific need, so it does not contain many political ideas. Basically it consists of four articles: the first restores the organic plant of the CONI; the second redistributes the resources between CONI and the society Sport and health SpA; the third indicates the clause of financial neutrality and the fourth regulates the times of entry into force of the aforementioned decree. In my opinion, therefore, much more important and much more interesting than what it contains, are the reasons that led to its adoption and, above all, what it does not contain. This parliamentary term has now passed half its natural duration and that its purpose is physiological or pathological, for reasons which might still arise, obviously there is not much time left to work in this Parliament. I therefore believe that discussing what is lacking in the decree-law at our examination could not only be useful in the context of conversion, but probably also necessary, because, having no more time, we might regret the fact that we did not immediately start discussing what would be necessary for our sports system. I said before that the idea was to participate in the Olympic Games and, in my opinion, this already allows me to make a first link between the importance of sport and the everyday life of all of us. In fact, sport has not only a limited value to those who practice it. We know that it can be practiced not only on a competitive level, like that which has led to today's debate, but can be practiced by many enthusiasts who, in doing so, improve not only their psychic state, but also their physical conditions. It is universally recognized, in fact, that sport is probably the oldest, the most effective and the healthiest method of life. I call this "method" because it is shown that those who regularly do sports take advantage of it and even improve their physical conditions. All this in order to say that the decree-law at our examination, which could only be structured in such a simple way, being aimed at satisfying a specific need, could have and perhaps should have, even if perhaps not in the short time that we had available and with the needs that were intended to pursue, contain additional measures for a sector that, in my opinion, is so important that it would have deserved much more consideration. A year and a half ago, when discussing the reorganization of the Ministries, I found myself, again from this point of view, to highlight the need for a Ministry for tourism and, even if with an important delay, we finally arrived; I would therefore like to propose today a similar idea of reflection and highlight, for another sector so important in the life of all of us, the opportunity, probably the usefulness and the need to prepare a special Dicastery. In fact, let us consider how many people practice sports at a competitive or amateur level or follow sport while not practicing it and above all how important sport can be for our body spirit, for the ability of aggregation it creates and for the passion it arouses in all of us, even in those who do not usually follow it. A current example is that of the Red Moon. Although sailing is an area of which the vast majority of Italians probably do not care for much of the year (or years), when we report results such as those obtained by Luna Rossa and we get international visibility for the victories it reports, here we feel proud and proud of the fact that it represents our own nation. As a Marcher I could give another example: very few people follow the volleyball, but, when the Lube achieved certain results internationally, we all felt proud to have such a reality in our territory. All this to say that sport can unite us, especially at a time of difficulties like the current one, when the pandemic is putting us all to the test and we have a desperate need to find that sociality that only a year ago we took for granted, but that now seems almost like a chimera and a goal practically impossible to reach, given the discomfort that is investing too many people. Well, in a time of difficulties such as what we are going through, characterized by psychological suffering, as well as physical - because compulsion inevitably has physical repercussions too - enhancing sport could be a way out, obviously at zero cost to the state, practicable by everyone and could improve not only the quality of our life, but also social relations and our relations with others, and therefore make it possible to get out better, faster and I do not say painlessly - because I fear that it might not be possible - but in a more easy way, yes, from the difficulties we are experiencing. In view of the limited time available to me, I would like to point out a number of points for reflection which, in my opinion, should be contained in a measure subsequent to this which we are debating today, which, for obvious reasons, could not have contained such rules. I am thinking of the 19 associated sports disciplines, which are structurally and functionally as federations, but do not have that rank. This implies limitations in the allocation of funds, because, obviously, they do not have that qualification, they do not have the possibility of drawing on certain funds. Let it be clear, however, that what I am proposing is not to allow these disciplines to divide the pillar provided for all federations, because it would be like asking to make a wedding with mushrooms, to use a popular saying, and probably trigger a war among the poor. My intentions are different. What I would like is for this very important sector to be endowed with the appropriate resources also for these disciplines that have such peculiarities that, even at international level, it has agreed to start experiments to ensure that some can participate in the Olympic Games; they have hundreds of thousands of members throughout Italy and involve the life and everyday life of millions of Italians. Mr President, I am going to conclude, because time is unfortunately tyrant. In my opinion, these associated disciplines should have the dignity of federation; the State should also commit more resources to meeting their needs, in order to allow all those who are represented in these disciplines to practice the sport they love, without the limitations they now have. A further advantage would be the facilitation of international relations, which clearly a federation can satisfy in a much easier and more effective way than a discipline not recognized as a federation can do. I would have liked to propose other ideas, but unfortunately the time is too little and it does not allow me. I hope that we will see the positive spirit of this intervention, which wants to be an incentive for us not to waste the time we do not have to get to the discipline of a sector that is fundamental to the life of all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u15	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u16	Mr President, I have to say, unfortunately, that the subject of sport is being dealt with in a somewhat ambiguous manner by today's majority. I try to reconstruct the facts briefly. Decree-Law No 5 of 2021 was the last act approved by the Conte-bis Government to prevent sanctions from being imposed by the International Olympic Committee which would probably have resulted in the absence of the Italian flag at the next Olympic Games in Tokyo. The content of the act, however, could have been quite different. Just look at the text of the amendments, deposited also by the majority forces in 7th Commission (including those of the Movimento 5 Stars and even of Forza Italia), with which it was explicitly asked to reduce the multiple concessions made by the Government to the CONI. No parliamentary proposal, however, has been adopted, because the Commission has decided by a majority - of course with us against it - to put the decree as it was to the House, and therefore to the vote of confidence. I therefore ask myself, the House and all the citizens concerned what is the reason why the decree increases the number of executives of the CONI, suddenly increasing the relationship between officials and managers: why give the Committee more resources, subtracting public contributions to sport and health, department that we had created with the first Count Government? [[Applause]] For us, sport is not only agonism, competition, power and money, but also social inclusion, well-being and health of citizens. Why transfer ownership of a property of particular importance such as the sports center "Giulio Onesti" back into the hands of the CONI? I would remind you that the reform of the sport desired by the former Minister Spadafora has been totally abbreviated, because on the subject of the renewal of the mandates of the President of the CONI has not been found a square. Fortunately, the risk of an unmotivated reverse, which had also been feared over the other delegated decrees approved in extremis, has been thwarted. The emblem of the promiscuous union of the new forces that support the Government Draghi can be summarized in this event: in the Education Commission, the Italian Group Viva had asked, as a condition for the approval of the legislative decree on professional and amateur sports bodies, to foresee the transfer of the holding of the register of sports associations back to the CONI, after the government act had moved the competence to the Department for Sport of Palazzo Chigi, or in fact demanded its abolition. Probably, however, in order to get that package of reforms done without too many obstacles, something had to be given to the CONI and it was done on a tight run, in Decree-Law No. 5 of 2021. I am referring both to the drafting of the text of the decree-law and to the conversion phase, in which the senators were precluded from approving amendments which would have brought the final outcome within the limits of greater impartiality and fairness. I say this with regret, but the original position of the Movimento 5 Star on sports governance did not really provide for greater public contributions and transfer of real estate properties to the CONI, an additional staff allocation compared to the current one and an unmotivated increase in the number of managers. I remember that, during the last parliamentary term, the issue of the limit to the number of mandates was straightforward. It was stated that it wanted to maintain the mandatory limit of the two mandates for the most important public positions, from the parliamentarians to the top grades of public bodies or societies, CONI and sports federations included, and it was said that the reform, which increased from two to three the mandates of the federal leaders and the CONI, including the President, not only would not guarantee the normal alternation of presidential and management positions in the world of sport, but would crystallize them, as if sport were a private, almost personal issue, on which parties are interested exclusively in exercising their influence and power for the purpose of consensus. Well, we parliamentarians of the "Alternative there is" component want to represent that position that was already of a movement that is no longer there and that a phrase of that original program, now completely unawaited, sums up well: "liberate the world of sport from interests that have nothing to do with the growth of the Italian sports system, working to ensure that the summits of the most important administrations are chosen according to meritorious criteria adequate to guarantee its good performance". In fact, our amending proposals had a clear political connotation, which was to reduce the donations made to the minimum necessary, without further indulgences not due. For these reasons, we shall vote against the conversion of the measure into law, which represents a decisive reversal of the direction taken so far in the field of sport. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, the decree-law that we are debating today and that Parliament will be called upon to convert into law was one of the last acts of the previous Government. We all remember the climate and the manner in which the measure was deliberated. There was great concern, given the alarm bell launched by the president of the CONI, Giovanni Malagò, who had in fact denounced the risk that Italian athletes could go to the Olympics in Tokyo without our tricolor and the national anthem. It was a sanction that the International Olympic Committee (IOC) could have imposed on our country, if we had not guaranteed, as then with the approval of the decree, the autonomy of an important body such as the CONI: a humiliating situation. All this would have had adverse consequences from the sporting point of view and devastating from the point of view of the image of our country; it is an aspect that assumes even more importance, if we think of the weight and what our tricolor represents in a country like Japan, but in general in a geographical area like the East, in which the Made in Italy is definitely a recognized and recognizable brand. Only the approval in the Council of Ministers of this decree-law has therefore avoided the worst. However, bitterness remains in the mouth for how the whole issue was handled, for the conditions in which it was had to be quickly avoided a danger that a serious country, such as Italy, should not run in any way. We all know - and we have been saying this for several months now, even in this House - that what we are experiencing is a unique and complex phase because of its exceptionality. The pandemic has had a very strong impact on the productive and economic fabric, but it undoubtedly has an important importance and impact in our lives not only from the economic point of view, but also from the social point of view. Sport, like the world of associationism, has certainly suffered a very hard forced stop, to which the Covid forced us all. If the top sports championships had the opportunity to continue their journey with all the precautions provided by the Technical and Scientific Committee, against amateur and non-professional sport did not have the same possibilities. This has perhaps made us even more aware of how clearly sport plays an important role in our lives. Allow me, Mr President, to open a parenthesis here, saying that what is happening in our cities, because there are so many users, young people and adults, who are prevented from enjoying amateur sports in indoor spaces, is not only an important damage to the quality of life of people, but it should also lead us to ask ourselves about the criteria that the Scientific and Technical Committee has decided and resolved to ensure that at certain levels we can organize and restart and others do not. I would like to point out that the Politecnico di Milano has recently released a scientific study with which it raises some issues that apply to sport, as well as to the school and to all closed spaces, such as catering. There is not only social distancing as a parameter to define the criteria for limiting the spread of the virus. To calculate the probability index of a contagion in an indoor environment, the user density square must be multiplied by the spare air volume time. Now, Mr President, it will be understood that even in a closed space where sport is practiced, this parameter is easily calculated and can be compared with those of school, catering and business. I invite the Technical and Scientific Committee and the Government, addressing the representatives here today, to deepen these scientific aspects, so as not to help better those who want to restart the country for the sake of doing so, but to allow to have scientific certainty and to share in a serene and quiet way to some activities. I'm closing this parenthesis. Mr President, within such a framework, the Government has been called upon to intervene in extremis, moving in a complex phase for the world of sport, also due to a reform that in 2018 gave rise to an inequality between the functions and resources attributed, on the one hand, to the new structure Sport and Salute SpA and, on the other hand, to those left at the disposal of the Italian National Olympic Committee. This last aspect certainly leaves some perplexity, given the unchanged skills and functions that are left to an entity like the CONI, which has played an undoubtedly important role in the course of its history. Here we can tell ourselves that precisely this plant and the conditions given have led us to weaken and question the autonomy of the CONI. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) itself represented a series of complaints about the role, mission, authority and responsibility of the IOC, subject to compliance with the minimum requirements of the Olympic Charter. It was claimed that CONI's staff could not be hired and controlled by an external entity related to Sport and Salute SpA, but that they should have their own organic equipment and administrative structure. This decree-law aims to achieve this goal, ensuring the full operation of the ICON, as well as its autonomy and independence. Article 1, paragraph 1, provides that the CONI is put in condition to have its own organic endowment, so as to be fully operational with respect to the functions assigned to it. Secured this aspect and prevented the possibility that athletes should renounce an Italian flag and an anthem, we arrive at the current situation, which calls a new Government to manage the stages that will come. In the composition of the latter, the box of delegation to sport has not yet been assigned. I hope this will happen as soon as possible. Apart from those who will have the responsibility to deal with a sector that is fundamental to the life of our Republic, I think that the conversion of this decree is only the first act of a reform process that will engage the Government in the coming months and that will have to see Parliament always protagonist. Mr President, I should like to make another point of order today. If Parliament wants sport to be put back in a position to exercise its functions independently and adequately, at the same time we cannot fail to ask sports to put athletes in a position to exercise their passion and even their profession at competitive levels in an appropriate and dignified manner. The story of Laura Lugli, the volleyball player of Pordenone who denounced that she was not put in the condition of living her motherhood as any working woman, I think is serious. [[Applause]] Let us appeal in this House for this story of sports chronicles at the highest level of national sport, so that they take the issue into their own hands and make the necessary effort to ensure that the workers and professionals of this important world also carry out their passion and function with dignity, in an adequate manner and in full respect of the norms of our country, of our Constitution and in a manner consistent and consistent with what other women engaged in other professions can do. Mr President, we are Italy and we are obliged to build a system that at all levels, in the autonomy of sport and in dignity for those who carry out the sport profession at the highest levels, demands that they be able to do so in an appropriate manner and in accordance with the challenges that await our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there would be little to say about the substance of the measure under discussion if it were not for the fact that the final figure that Italy risked doing had been widely announced by us when the delegation law was passed and the clash, which is still in place, between the vision of the self-government of sport and that of those who exercise public control by providing the resources. There are many political considerations to be made regarding the moment that Italian sport is experiencing because of the serious crisis that the pandemic has brought about. We are talking about a social representation that invests the attention of millions of Italians and a sector - perhaps one of the few in our country - still able to produce large numbers of participation. Nevertheless, this sector has often been underestimated and in the new configuration of the Government is even ignored, with the impossibility of being able to represent its own needs and demands and to have a constructive comparison, but also decisive of the historical problems and those connected to the dramatic moment. We of Brothers of Italy have immediately stressed and denounced that the absence of a Minister of Sport and, as we have subsequently verified, even the lack of the conferral of a delegation in the matter of sports policies represent a very serious vulnus of the new Government. As a Parliament we have also suffered a very serious mortification in the Commission because the adoption of the legislative decrees without the opinion, albeit consultative, of the Commission represented a first slap. In addition, I come to the House today with the measure without the rapporteur and the possibility of voting on the amendments in the Commission says a lot about the attitude that is taking place and also about the difficulties within the majority which, of course, as the Undersecretary has informed us in the Commission, feels the need to put trust in the basic text. Yet the Commission for Public Education, cultural heritage of the Senate - and I would like to thank the Members who are part of it - has shown that it is capable of confronting itself and sometimes even of taking a united attitude to the problems which concern the matters of its competence on which it should be easier to find agreements in the interest of the worlds we represent, albeit in the legitimate and sacred diversity of cultural vision of which each of us can and must bear. We have a vote of confidence which I think is absolutely ridiculous. A government with 90% of Parliament's support must put confidence in such a measure. We are at the third measure that arrives in the Senate and the Government Dragons is already starting to consume a record: two confidences on three measures. This says a lot about the unique thought that wants to dominate this phase that lives our Nation, with a party, Brothers of Italy, the only opposition party, which nevertheless strives daily to make proposals and carry forward a patriotic opposition. But, even in the face of our proactive attitude, we are literally forbidden to make our contribution. We consider it scandalous that a vote of confidence on this measure is being taken today in a few hours and that this House does not continue to work in the afternoon and tomorrow. We had asked to schedule a motion on cashback, we have been asking for it for fifteen days; but that is not possible and it must be done either. What idea of democracy animates the Government and the majority? From the first lines it seems to us an absolutely empty and totalizing idea, which, moreover, ignores the living problems of our nation. Back to the sport talk: the demonstrations that are taking place outside the Palaces give us a dramaticly sad representation of how much this world is experiencing, a world that has as its turnover passion and that has been abandoned to itself by a Government that evidently does not have a unique vision, a Government that does not listen to the demands. Yesterday in the House our party tabled an amendment to make sure that the pools and gyms can work in the yellow area (underline in the yellow area, for those who want to exploit). The amendment has been rejected, but it would have passed if those who have always said they were in favour of this solution had not abstained; you assume a great responsibility for a world that has been left alone and that has not received significant compensation. You keep saying, "Tomorrow we'll see, you can't work, and tomorrow we'll see." With regard to this, we tell you very clearly that Brothers of Italy will always be there when decisions will be in favour of the social body, which the provision deals with. But with today's vote of confidence you confirm that the Dragon Government is a government with clay feet. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u21	Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u22	Mr. President, members of the government, thank you for being here. Enough has already been said about this decree-law that comes to this House today. It has been said above all why it has come in this way and what we are voting on today. The Democratic Party has always, voting against the Giorgetti reform, said that the new system of Sport and Health SpA and CONI, emptied practically of its prerogatives, did not convince us and was not the right way to face the world of sport and all the educational system that lies within it and that the Democratic Party considers fundamental. It is therefore regrettable that the decree-law should be converted in this way, with the IOC making observations on the new organization of the ICON in our country. Those remarks have been brought to the attention of Minister Spadafora; here are all the Groups that, together with the Group of the Democratic Party, have participated in many meetings with Minister Spadafora in the past months to address the issue of sport reform. This was one of the most debated points, on which the debate was long and lively, but also constructive: however, we did not succeed in bringing it to the end. It is regrettable that, just at the moment when one is afraid of not being able to see the Italian flag, the tricolor, waving at the Olympic Games in Japan next summer and not being able to hear our national anthem resound when we win medals, which we hope there are many, the Government is pushed to adopt the decree under consideration, quite urgent, with all the controversy that has arisen. All this regrets because we - I repeat - believe that the world of sport has dignity and must always be regarded as a priority of the country. In this regard, I am making a request here, which has already come from others and which, through you, Mr President, I address to the Government: I am referring to the fact that we should quickly entrust a delegation for sport, so that there is a Undersecretary, but we would like even more a Minister, to be able to take care of this wonderful world. That's a point we care about so much about. We know how much there is in the country a connective tissue organized in associations, associations benemerito I would say: the basic sport, the beginnings to the sport, the amateur associations, that make sure that millions of people can have in Italy access to this important world, not only from the sporting point of view purely intended, but also for everything that goes with the sports disciplines practiced at all levels, from the amateur and amateuristic one in the beginnings for all the disciplines, until, of course, to the best professionals. I have already had the opportunity to say in this House, and I repeat, that the world of sport is a virtuous circle, because, when a champion in any discipline wins and brings our country to the fore, there are many young people, girls and boys, girls and children, who look at sports as a great example and who, in turn, are encouraged to take on a sport, regardless of discipline. Many times, thanks to the Olympic Games, which were a little 'the push for this decree, we have passionate about disciplines that for the rest of the year we had not considered and that every four years, instead, come to the fore. Our sports world is capable of producing and working with children and girls since childhood to grow champions, not only in sport, thanks to the examples taken from a sport practice carried out in respect of others, in the annulment of differences in race, religion and any other kind, therefore with a true integration. The CONI in all this needs to be independent, so it is important for him to be recognized everything that, starting from the staff, can guarantee him to be absolutely autonomous and to work, because this is what is required of this body that, together with other public or private bodies, owes and can make sure that all the sport activity in our country continues to be that wonderful wave that really manages to change the fate of the girls or the most disadvantaged children - many times we have seen it - that, through the practice of a sport discipline, they can somehow have a different life and realize dreams in the drawer. Politics has to deal with sports. As I have already said, the Democratic Party has always said so. We have voted against the Giorgetti reform, which we are now changing in some way. As far as we are concerned, we believe that sport is a priority: it is not just a matter of training champions, because sport deals with young people, with school and with young people, it intervenes in situations of social and economic distress. It is a very important element of development and growth for each of us. Sport is fundamental, as has already been said, in social development, at any age and in any part of our country. It is also fundamental for the health of each of us, because we know how the movement, at any age, done with constancy and with attention must be promoted to prevent so many pathologies that can affect even boys and girls of teenage age, but even more the people advanced over the years. Sport is prevention, therefore also from the point of view of health, together with the competent Ministry I believe it is essential to choose as a priority that of investing well in this area. As I conclude, Mr President, because I see that my time is running out, I say to you that we are waiting to see what is going on, but we are obviously in favour of this change, even though we think that the subject of sport, with everything it carries along, must be addressed in a comprehensive, comprehensive and thorough way. I repeat once again that in order to do all this we really believe that, as soon as possible, President Draghi should give a delegation on this matter or set up a Ministry of Sport to deal with it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law has become necessary to restore the independence of the ICC in accordance with the principles enshrined in the Olympic Charter, especially on governance and funding. As is well known, Italy has risked being suspended from sporting competitions with the humiliation of participating without flag and without the anthem; a contrast had been created with the Olympic Charter, which categorically forbids an Olympic committee to operate through the Government and today the society Sport and health is the operating arm of the Government, so in fact it was the Executive that intervened, regulated and conditioned from within the Olympic Committee. Therefore, in limine mortis, as we lawyers say, the decree-law under consideration, which equips the CONI with its staff (165 employees with 10 managers), with the possibility to complete it with the transfer of the personnel of the company Sport and health already dependent of the CONI. Finally, sports facilities and buildings specifically identified are transferred to the Committee. Needless to say, during the discussion in the Commission of the bill delegates our Group had signalled the criticalities and had asked to attend to some passages that then turned out fatal for the disputes of the IOC that have imposed to the Government a hasty turn back. We are faced with the usual case of a policy that leaves its task of directing, financing and verifying results and turns into a real manager with conditioning power. That is not what sport needs; that is not what it needed in this particular case. We had been easy prophets when we warned the then majority that we were on the wrong path. We have tried, during the debate in the Commission, to point out also some changes that could have made this measure even more consistent with the reality and the requirements of international bodies. We had proposed the repeal of paragraph 1 of Article 2, because from the examination of the tables we had verified that with this type of intervention the CONI has a saving of expenditure and therefore there was no need to aggravate its budget; we had proposed an amendment that restored the balance between CONI and Sport and health spa. We proposed, in line with Law No 145 of 2018, a distribution of roles: Sport and health SpA distributes the funds and the State supervises their use. We suggested the introduction of the temporary nature of the summit posts, in order to promote renewal and also rotation, because, if we do not intervene in this sense, real centres of power are created. We brought in the availability of Sport and health SpA the real estate units destined to the Institute of Sports Medicine, as located inside the complex Giulio Onesti, fundamental asset for the aforementioned company, and we transferred the properties of this institute to Sport and health SpA. Finally, we established the autonomy of the National Anti-Doping Organisation (NADO), as a national branch of the World Anti-Doping Authority. It was not possible to discuss these amendments and here I also come to a criticism raised by my colleague from the Brothers of Italy Group, who sees the issue of trust as a kind of continuity with previous governments. On the other hand, I believe that today's position on the question of trust is precisely an element of discontinuity with the previous Government and has a purpose of zeroing it. Let me explain: this is a measure that was not born within this majority, which is extraordinary and constitutes a kind of public health in the interest of the country. The present majority therefore found itself examining a measure that had adopted another Government. We had therefore two possibilities: the first was to deepen and bring our new sensibilities and perspectives into the provision, with the risk of lengthening the times, creating a dialectical confrontation even lively, and thus causing the decree-law to decay. So, we wouldn't have done something right if the purpose of the decree under consideration was to remedy the short circuit that had been created between our CONI and the IOC. The other possibility was to close the game, trying to cancel the previous one, along with some other residual measure, so that you could start with the new program and with the new legislative initiatives of the Government. The question of trust must therefore be linked to this goal. There is to be closed with the past, trying to open a new front, for which the Government and the majority were born, to solve the dramatic problems that the epidemic from Covid-19 created in our country. This is a dramatic situation from a health and economic point of view, with more than 100,000 victims and tens of thousands of companies at risk of collapse and the state, even with the extension of the integration fund, has tried to maintain a minimum level of employment. We therefore want to reset and close with the past, in order to begin the path for which the Government and the majority, responding to the appeal of the Head of State and taking on the expectations and needs of the country, were born. Therefore, today's is not a confidence in continuity with the past, but a confidence in discontinuity: we cancel everything and, from the next day, when we have hesitated all the remaining measures, there will be a new restart - as I imagine and hope: surely so - in which Parliament will be central and we will not be forced to examine the measures in an alternate way, once in the Chamber of Deputies and once in the Senate. There can be a debate, a debate and the possibility of making a contribution, both in the first and the other branches of Parliament, and the question of trust can become an extraordinary element and not an ordinary instrument, as it was until recently. Therefore, even if the measure under consideration does not exactly reflect our perspective and our philosophy on sport, assuming responsibility for the moment and also understanding the purpose of the measure - better late than never, to restore the authority within the international context of our country - we will vote in favour. We reserve at a later stage the possibility of opening a reflection in which to bring together all those elements and suggestions that here, because of the urgency and the reasons I explained before (it is a measure not ours that we inherited) could not be dealt with. So, this is better than nothing and better late than never: Italy returns again to play its role in the international sporting context. We hope that action can be taken in the future to improve those parts and those aspects which have not been able to be deepened here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u25	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u26	Mr President, the colleague from Forza Italia who preceded me, commenting on the conversion of the decree-law in question, concluded by saying that we take this "rather than nothing," reminding me of the late Senator Matteoli who always said "rather than nothing better than nothing." This was originally said by Giulio Maceratini, but Matteoli always repeated it. We are discussing a measure which provides for the possibility of voting on several amendments. The amendments were tabled by representatives of the Government in a completely opposite direction. Senator Sbrollini has tabled amendments which I consider to be improvements; other amendments have been tabled, strangely identical, by Forza Italia and MoVimento 5 Stars. Since this compact majority of national unity has not been able to resolve the difference between these amendments (that is, rather than anything better than anything), what has it decided to do? He's decided to put his trust in it. In a little while we will be witnessing the Government's declaration that requires a vote of confidence and thus makes the amendments tabled by Forza Italia and MoVimento 5 Stars and those of Senator Sbrollini no longer possible and impossible. At this point I am truly proud of the decision of the Brothers of Italy not to participate in this Government, because this is the first occasion in which there is to be discussed a decision made by the previous Executive, towards which - it is imagined - this Government wants to show a certain discontinuity and instead the discontinuity we find only in the difference, within, between political forces that have different visions for the world of sport. What does the government decide? I have to say: President Draghi, who I consider to be a person to respect, also decides not to decide. It puts trust and leaves everything to be avoided, in order to avoid rifts within that majority that for this reason we did not want to support. Never was the wisest decision and it is seen at this time. It is not that we are talking about little things; we risked, wrongly or rightly, that the Italian athletes at the next Olympics participated - think - without the Italian flag; therefore not representing Italy, but of themselves. This has been remedied by the last second, but a piece has been put on, which makes the difference with the rest of the scaffolding even more colorful and which is now confirmed by the decision to affix the trust. Mr President, when they explain to us that the contrast is ancient, that the contrast is between the CONI and a political force that was in the majority before and it is now in the majority, we who are old in politics understand everything. However, we do not understand the inability to resolve political issues. A government that respects itself, a majority that respects itself, at least on the issues that concern the representation of Italian sport towards the world of the Olympics, must find a synthesis; if they are not able and must take refuge in a vote of confidence, that decides not to decide and that, not to decide, does not address the problem, then it means that all the words spent on the possibility of this Government to make national interests and find solutions are thrown in the wind. Senator Sbrollini has tabled amendments; rightly, in my opinion (but you can think of it in the opposite way), she says that she would like more funds and would like to improve the relationship with the CONI and the world of sport: they respond in the opposite direction. I don't even want to say that my opinion is the right one. It may be that my opinion, which resembles that of Senator Sbrollini, but it is my personal opinion, is not correct. But who has the task of settling these differences within a majority? Of course, it would take the Minister of Sports mediation, but there isn't! This is a government which, despite the authority of the President of the Council, has not yet been able to resolve the conflict on the choice of the Minister of Sport. This competence was held by Draghi, who, however, will have other problems to deal with. I am thinking of the pandemic, the vaccines that do not arrive, the vaccines that are there but that are not yet fully used, not even those few that are there; I am thinking of how many doses we have been able to inject to the Italians: 1.7 million, that is to say to 3% of Italians. So far only 3% of Italians have been vaccinated with the second dose. It is said that it is a situation common to Europe: it is not true, although it is true that Europe has really sucked in this affair (I use a word that is not elegant because it is the truth). Can the United Kingdom, after Brexit, have ten better results? Could the United States of America, of the duo - in this case in the same direction - Trump-Biden, have wonderful results? You think that in the United States, in seven states, they have now removed the use of the mask. Think that Israel has a huge result. These are the problems Draghi has to face and I trust he can deal with them well. Brothers of Italy is ready to help him, if we identify a plan of serious vaccines and if we have vaccines; but it's good that they didn't give them to us, otherwise, since we can't use the few doses we have, to whom would we have blamed if all those who were expected had arrived? We hope to resolve, but certainly, with these moonlights, we can not even overcome the difference between the amendments of Senator Sbrollini and those of MoVimento 5 Stars and Forza Italia, united as one man (the case more unique than rare, so if they had been only of Forza Italia I would have looked at them more carefully, instead so I looked at them with suspicion, I must tell the truth). We cannot find a better solution than the vote of confidence, which makes sure that nothing changes and only a front unit stays afloat, while inside the Democratic Party crumbles, but we are used to it. We're at the eighth secretary in a few years. The secretaries change... [[Recalls of the President]] The President, who is also from the PD, is right to point out that time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u27	Like everyone else, when there's one minute left.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u28	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). He passes from secretary to secretary but continues to rule without ever winning an election. Rule without ever winning an election, but at least solve the problem of sport. Our vote will be against, not the measure, but the confidence that the government once again asked for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u30	Mr President, my speech will be monothematic but absolutely necessary because before I heard a colleague who rightly, since we are examining a decree-law that deals with sport issues, brought back to the attention of the House a fact that has little to do with sport and that has happened in my city, Pordenone, in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region, where a young volleyball player, crusher of Carpi - allow me to try, improperly in this affair that has a dramatic aspect, to make the issue a little more fluid - has been the subject of some treatment by the sports society Pordenone Volley. She has become pregnant and has therefore not been recognized - and this seems to be the object of the dispute - the rights linked to a period of activity that she has carried out. We know that the world of women's volleyball is not considered professionalism, so it would need special protection. We celebrated March 8th two days ago and I believe it is the right of women to have a family and children. I will not go into the matter of a matter which, from a legal point of view, has ended up in court, in the courtroom of the judge of peace (as I read from the press). It is, however, an affair that marks a rather prevaricatory attitude on the part of society to the extent that, with some common sense, it might have been resolved. I would point out that I do not know whether it is true that the contracts in the sector provide for clauses whereby those who become pregnant automatically have to leave the relationship with the company. I don't think so. I hope that these things will not happen, but I cannot fail to point out that this affair has aroused great attention and above all I do not think it can be said that Lara Lugli has harmed society because she has become pregnant. I believe that this is too strong, almost shameful, use of words that we should not use. I would have done without wishing to speak, but a previous colleague mentioned this case, which is part of the subject we are debating today. The world and the values of sport must also take into account the needs of sports women, who are entitled to a life and cannot be automatons. I can think of the case of Eastern athletes. We cannot think that our sport will become of this kind, because it really would mean that society does not progress but goes back. I apologise to this House for this speech, but I would like this to be brought to the attention of the representatives of the Government present. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u31	Senator Dal Mas, the subject has been discussed by many speakers. It is not by chance that everyone has put the emphasis on gender policies; the world is made up of men and women with equal rights, it is never superfluous to stress that. Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u32	Mr President, first of all very briefly in response to Senator Dal Mas, I practiced women's cycling in the 1990s at a professional level, but in reality it wasn't, because women's professionalism didn't exist, and I understand that there isn't even now; we are practically at the starting point. Women in sport do not actually have a contract of employment and are not protected as they should, and this happens because, if a woman gets pregnant, obviously she cannot have the ability to practice competitive sport, so it becomes very difficult to practice sport, so we should all be committed to putting real protection in favour of women who practice sports at maximum levels of agonism, therefore of professionalism. [[Applause]] I come to the merits of the provision, focusing on a subject that is dear to my heart. We are here today to discuss a decree-law on sport, in particular on the reorganization of the CONI; a technical and functional measure to the completion of that iter started with the budget law at the end of 2018, when the League was at the Government. In that budget law, in Article 1, paragraphs 629 and 633, the organizational structure and the state financing mechanism for sport were changed. In those same paragraphs the company Sport and Salute SpA was entrusted with the task of financing national sports federations, associated sports disciplines, sports promotion agencies, worthy associations, military sports groups and civil bodies of the State; this function, previously attributed to the CONI, while the latter remained the task of financing the expenses related to its own operation, its own institutional activities and the coverage of the charges related to the Olympic preparation and to all that follows. The decree-law under consideration today intervenes to reaffirm the autonomy of the CONI, as required by the Olympic Charter in Article 27, which, between the missions and the role of the national Olympic Committees, provides the possibility for the latter to collaborate with governmental bodies and non-governmental organizations, without prejudice to the need to preserve their autonomy and to resist all political, legal, religious or economic pressures that might prevent them from respecting the Olympic Charter itself. With this measure the CONI remains financially independent, with its own personal endowment. So, I'd leave the technicalities aside, and I'd come to the substance. Already only the name Sport and Health promises well. It was a fundamental step to distinguish clearly what is the activity of the Olympic Committee - which has to deal with sport in the strict sense, preparation for Olympic disciplines, everything that concerns the promotion of sport activity and in particular of competitive sport activity - by sport, instead, as a motor activity, as a health: I believe that this meaning is something else, something broader. For too long, unfortunately, there has been talk of sport in a reductive, generic way, including in this huge category all the motor sciences, with their qualified professional figures, including, for example, graduates in motor sciences. This is said by a person who has lived sport at all levels, starting from the sport lived as a playful, social and health activity, up to reach, as I said before, the highest levels of female cycling. I have subsequently experienced sport as a maintenance of the physical form that helps the body and mind and, unfortunately, the inactivity to which I have been forced lately, which gives me equally strong signals of how fundamental the motor activity for the psychophysical balance is. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, in this year of health, economic and social crisis, sports activities, like many others, have been closed down, have been subjected to rules sometimes meaningless, because practices of absolute necessity have been banned and practices have obviously been allowed contrary to logic. Let's say that the route travelled was opposite to the one desirable: prevention and preventive care were completely neglected. It is known, in fact, how physical activity, especially if supported by qualified professionals, has a proven effectiveness in increasing the immune defenses, while on prevention, but also on care at home, we have been totally inadequate and deficit. Young people were excluded from sports practices depending on the type of sport they practiced or depending on the body they joined. Let us not forget that national agonism is allowed, so many have played on this. Young people lacked physical activity, the sociality of sport and its teaching. The elderly have had enormous damage since they can no longer practice even that little exercise or motor activity aimed at the containment of the pathology, all forced to prolonged physical inactivity even with important psychological implications. As we all know, there has also been an increase in depression in healthy elderly people. Disability, which is so much beneficial from motor activity, has been abandoned to its own destiny this year. Not to mention mental disability, so lack of physical activity has led to obvious mental and physical impairments. Well, apart from the worsening health situation highlighted by the Technical and Scientific Committee these days, the evidence is that the psychological hold of a population is at risk. Through this company published with a promising name like Sport and health I hope a health reform will really begin in which prevention is central and motor activity is placed at the center of the health issue. When we have really focused on this important point, we will have really put in place a cultural leap in favour of the psychophysical well-being of Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u33	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u34	Mr President, sport has always played a leading role in the policies of Movimento 5 Stars. We of Movimento 5 Stars have always fought and we fight so that Italian sport can have a strong revival focused on transparency, so that there is recognition of the centrality of sport practice not only as an instrument of psychophysical well-being, but as a foundation of inclusion and aggregation. Many efforts have been made in recent months and many measures have been focused on supporting the world of sport at all levels, with the bonus for sports workers, grants for sports centres, associations and sports clubs. An investment of more than two billion euros to allow these realities to overcome the difficult months of closure, while knowing that the actual damage is irreparable. The one under discussion today is one of the decrees in the matter of sport dismissed by the two Count Governments characterized by important novelties that have had the merit of starting a substantial change within the Italian sports world, putting at the center of the policies the promotion and support to the basic sport, not only for today, but for the next decades, favoring a healthy renewal in a world that for too many years has been the victim of logical clientele. Important are the recognition for those who work in the world of sport and the greatest protection for all workers, regardless of whether at amateur or professional level, but above all recognizing equality and equal treatment for women athletes. For this reason, the affair involving a woman athlete is without justification, in violation of the protections expressly provided for in Article 37 of the Constitution and which our mother-in-law had included in this article with far-sightedness. Sport serves society, providing moments of excellence; now it is time to put the social role played by sports practice at the centre of this country because at the centre of a healthy country lies the sport culture, the founding value of a society. It must be recognised that even people with disabilities have been given access to the civil and military bodies of sport to exercise sports activity. In this sense I hope that the draft law on motor activity in primary schools can be approved, specifying that the undersigned has presented a bill in this sense, which provides not only for the exercise of motor activity since childhood, but above all for the teaching of a sport discipline - football, volleyball, basketball - that can give the possibility to everyone indifferently, even to the less well-off children, to approach sport, interiorizing the rules and moving away from deviant circuits, addressing the issues of nutrition and fighting obesity. As is the case in most Europe, sport is perceived as the right of every citizen whom the institutions guarantee by promoting a qualified and complete offer that leads to an ever-increasing broadening of the base of practitioners, but unfortunately this has not always been the case in Italy. Sport also promotes integration towards the most disadvantaged, so those protocols entered into by the Ministry of Justice with CONI or with Sport and Health SpA in favour of prisoners, adults and minors are worthy of relevance. In this sense, it is increasingly necessary to give the possibility that these initiatives can be formalised. Today a complex moment is closed concerning the governance of the world of sport and the autonomy of the CONI, having established an organic plant for the Italian National Olympic Committee and the allocation of the assets fundamental for the Olympic preparation. Thanks to the measure in our examination it was avoided that the efforts and sacrifices of our athletes could be clouded by a participation in the Olympics without our colors, our flag. At the same time, an essential principle has also been established whereby the CONI will not be able to move outside the stakes of a public body. Specifically, the full operation of the Italian National Olympic Committee and its autonomy and independence as a member of the International Olympic Committee are ensured, giving the ICC its own staff, including management staff. For the purposes of pursuing the institutional aims of the ICON, the text provides for the transfer to the ICON of specifically identified sports facilities and buildings. There is a need for a new vision that is able to exalt the essence of sports practice by paying attention to training, education and small and medium-sized federations; more balance between promotion and competition, less summitism in the structuring of the system in favour of a more inclusive and participated model, more investment in sport culture by devoting resources to school institutions and sports infrastructure, having to point out that to date there are still schools without suitable gyms. After two years, which have seen two changes in government and the explosion of a terrible pandemic, it is time for everyone to avoid unnecessary particularisms, sterile propaganda and to seek, on the contrary, a balance on the rules that can give reassurance and certainty to the world of sport, especially from the point of view of the economic sustainability of the system, allowing it to take that long-awaited step forward. The important thing in life is not victory, but struggle; the essential thing is not to conquer, but to fight. Taking inspiration from the words of Pierre de Coubertin, considered to be the father of the modern Olympic Games, I think it is necessary to say more strongly that our contribution will always be at its maximum in order to seek the best solutions. We will always fight to offer the solutions that civil society demands, that the sports world needs and that our country deserves. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u35	The general debate is closed. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendment, of the single article of bill No 2077 of conversion of Decree-Law No 5 of 29 January 2021 into the text submitted by the Government to the Senate of the Republic for conversion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u37	The Presidency takes note of the position of the question of trust on the approval, without amendment, of the single article of the bill n. 2077, of the conversion of Decree-Law n. 5 of January 29, 2021, into the text submitted by the Government to the Senate for conversion. The Conference of Leaders is convened at 11.45 a.m. to organise the debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.32 a.m. and resumed at 11.58 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the Decree-Act functioning CONI, in the text submitted by the Government to the Senate for conversion. We will go straight to the explanations of vote, which will begin at 1 p.m. after the House has been sanitized. It will then follow the call, which will end approximately at 15.15-15.30. The sitting is suspended until 1 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.59 a.m. and resumed at 13.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u39	We proceed to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2077, of conversion into law of Decree-Law n. 5 of January 29, 2021, in the text submitted by the Government to the Senate for conversion, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u42	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the measure under consideration aims to repair the fracture that has been created over the last three years with the body of self-government in the sports world. From the two previous governments there was an attempt to reform the world of sport. These are legitimate attempts, which had their reason to be in the importance of this sector for the economy, for the difficulties in many federations, but also for some bad sports performances: think of Italy's lack of qualification in the last football world. However, because of the Covid, there has been a difficulty in keeping the system is under everyone's eyes and this applies to amateurs and professionals, small and large companies, operators and plant owners, starting with mountain ones. All this makes even more urgent a system reflection on sport, through a reform that naturally does not affect the indisputable principle of autonomy of the sports world and its governing bodies. As established by the 2014 United Nations Resolution, sport, through the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and its national subsidiaries, must enjoy maximum autonomy to promote the values of education, health, development and peace throughout the world. Any form of discrimination is incompatible with membership of the Olympic movement and its maximum autonomy and neutrality must be guaranteed in order to develop these universal values. Without prejudice to these principles, my hope is that the provision for our examination will facilitate this discussion. The pandemic, in its various facets, has brought back to us all the importance of sport. We feel the lack of spectators in the stadiums and, therefore, the social and entertainment value of professional sport. We have felt the lack of great events, such as European football or the Olympics, as a phenomenon of celebration and brotherhood between millions and millions of people. We have also understood the importance of basic sport as a means of strengthening the forms of primary prevention, for a healthier population and with more effective immune systems. Today Italy is a country where so many people carry out ordinarily sports activities, but also where there are many diseases related to wrong lifestyles, such as the bad culture of food, which leads 46 percent of Italians to be overweight. We are not talking about child obesity, which is among the highest in Europe and represents a negative mortgage on health conditions throughout life. I believe that in sports policies the great question of the coming years will be how to encourage a mass sport practice as an ordinary element of the everyday life of all people at every stage of life and, of course, how to make sure that the professional movement continues to be a lever of our economy and an instrument for the promotion of Italy in the world. The previous government had considered creating a specific department for sport, thus demonstrating a special attention to this sector so important for the well-being and health of our fellow citizens. We very much hope that this Commission will also devote as much attention to sport, both from an organisational and resource point of view. And it is with these wishes that I announce the Group's vote in favour of the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u45	Mr Causin (Europeans-MAIE-CD). Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, once again we are voting for a vote of confidence in the Government on a measure that comes from the Counte-bis Executive: a decree-law that has become necessary to allow our athletes to bring the flag high to the next Olympics and to ensure that, hopefully, from the highest step of the podium can resound our national anthem, given the excellence we have in Italy in the world of sport. It is clear - the advance already - that the vote of the European Group will be in favour of the measure, because no one can assume the responsibility to leave our athletes without the heat of a flag and a nation behind them. However, I would like to stress once again here that, even on a seemingly simple measure such as the one under consideration, today the Government has been forced to put the question of trust in order to overcome those divisions that exist and that continue to manifest itself also on measures that are not of minor importance, but certainly less complex. This should lead us to a reflection in front of a majority that actually counts almost the entire parliamentary arc. Colleagues, then, it is necessary that unity of intent not only be the flagship one, declared to the agencies, but also be realized in the effective unity of the actions that can make us proceed expedited, also through preparatory work that contemplates, in the days preceding the discussion of the measures, both in the Commissions, and in the informal tables, the ability to find that synthesis that too often is not reached thus creates a situation in which, on the contrary, paradoxically the differences are explained, but does not allow us to do the work that would be needed in the Assembly if the instrument of trust is used, which should only be used in extraordinary cases because whenever we use it we take away from Parliament and individual parliamentarians the prerogative to intervene through the amendments and thus improve the texts. Therefore, together with the announcement of the vote in favour by the Europeanist-MAIE-Democratic Centre Group, I once again call on all the forces that support this Government to focus on the issues that will help us get out of the tunnel of the pandemic: health pandemic, but also economic. I remember in this regard, since we are talking about a measure dealing with sport, that all non-professional sport at the moment is still, and this is causing serious damage not only to physical and mental health, but also to the sphere of sociality, especially with regard to team sports. Today in Italy there is the possibility to practice only professional sport. And I remember that, even at the local level, any community has football and rugby teams, tennis clubs. I'm thinking of those sports that may be considered minor, like water polo and handball, which are all stuck right now. Our children cannot do physical activity, but above all social activities, activities that are a fundamental element for their balanced growth. We hope that, beyond this vote of confidence, which allows us to proceed quickly and to hide, once again, the differences that exist within our majority, we can proceed through actions targeted from the health point of view so that sports are not the last things to restart but the first, especially through sectoral vaccination, because physical activity is absolutely relevant. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u48	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Government, colleagues and colleagues, as has already been said in many previous speeches, I also certainly consider the decree-law in question to be very important for the world of sport and not only for CONI, which is undoubtedly the most important and representative body in this sector for many years. I would like to say at once that, like Italy Viva, we would have preferred a debate on the subject. It is a long time for us to work on this decree-law in the relevant Commissions, and I would also like to thank my colleague, Senator Verducci, who was rapporteur in the Commission. We have arrived in this House without giving a mandate to the rapporteur, and in this way we have not been able to discuss the amendments which have been brought to the attention of the Commission's classrooms by several political parties, starting with my Group. I would also like to thank the Undersecretary for his relations with the Bergamini Parliament, which in recent days has had to deal with this measure because of the failure to allocate a delegation to sport. As my colleagues from the other parliamentary groups have already said, I would like to reiterate in this House in the Senate that it is essential to grant this delegation as soon as possible, because the world of sport - like all vital economic, social and cultural worlds - has suffered immensely for more than a year because of the pandemic. And it suffers because, in the meantime - as we also saw in the event held yesterday in Rome of gym managers - the places where sport is practiced have been closed for too long, which are not only for recreation, but also for well-being. We know that for more than a year, starting with the motor education at school for our children and then going to the gyms and swimming pools, we have given up places, of aggregation and sociality, but also part of health and well-being. Let's think about the most fragile people, the disabled, the people who have chronic diseases, and how this has affected their lives. I also repeat from this House that the opportunity to talk about this decree allows me to insist on this issue. We must, alongside the drama we are experiencing, rethink the safety of those places that we know are safe. And we saw it, because their managers immediately thought about their sanitization, about their safety, investing so many own resources. So, I say, in the meantime, that's enough buffer solutions, and that's what I expect from the new government, which we strongly support, the new Dragon Government. We think that, safely, these places, like so many others that are reopening, must return to normal. This allows me to enter more specifically of that measure. It has been said this morning, also during the general discussion by my colleague Mr Beginini, that we had, of course, to solve an immediate problem: to allow Italy to participate, like all other countries, in a safe and normal way, with our hymn and our flag, in the Tokyo Olympics that will take place in July 2021. But let's also think about the many other events that will take place from here to the next few years. I think of the great event of Milan-Cortina and everything that we are already planning and that invests the economy and the revival of our country not only in Europe, but also in the world, to which everyone will look from an infrastructural, cultural and social point of view; great events that move work, culture, economy, history and traditions of our territory. The CONI represents, in the collective imagination, national and world, our reference body, because it is still equipped with all the functions and takes care of the actions that take place: from the basic sport to the great events that affect our country. The decree-law under consideration, returning to the original text, to the basic text without modifications, will not allow the CONI to assume full autonomy. And this is not a clash of personalisms. We have facilities: there are Sport and Health S.p.A., the CONI, and certainly other structures, which need to be revised, even in the absence of a Ministry of Sport, but which must not enter into conflict between them; structures that have to do a very valuable job, especially for our territories and for the sport of base, in full autonomy. As soon as the delegation to sport is entrusted, we have to go back to talking about this subject. We will vote in favour of this decree, because we are part of the majority and there is a vote of confidence, but the criticalities that I have highlighted will soon find them again and the government will have to put hand, just as it will have to put hands, immediately, to the reform of the sport. There will be implementing decrees on which a lot of attention will have to be paid. There is talk of women's professionalism, of sports work, of everything that also affects the everyday life of families, in every age group, because they all in some way embrace this great theme. We cannot abandon him then; rather, we must enhance him, strengthen him. We must think that, if we start investing in sport since our children are young, since primary school - there is a bill that lies in the Commission, which has the approval of all the parliamentary groups, on motor education already from the primary hiring the teachers of motor sciences - we will value sport and we will have those nurseries that will allow us to get to the great sporting events with many athletes. We made an appeal - also in the newspapers - today in the Senate recalling the story of volleyball player Lara Lugli: even society has defined her pregnancy as a damage to society itself. Here, Mr President, we would like to see such phrases no longer spoken by anyone in 2021. [[Applause]] There is a national fund, which we wanted first of all as women - from Italy Viva and the Democratic Party - and then as senators and senators, for the protection of the motherhood of the athletes that must be strengthened. And Minister Elena Bonetti talked a lot about it again this morning in an interview about the "Gazzetta dello Sport". Well, I think that women and men in the Senate will be able to team up on this too. Let's think about it because the small step we take today will have to return soon to the benches of the government to be deeply modified, and I know that the President is also very sensitive to the subject. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u49	Thank you, even for the quote, Senator Brollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u52	BARBARO (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government - few, I dare say; the most important point is missing, the reference to the holder of the matter - it is not easy for us to express ourselves by trying to bring to Parliament's attention arguments which can then be applied, complied with and interlocuted: what, however, has been lacking in these days. We've seen it and heard it in all the sauces. All the Members who have preceded us - whoever is more, who is less - have made explicit reference to this real habit of form - I dare say - which also has great political consequences. Let us then try to make a contribution in this direction. It is not simple - I repeat - but we must do so, because we owe it to the millions of practitioners, to the many operators in the world of sport, to the world of sport itself who expected the answers. Surely today we are going to give it, but let's try to understand how this measure will be put also possibly as a platform to carry out broader reasonings, that can lead in a much more important direction, that of a total reform of the sports system that we have been waiting for for many years and that - as we have seen in recent times - has absolutely not gone well. It is therefore a mortification for Parliament, which was unable to discuss on the substance the amendments that could have improved or even worsened the text: it did not matter, it was essential to be able to do so, because of the need to give more meaningful answers than the simplicity of the measure itself would have allowed. There was a need to move forward in a very precise direction, namely to give answers to a system. This was aggravated by another element: the failure to confer a mandate on the rapporteur; a total confusion; the impossibility of expressing itself in any direction on both improving and worsening aspects. It is not exciting, indeed - as I said - it is mortifying. You'd want to say "the sport, this stranger." And it would have been equally mortifying if it had not been issued in the right of arrival, in extremis, in the Cesarini area - to use a sports language - this decree-law, known as save CONI, which allowed to avoid another great mortification, the one that would have been suffered by our athletes in case it had not gone well or the mortification not to participate actively in the Tokyo Olympics; not to be represented by our national flag; not to be able to hear, in case of victory, the national anthem resounding at the Olympics, with the pride of all the athletes, certainly, but above all of all of us Italian citizens. I would like, for a moment, to rewind the tape and take a few small steps back to try to understand what the atmosphere was, what was the context within which the measure was issued. Let us remember the spasmodic - I dare say - media attention that has been addressed to it and all in the days before the government crisis. The possible sanctions had raised in an exponential way the attention to sport: all Italians were interested in this problem in parallel with the problems related to the crisis of the Government and, the day before the meeting of the executive CIO, finally our Government was able to issue the measure that healed the vulnus and in fact returned to the CONI the autonomy that had been damaged by the previous measures. The emphasis that characterized the incubation and development phases of the measure was surprising, because it gave us the measure of how much sports matter could be the subject of attention in our country. All the national news have opened the editions of their news reports reporting the fall of the Count Government in parallel with that of the issuing of the decree save CONI: our athletes were saved. There's been unprecedented media attention. I am not going to dwell on the ways in which the IOC could have sanctioned it, nor am I going to dwell on the democratic aspects of the IOC and its behaviour. This is not the point, this is not the moment; there will be other moments to be able to do so. I intend, however, to emphasize that the very high sensitivity that manifested itself in those days could be propedeutic to a development of the reasoning relative to the conversion into law of this decree that went in another direction. We have seen with pleasure the increase in the rate of sportsmanship, which we thought was somehow compatible with the subsequent development in the Commission and in the House of the measure. And instead, in fact, betraying all the expectations of the millions of practitioners, this instrument, which could have been a flywheel - as I said just now - in order to put into motion the mechanisms of discussion on the sports system, has not been taken into account at all as such: it has been considered in a truly sad way, as a point of arrival rather than as a starting point; a point of arrival, moreover, annoying, because - as we have seen - the majority did not agree, it has not found a way to resolve the contradictions that emerged within itself. As President La Russa rightly said, it was decided not to decide. It was decided not only not to decide on the merits of the measure, but also not to do so at a fundamental moment in the life of sport in our country, not going to identify the owner of the matter. And today, for the umpteenth time, we are unfortunately debating in total lack of intercourse. What political significance is there to give to what is happening with regard to this matter that we all love, at least in words? I don't know. I hope the government can give us an answer sooner or later. We, as an opposition, can do nothing but watch and try to increase attention, but trying not only to increase it, but also possibly to solve the problems that must be met by it. This aspect, linked to the interest of millions of practitioners and hundreds of thousands of operators - as was very well recalled yesterday by Giorgia Meloni in the Chamber of Deputies - should somehow lead to a more incisive solution to the dynamics of the world of sport that all of us, at least in words, love, even today, however, has yet another missed opportunity. It was thought that this measure could restore dignity to an entire section - as I have defined it - a starting point. It was also thought that this instrument should be the most appropriate to start from a discussion platform that would put order among the great contradictions within the Italian sports sector. We could and should have gone in this direction, but it was not possible. Instead, it has become - as I said before - a point of arrival that has synthesized all the problems of Italian sport in the albeit important participation in the Olympics. Sport, however, cannot and must not be just Olympics. It is essential for our nation to build a different sports culture, and we had the opportunity to start laying the foundations for a reasoning that went in a different direction. As we say in all the sauces - it is becoming a torment - both the operators of the world of sport that we politicians have not been able to give concreteness to the following statements: sport as a healthy and correct lifestyle, sport as elevation of the economic infrastructural and occupational aspects of the country also; a whole series of considerations that we affirm in all the sauces, but that in fact have not been able to find a place in terms of effectiveness within this and other measures. Sport deserved a different dignity, not the mortification that we have experienced today, because sport is health - as we say in all sauces - and deserves respect. And we, the Brothers of Italy, will do everything to ensure that the dignity it deserves can be recognized to sport, but above all the respect that is due to such an important matter. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u55	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the subject of sport is one of the building blocks of human nature. Anthropologists tell us that it is the sublimation of hunting and war, something that somehow embodies the nature of modernity. It is clear that a subject such as this deserves much more than a decree-law. This, however, is one of the few cases in which perhaps the urgency of the decree-law is absolutely evident to all and indisputable. Today all political forces have recognised the need to proceed quickly to the vote on the measure, and that is why we will be in favour of a vote of confidence, even in order to carry it forward. It is clear, however, that a point is being made with today. With today we must start serious and rigorous parliamentary work on the subject of sport, which tries to sum up the clearly different positions that exist between the political forces in this House, as they have tried to do several previous governments without being able to reach the conclusion of a process. It is clear that having a figure in the Government dedicated to the theme is a necessary and just fact; it is necessary for the general relevance of the theme, but also to be able to build a process of synthesis. And today the rapporteur in the Commission has given up in fact being able to present a report because the possibility of building a synthesis was not there. We need to clarify a few key points. We have a National Olympic Committee, which is fundamental and guarantees Italy's presence in international competitions; we must strengthen it and support it. We have a relevance to the basic sport in which we believe deeply. The history of the Democratic Party is of popular political forces that have invested in their tradition and in grassroots sports organizations as an element of democratic growth. Sport is definitely an element that concerns the physical health of people; it is definitely a place that concerns aggregation and fun, but it is also one of those places where you learn the practice of rules, of being together between different, of competing with each other not as an enemy, but as an opponent to which you recognize - when it is the case - to be better and to prevail. Such dominance, however, is never a suppression, a erase. It is a democratic practice: you learn the rules and democracy; you learn that in a relationship you are inside a system of rules. All this is in great crisis today. The pandemic, in this situation as in many others, has led to highlight what had already been built over time. Even the incredible news event, which many colleagues have emphasized today and which concerns the condition of an athlete, shows that all the major axes of the issues that cross society can find in sports practice and in the sporting image of extraordinary messages of response - let's think about the fight against racism and differences - or completely wrong and opposed. We believe - particularly as a Group - that the function of women's sport, the full participation and equal opportunities of women in sport are fundamental elements in order to make our society fairer, equal and more equal in the difference. Women can learn in sports practice from girls that their role is exactly equal to that of boys. You change a company even by investing in sports practice. For all these reasons, we believe that today's is a necessary step, due and absolutely appropriate, but that it has not solved and touched on the subject which we, as the Education Commission, as the Group and Parliament, want to dedicate ourselves to. I am against a positive climate in this House today. We discussed the decree in a civil way. Different points of view have emerged and the vote of confidence has also been accepted in an absolutely shared way. It is certainly the climate of this Government, but in this case it has also concerned some of the opposition forces. Let us start from this point and let us treasure it; let us make it a parliamentary priority in this House and we strongly ask, in the concluding message of our declaration, that there be a figure in the government that can become our reference and with which from the next few weeks we can start working to give Italian sport all those answers that are needed and that are still not there today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u58	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, it is clear - we cannot hide behind a finger - that using the vote of confidence to approve a decree-law such as this is a bit unusual, even if we are now used to the vote of confidence. It is clear that it has become the only solution to approve a decree coming from the previous government. I repeat that the decree had become necessary after the International Olympic Committee had started an investigation to understand the impact of the constitution of the Sport and Health company on the autonomy of the CONI and the respect of the minimum requirements provided by the Olympic Charter. It was therefore a necessary step in which no one could have been taken away, as the failure to adopt the decree under consideration would in fact have resulted in the exclusion of our country from the Olympic Games (with our athletes who could not have participated in the uniform, the flag and the anthem), as well as a series of economic impacts not indifferent. The measure addresses another set of issues, such as the new organic plant and the relocation of staff. In article 2 it is expected that the CONI no longer uses Sport and Health and that the personnel of Sport and Health, already dependent on the CONI, will return to the CONI. There are therefore a number of passages which, in fact, mark the autonomy of staff. Also urged by the speeches in general debate and the explanations of vote that preceded me, I think we should all understand that the sport sector deserves not only a debate in this House, but also a series of speeches. A reform had begun - like it or not - even with the Government Count I, who had established the Sport and Health society, and even under the previous Executive was proceeding with the adoption of legislative decrees, but we all know that that reform, as is clear, had not been shared with the CONI and there were a number of problems. That's the situation. I believe that this issue deserves further consideration. Beyond what the current majority and opposition are, I believe that it is absolutely necessary - and I say this very seriously - not only to hold a general debate, but also to take a series of initiatives to understand whether the legislative decrees must go on in their path. I would point out that the last decree adopted (it seems to me to be the fifth) concerns the question of staff, especially with regard to amateur sports associations. The issues we are discussing are therefore very important and we need to hold a debate between ourselves. We must not hide the fact that, beyond the autonomy of the CONI, it is a strong interest of the State not only to protect, but also to encourage basic sports associationism and above all sport as a factor of motor education, participation (I think of children) and prevention for the health and healthy growth of young people and young people. To do this work and give great importance to these aspects that I consider absolutely fundamental (even if we know that sport is very business) we probably have to come to some choices. For example, should everything remain, with the management of the sports federations, at the CONI, or is an important intervention of Parliament and the Government necessary to ensure that basic associations are highly valued? The risk, in fact, is that only the business remains and the repetition of some very serious events that occur also in the world of sport. It is yesterday's news of the athlete of Pordenone who was discriminated against only because of the fact that she communicated her state of pregnancy; this says a lot about gender discrimination, which are very strong in the world of sport, more than in other areas. In this there is also a responsibility on the part of those who have managed the federations; we must not hide things. I believe that all this is very important and significant, otherwise it is only business, it is only an economic factor, although very important (we certainly do not have to be naive or mammal). I hope that this debate, after the vote of confidence, will result in the assumption of responsibility by the Government and the competent Commission, so that very important elements of reform are introduced, which give strength to basic associationism and sport as a fundamental element of the education of young people and not only; for example, we know how important it is for people of a certain age to have access to sports practices. It is necessary to give strength and weight to the great social role that sport has and will still have, accounting and intervening on the distorting elements of those gestures, which have been there for many years and that I would not want today, with the claim of autonomy, to come back in some way as dominuss of the whole sports world. We face the passage of trust as a necessary moment to ensure that our athletes and our teams can compete with the flag and in the name of our country, but we do not make the whole issue of sport fall into oblivion, especially as regards its social function, consecrating another time a management that at this point risks being a return to the past. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Senators of LEU and the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u61	SACCONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, what we are discussing today is to supplement Law No 145 of 2018. You go to outline the boundaries of action of the CONI and the society Sport and Health. At last we know who, what and especially how both structures will have to act. I think that, thanks to this decree-law that we are about to convert, finally the CONI will implement not only its resources in terms of liquidity (if I am not mistaken it will have about 6 million euros more), but will have more staff (from 111 to 165 units) and will have an increase in its assets. The CONI will become a subject capable of fully exercising its functions. At the same time, the Sport and Health company will finally have a framework and a framework in which to act; no one has ever questioned the autonomy of the CONI, nor the fact that both societies could diverge, because they play totally different roles. The Coni, representative of the Government, plays a role linked to high-profile sport and major competitions, while Sport and Health - as my previous colleague said - deals with basic sport, promoting sport and fighting against those phenomena for which, perhaps because of the pandemic, unfortunately the younger generations tend to be unactive from the point of view of the movement. The results are before everyone's eyes. We have a structure of the CONI that in recent years, unlike other European structures, has been able to defend the cleanliness of the world of sport [[Applause]] , has been able to defend the purity and value of sport. I just want to remind you that we had the honour of hosting the Winter Olympics, a great result of the country. As for the Sport and Health company, I read on the site that during the pandemic it was able to build, for example, a digital platform for which we finally know how many collaborators in the world of sport. We are talking about 155,000 people: all of them have been paid - unfortunately not enough - more or less 500 million euros of refreshments. So can the two functions interact without getting in the way of each other? Absolutely. The challenge, dear friends - I say this without any inflaming, because perhaps the debate should get out of this hood a little - is to say that, unlike what a colleague said earlier, there was no clash of power or power between the CONI and the Sport and Health society. This interpretation is wrong. There was simply a heated, harsh and rough confrontation between the two structures to defend the agibility of both. As Forza Italia we appreciated this attitude, because we are talking about two excellences of our country - on the one hand, the President of the CONI and, on the other, the President of Sport and Health - two excellences in front of which you can certainly not delude that they go to the bar, they pat each other on the shoulders and say: What do you need? What do I give you? They defended their agility and did well. If they had been to inverted parts - Malagò to the presidency of Sports and Health and Dr. Cozzoli to the presidency of the CONI - they would have done the same. For this reason we also enjoyed a bright and harsh comparison. But let's say no to the fans, because this hurts the world of sport. In the Commission, our Parent Company, Senator Cangini, worked to shorten distances on the advice of our Group president, Senator Bernini. No typhoseries and yes to every effort to find a synthesis between positions. That was the attitude of the Forza Italia Group in the Commission. We believe that, if ever there was this heated debate, it was mainly due to a lack of legislation, which meant that everyone could say everything they wanted. Today we finally give certainty of action. Mr President, in our view we have a great opportunity today and the warning we are sending, not only to the world of sport, is that we are able to make a system. That is the real challenge. Today in Parliament, thanks to the wisdom of the President of the Republic, we had the ability to cancel, on the contrary, to put aside our differences in order to converge on a synthesis called President Draghi, in the interest of the country. It would be wrong if this spirit were not grasped, not so much by the world of sport that awaits it, but by those who represent it. This is the real challenge we face and - I repeat - we must not make the mistake of being partisans or supporters of one another. I met and had the opportunity to appreciate the President of CONI, when I was President of a City Hall in Rome. I appreciated the qualities of a man able to make social inclusion, which made available to our territory a prestigious national circle of which he was President. The same can be said of Dr. Cozzoli, a man of state, a man of institutions, who has renounced the role of head of cabinet to devote himself to his passion, to sport. Today we are addressing this issue and we are convinced that we can all meet this challenge. It is obvious that the game is not closed; it is obvious that from now on a new table can be opened, hoping that we will have a representative of the Government who will give dignity to the world of sport, who frankly deserves it, and who has already paid a very high price, as my previous colleagues said, on the subject of refreshments, on the difficulties of operating, on the costs that had to be incurred. It is not enough what has been given to the world of sport; we must give certainties, in the context of prudence - it is clear, none of us wants to be unconscious - but that of sport is a world that unfortunately pays a high price and we cannot pretend at all today. I hope, also as a member of the Budget Committee, that we will finally be able to deal with the issue of the rest of the world; we had to do so in January, we had to do so in February, but we are at the beginning of March and still the decree-laws do not come to the examination of the House or of the competent Commissions and the people outside of here are waiting for us. [[Applause]] There are 32 billions to be distributed and it is a shame not to take up this challenge too. As we come to the conclusion, Mr President, we need the decree-law we are going to convert finally to law and finally to give clarity in competences and functions; no one is to be a fan; no one is to question the autonomy of the CONI, which has never been called into question. The challenge is to make system; for this reason the Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC will vote with full conviction for the support of this proposal [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u64	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Bergamini for, as has already been said in other speeches, this hot potato has been found - let me say the term - at any moment and I thank you, however, for the availability you gave at the meetings that were held during the meetings of the Commission. In the same way, however, I would like to thank all my colleagues in the 7th Commission who have had the opportunity to discuss this measure, including through the hearings. The text under consideration, for a strange case, finds almost unanimous consent because it is a decree-law that had to be issued as an emergency, that is, at a time of urgency due to the problem of the participation of the Italian compagine in the next Tokyo Olympics, which will still suffer a deficit, because it is yesterday's communication that will be carried out without the presence of the public; it will therefore be an Olympic event that will in fact be halved, because of course it can be followed only through the media and social media. Having said that, many of us have said (I summarize it, perhaps simplifying it, but only to make the point) that basically the IOC believed that the IOC had not guaranteed its autonomy, so the State had to give the committee an organic force so that it could carry out its activities. The term "autonomy" has returned several times during the preparation of the intervention, because even Senator Sbrollini just said that with these numbers you could not fully guarantee the autonomy of the CONI. I respectfully do not agree with this statement, because I believe that the decree-law under consideration guarantees to the CONI the possibility to carry out its functions; in fact, those who know this reality know very well that, both with regard to its central part and its territorial articulations, it will find itself in the possibility to carry out its elective functions, as it is doing regularly also in recent weeks. We must ask ourselves what is the autonomy of the CONI, because it must not be an objective. This is crucial to me. Autonomy must be a tool that the CONI uses to carry on the true sport spirit. In my opinion, we must emphasise this aspect, otherwise we lose sight of the real objective, which is to make sport known in its best qualities, such as being able to grow and educate; many colleagues have called for great and beautiful principles that I subscribe to because sport serves to combat differences, to integrate. On this day I have heard little of the term disability, but sport also serves the disabled, to ensure that they can really integrate [[Applause]] and feel real part of society, because unfortunately - we have to say - many times there is no true integration; integration is not only between the different colors of the skin and the genres, but also with respect to disability. I care very much about this topic and I always remember it. Having said that, we all agree that this measure should be adopted, it has been adopted and therefore confidence will also be given by our Group. However, one thing must be said and a reflection on sport must be made, which has been recalled by many, if not by all the Groups. My colleague, Senator Saccone, rightly said in his speech that the CONI must look at the area that is perhaps more federal and competitive, namely participation in the Olympic Games. There is also Sport and Health, which is another reality, more focused on basic sport. It is very important that these realities are able to speak and to dialogue: I agree with Mr Saccone that there must be no typhoseries in this area. Unfortunately, when we read some newspaper articles, we realize that typho-series are there and perhaps, here in this House, we must remind all the protagonists, at the managerial level, that typho-series must really be put aside. We always remember that sport serves, in fact, to integrate. I too personally attach myself to the request to create a dialogue between the Government and the sports world, not because Senator Pellegrini, the League or the Senate asks for it, but because the sports world asks for it. Those who have the opportunity to attend the field of promotion and federations know very well that everyone requires an interlocutor, also because in the past the interlocation had begun: here I take a step back, from a temporal point of view. I am referring to Minister Spadafora, who had objectively started a good job - I say this as a member of the League Group - because he had begun a comparison, giving a particular emphasis to what I care most about, namely the promotion of sport and social. There was an exchange, I also took part in work on this subject and I had discussions with Minister Spadafora. Then there was the most complete silence: the acts of government arrive in the Commission, the hearings take place and nothing is known anymore. I believe that this is a warning to the current Government, which has the numbers and the cards in order to complete this speech, but doing so in a proactive and objectively positive sense for sport. Beyond the slogans, we all play sports. In our families we all have contact with sport, because of our children, because we practice it directly or because we need it for rehabilitation. In fact, within the sport environment there is also the rehabilitation area, which is not emphasized enough. We must be able to create a real proactive and positive environment, because those who know the managerial and sports areas know very well that there is no more quarrelsome environment (so much that exceeds the quarreliness that we have here). Therefore, from the government and the people who are part of it, I believe that a warning, an invitation and a first card must come on the table. Let us all sit around, let us try to give life to less personalisms and let autonomy, which today we will consolidate by voting the conversion into law of the decree to our examination, be true and be directed towards the final objective. Otherwise let's just say a lot of nice words, we are all happy to see our athletes at the Olympics and we hope to do some excellent results, bringing honor to the various Italian sports areas, but then everything ends there. Colleagues, I imagine it happens to all of you to receive tons of messages and hundreds of phone calls, in which it is said that many beautiful words are spoken, but they have been closed for a year and there are those who may have received only two bonuses and those who have not taken anything for a year. This is the tenor of the phone calls and messages coming in. I hope that, in the next measure, sport will be worthily considered and used specifically for this term, because it is precisely about dignity. There are not simply those who use sports associations to mask commercial activities, but there are also those people - they are the majority - who work in sports for the good of their neighbors and for volunteering. We must therefore help these people: we owe it to our children, to the elderly, who can still practice sports and, as I said before, to the disabled. We can reduce differences if we recognize dignity to those who work within this sector. [[Applause]] I really hope that in the next decree there will be the possibility, the space and the sensibility - but I have no doubt about this - so that all this world, which perhaps we find in the squares a little' angry (and in part they are also right), can find support. We use this term, but we really support them: let us support them, because if we do not support them, who are members of this and who have been voted to do so, no one will do so. Sooner or later we'll have to go back to the streets and the gyms, but what's our face? I ask the government for this effort, obviously in perspective. I really hope that the demands that I have made, those for the provision of typhosis - as has already been said - and the fact that we are working for objectives, for sport, for society and for the well-being of people and our children, will really be met by those concerned. As I have already mentioned, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of trust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u67	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I give my explanation of vote, announcing that the Movimento 5 Star will vote in favour of the question of trust on the decree-law, I also feel I should mention, as my colleagues have done before, the question of volleyball player Lara Lugli: her story advises us to continue to work on sport and on all needs, in addition to this specific one concerning Law No 91 of 1981, related to professionalism in the world of sport. We are encouraged to consider that there are many issues on which we must take action in relation to the world of sport, not least that of the rest of the world that the sector should still receive. This is also why it is essential for the Government to create a corridor, an office to which we can address all the many issues that we need to address in the world of sport. Sport by its nature is the realm of human physical action and, as such, lives of the passion and athletic vigor of those who practice it. Therefore, in order to allow the subsistence of sport, the inescapable need to enshrine a set of precepts and regulations that would allow it to be carried out rationally, without affecting its nature and essence, involving the right to exercise itself in a protected and protected manner, erga omnes. Hence the self-dedication of the world of sport, from the highest institutional hierarchies, such as those of the IOC at international level, to those of the national committees, such as the CONI, to which the various sports federations of the individual sports adhere. However, this universal principle, valid all over the world CIO, was put in danger and bersagliato by a set of dispositions of a recent past, poorly calibrated with respect to the assumption from which we started; indeed, from the assumption on which the professional sport is based at world level. The vulnus was obvious and it was necessary to intervene with common sense and pragmatism. The explanatory report accompanying the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No. 5 of 2021 stated that since the first informal talks, as well as in the letters addressed by the President of the IOC to Minister Spadafora, there had emerged the initiation by the IOC of an investigative activity to understand the impacts that Law No. 145 of 2018 had on the organizational structure of the ICON and on the principle of autonomy and independence sanctioned by the Olympic Charter. The IOC had therefore represented - and we would say quite rightly - a series of complaints to Italy about the role, admission, authority and responsibilities of the IOC, subject to compliance with the minimum requirements of the Olympic Charter. In particular - continued the explanatory report - it was claimed that the personnel of the ICON could not be hired and controlled by an external entity attributable to the State (so Sport and Salute SpA), but should have its own organic endowment and an administrative structure. Hence the need to remedy from the legislative point of view with the bill that we are preparing to vote and - let me be allowed - hence the incisive ability of the Count Government to operate, albeit in extremis, through the provisions of Decree-Law No. 5 of 2021, composed of four articles and two annexes, which therefore aims to ensure the full operation of the CONI, as well as its autonomy and independence as a member of the International Olympic Committee, through the reconstitution of the organic plant and the allocation of the instrumental assets necessary for the performance of its institutional tasks, in compliance with the principles of the Olympic Charter and, in particular, of Article 27, paragraph 6, which, as said, establishes the autonomy and independence of the National Olympic Committees. This is especially so in view, as my colleagues have already said, of the participation of the Italian delegation in the 32nd edition of the Tokyo Olympic Games, which we all hope will begin on 23 July. We are talking, therefore, about a planetary showcase, wonderful and imposing, inside which we could not allow our dear Italy, recognized by history as the homeland of beauty, not to appear dressed in its best, most elegant clothes, in its most shiny and geometrically unexceptionable forms. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately - it is worth remembering - we had fallen into the temptation to politicize sport and we were forced to repair this rashness. The rule that we are voting brings the autonomy of sport back to the center of the village - thus paraphrasing a language that is usually used for the Olympics - and weakens the process of political interference in the full operation of the sacred path of sport self-declaration. The quality of the innovative discipline is remarkable and is subject to our attention and our responsibility as legislators. The ICON is provided with a staff of up to 165 staff, of which 10 are non-general management staff, so that it can be fully operational, autonomous and independent as a member of the International Olympic Committee. The organic envelope allows the ICON to carry out the tasks related to its functioning and its institutional activities. It is expected that the personnel of Sport and Health, already employed by the CONI on July 2, 2002, that on the date of entry into force of the decree-law in question (January 30, 2021) serves at the CONI under the insurance scheme, is transferred in the role of the personnel of the CONI, with qualification corresponding to the current one, determined according to the table of correspondence referred to in paragraph 4. A further provision stipulates that, following the procedure for the transfer of personnel to the CONI or of option for the stay in Sport and Health, the completion of the organic plant of the CONI will take place through public competitions for qualifications and examinations, in accordance with the current provisions on recruitment. Mr President, for this series of reasons, which correct previous management anomalies and sanction the self-determinative birthright and the autonomous pre-eminence of sport and its bodies of representation, organisation and functioning, on behalf of the entire Movimento 5 Star Group, I declare the vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u69	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u70	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, 17 February 2021: Bulgarian confidence without a political area perimeter to the Draghi Government. At the Senate 101 more votes than the 161 needed: 262 votes in favour. Yet, three weeks later we are already on the second issue of trust. Why? It is necessary to review the statements in this Chamber on that difficult day. All intent on reciting their own personal book of dreams, evoked, perhaps, by the fairy-tale name of the new President of the Council. Even a modest observer as may be the undersigned, however, could only see in this a pantomime. You have all been placed in an arena where the inevitable political confrontation will only lead to the removal of Parliament's prerogatives and to its failure to operate. We are voting no to the confidence that we are being asked for for the third time in three weeks. It would not have been a no to the measure, because it is a due act, but it would not have been a no if the Commission and the Senate could have been called upon to speak on this and if they could have helped to improve the measure. In the area of denied parliamentary prerogatives, at this point I can also denounce the fact that the inspection act, at the first signature of the Senator Fattori, whom I have signed, on the affair that affected McKinsey, a private consulting company to which the Mef gave a mandate of collaboration, was stopped in the Presidency, because it was a sensitive issue, to the attention of the President of the Senate. Parliament has been emptied and this is also demonstrated by the fact that the Commissions have been working hard for weeks on an old recovery plan that is no longer up-to-date. Well aware that the times, but above all the will, will ensure that Parliament will be called only to be informed by the Government on the final document... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u71	Senator Nugnes, your intervention is dissenting. I therefore invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u72	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Yes, Mr. President. Not as an international strategic management consulting company, leader in the world for market shares.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u74	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u75	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, once again the Government has decided to put the question of trust and to mortify Parliament. He did so in order to prevent any discussion of amendments that could have improved... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u76	I call on my fellow Members to take their seats, not so much for the assembly, which is not up to me to dissolve, but not to disturb Mr Crucioli, whom I invite to resume his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u77	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, as has been pointed out several times, this Government has once again decided to raise the issue of trust, mortifying Parliament. And he did so in order to prevent Parliament from discussing and improving a measure on sport, which does not improve sport, does not solve the problems of sport, but exudes the divisional vision of power and business that this Government and this majority also have towards sport. The decree increases the management posts and does nothing to prevent the President of the CONI from running for more than two terms. For us, sport is social inclusion, it is overcoming its limits, it is joy and possibility to participate. For you, it's business and power. But there is an alternative to your vision, and that is why we will vote no, even to this trust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u79	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u80	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to say something to the Government, taking advantage of this decree-law: you like to win easy. You don't want to play games - I've heard the call from De Coubertin several times - because you don't want to play the game or that someone, even weak, can win the Scudetto. In 1970 Cagliari won the Scudetto against all and against the predictions, but had the chance to play the game. By always putting the vote of confidence, you prevent Parliament from playing the game. The risk is not to have a relapse of the amendments, some of which were also positive, positive and improving, but do not give the possibility to play (other than De Coubertin). Here we are now at the violence of the rules. The balance of the parts in the game, of the roles, is prevented. The opposition is almost suffocated in a marginal role; we are forced to intervene in dissent, because we are almost prevented from organizing ourselves in a complete way. I say this to the Government itself: it is a way to respect not only the institutions, but also a minimum of ethical sense of the game. Give the chance to Cagliari to win the Scudetto, give it to Verona; give the opportunity to opposition, just like the gymnasiums to survive. There is no echo of survival towards a sports world that has been paying rents and bills for a year, because the pools must still be functional and the facilities must continue to function. These are bills, rents and subscribers' restaurants. There is a world, that of sport, that is being watched today, and there is another one that, instead, is thrown to the macero. Through this decree-law I invite the Government, please, and also the Presidency to have a little more respect for the so-called weak parties, for the oppositions. Give us the chance to play the game, enough with these trusted votes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u81	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2077, of conversion into law of Decree-Law n. 5 of January 29, 2021, in the text presented by the Government to the Senate for conversion, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Di Girolamo is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Di Girolamo. PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - at 14.58 p.m.) Senators say yes: Accoto, Agostinelli, Aimi, Alfieri, Anastasi, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Barachini, Bergesio, Berutti, Binetti, Biti, Boldrini, Bonino, Borghesi, Bossi Simone, Bressa, Briziarelli, Buccarella Calderoli, Caliendo, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Corti, Craxi, Crimi, Croatti, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, D'Arienzo, Dal Mas, Durnwalani, De Bonis, De Lucia, De Petris, De Vecchis, Dell'Olio, Di Girolamo, Di Nicola, D'Angelo, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, D'Arienzo, D'Arienco, Doonva, D'Ernwali PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2077, of conversion into law of Decree-Law n. 5 of January 29, 2021, in the text submitted by the Government to the Senate for conversion, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 250 Majority 124 Favorable 214 Contrars 32 Absent 4]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] All amendments relating to the text of Decree-Law No 5 are therefore precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u84	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I want to talk about a wounded Rome, a Rome once again victim of violence, because the violence suffered by a 22-year-old girl at Villa Giordani makes Rome cry; because the aggression, always suffered by a woman, in the former Mafai Institute in Tor Mancia makes Rome cry. Past unnoticed violence, by now simple chronicle, but we of the League do not want to make them go unnoticed. We are here to denounce the deterioration in some suburbs of Rome. We forcefully denounce him. We call on Mayor Raggi, who is increasingly absent, to be more and more interested in the election campaign than in the priorities of the citizens, among whom there is no doubt security. For this reason I appeal to the new Government, I appeal to the Minister of the Interior, but above all to Secretary Molteni, who is already preparing some important measures that we will support. A raped Rome, a forgotten Rome. Two girls who suffered carnal violence and assault respectively: four lines in some local newspapers, no one talked about it. We're here to report him. Security is a priority for the League; we will never get used to violence, especially against women, fragile people, helpless people. As I said yesterday in the square, we are there; the League puts its face on us, there is and there will always be to protect the weak. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u87	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, it has been a year since the beginning of the first national lockdown; a year in which the pandemic has caused profound social upheavals, has upset the common life and above all has caused the most important global crisis, not only health, which to date has caused the painful loss, only in our country, of more than 100,000 human lives. No one could predict that, after a year, the complex problems and the profound global crisis would still be in place in their multifaceted facets and their polyhedral repercussions on the life of the community. #Iorestoacasa was the slogan, the message that hovered in our heavens and that represented much more than just an invitation. It was a reason for sharing, to feel like part of a war, difficult and hard, to fight against an invisible enemy who does not give discounts to anyone, able to unload its enormous aggression and pathogenicity especially on the weakest and most fragile people, but at the same time capable of hitting even young people or adults strong and resistant. It is a virus that maintains its penetrating force especially for the ability to change and transform into more aggressive and contagious variants; an enemy capable of making its deleterious effects feel a little everywhere. Unfortunately, its extreme aggression and rapid spread are facilitated and fueled by our wrong behaviors, by non-compliance with individual and collective security measures. This year has passed in fighting Coronavirus in every way, trying to find the right balance between the indifferent health needs and the safeguarding of human life, on the one hand, and the very serious social and economic problems on the other, which have shattered our social fabric; all this trying to calibrate the heaviness and the incidence of the measures adopted. A year later, the general situation, unfortunately, is still serious in its dramatic and totality. Only a ray of sunshine is, little by little, illuminating this plumbee sky: vaccines, which science and research have managed to set up in a short time. A powerful weapon that, despite the difficulties linked to the supply of the doses, not yet sufficient, to the various criticalities in the organization, distribution and administration of the same, with the presence of considerable inequalities between the Region and the Region, represents however the fixed point from which to start, allowing us to inflict a fatal blow to the Covid-19 and its deleterious effects. The variants of the virus impose a sense of responsibility on all and appropriate measures to be strictly respected. The president of the Republic Sergio Mattarella has been vaccinated one year after the first lockdown, with composure, serenity and respect for the serious situation that we are experiencing: an example for all of us and also for the few undecided on the necessity and essentiality of vaccination. A message of hope for our country and of sacred respect for the more than 100,000 victims of the Covid. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u90	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the ecological transition, a path that this nation absolutely must take, which is not born exclusively through the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but from actions that this Parliament has already put in place. I am referring, for example, to the attempts we have made to reduce air pollution. And what is one of the easiest ways to reduce air pollution? Increase the number of electric vehicles. And to increase the number of electric vehicles or to break up machines with a thermal motor or to transform. That is why we have adopted two amendments, one to the August Decree-Law, the other to the Budget Law, aimed at increasing respectively the transformations of the machines with thermal engine into electric motor and the number of demolitions of old cars, favouring the purchase of electric cars by families with ISEE less than 30,000 euros. Well, in order to implement these measures there are no implementing decrees provided for by their respective laws. The request I make to the Presidency is to send the Government the exhortation to speed up the approval of these implementing decrees, because they are late and are essential to try to reduce air pollution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u91	Senator Pesco, we will immediately report to the Government, which is present, although not particularly attentive, of your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u94	LANNUTTI (Mixed). Mr President, over the past few days a contract has been signed with McKinsey for the rewriting of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), which will have to plan the use of the 209 billion, reduced to 191,5 coming from the European Union. According to the newspapers, it was Minister Franco who contacted the company. The terms of the contract are not known, it is only known that McKinsey should receive 25,000 euros to work on the most important post-war economic policy project; a ridiculous sum, to entrust the contract without any public evidence race, so much so that the news leaked thanks to Radio Popular. The Treasury issued a note specifying that it had made use of Article 36, paragraph 2 of the Procurement Code relating to contracts under threshold, failing paragraph 1 of the same article which reads: The assignment and execution of works, services and supplies below the thresholds referred to in Article 35 shall be carried out in accordance with the other principles (Article 30, as well as the principle of rotation of calls and assignments), in order to ensure the effective possibility of participation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And McKinsey can't be called small or medium-sized, let alone micro-enterprise. McKinsey is known for having been behind numerous questionable decisions dear to neoliberals, having been accused in the United States of exacerbating social inequalities, cooperating with the Trump administration in the repressive policies against immigration; sentenced to pay 472 million dollars for the role in the opioid epidemic that made thousands of deaths a year to increase the sales of the opioid Oxycontin drug, encouraging doctors to prescribe it in ever stronger doses even when it was not necessary; of having helped the Saudi regime in a media maquillage operation, to identify opinioners and dissidents who posted unwelcome opinions on Twitter to the Saudi Crown; accused of having created a troll team that persecuted the journalist killed Khashoggi. In 2015, the Renzi government used McKinsey's analysis to prepare the reform of the good school, challenged by the teachers, because based on economic thesis, which opposed the socio-pedagogic ones, which had led the reforms of the school in the country. With the oldest universities in the world, thousands of teachers and public researchers already paid by the state, who teach future generations how to draw up a plan, with a government that is proud to have put in the key technical ministries experts and the Government of the best, escapes the recourse to a foreign private company with access to strategic information, and escapes the connection between the clubs Diplomatia and Canova, frequented by illustrious members, high exponents of the State and public and private companies such as CDP, Open Fiber, Tim, Banca Intesa, Poste, Fincantieri, Atlantia, Allianz and business banks Rothschild and JPMorgan with Federico Ghizzoni and Stefano Balsamo. Thank you, Mr President, and I hope that from now on these questions, which have been shattered by the mannaia of the circular gag, will no longer be censored. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u95	Senator Lannotti, I am pleased to inform you that the publication of the above questions has been authorized today. [[Applause]] I am also pleased that these aggregate forms have led, after the birth of new Groups and members, also to the birth of the component of the interventions at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-305.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 24 March, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (15.29 a.m.).
