ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 2 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u4	I communicate that on 11 December 2021 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u7	ROJC (PD). Mr President, there is a profound sadness in learning about the disappearance of Demetrio Volcic, pervaded by his nostalgia for his ability to tell with the grace and wisdom of the great storytellers, who know how to decline the narrative with a few rarefied words. A high-ranking journalist, but also a true intellectual and a very deep acquaintance and narrator of Eastern Europe and not only. Unforgettable his work as a reporter and witness from Moscow, who knew how to enter the homes of Italians with the elegance that distinguished him and also with his unmistakable accent. He was the director of TG1 in 1993. Many remember his work in the Senate, many remember his work in the European Parliament. I feel the honor and responsibility to continue in the Senate in its wake and in the awareness that changing times implies the need to know a world that is close to us and that at the same time is changing in a sudden way. Volcic was able to underlie the dignity necessary for men, which he was able to define also through the symbols, often proscenium of the narrative of events, symbols of an unknown Europe, that of the boundless Soviet Union, that of the Balkans, that of Poland, Czechoslovakia, Germany still divided and of Mitteleuropa, of which Volcic certainly represented the synthesis. A multifaceted world, of which he told with the ability - as can be seen from his books - to make literary hints learned and determined. These are the archetypes of his belonging. He was a man of Mitteleuropa and a frontier man; he made known to the world what Manfred Halpern defines as assumed by historical significance, that is, that there is no well-defined border between the Balkan Peninsula and the rest of Europe, meaning the Balkan Peninsula as the beginning of a world and a Europe unknown to most, because of its vastness, its complexity, its specificity and its value dimension. His work as a senator of the 13th legislature, elected in 1997, after the sudden disappearance of Darko Bratina, also to represent the Slovenian minority in Italy. Its great merit is the approval of Law No. 38 of 2001 for the protection of Slovenes in Italy, which has become their and our Magna Charta, with which it has written one of the great pages of the history of minorities in Italy. Those who were his colleagues have a very vivid memory of his work as parliamentarians and he emphasizes his great ability to analyse the foreign policy of the old Continent and of the whole of Eastern Europe, but he also emphasizes its profound humanity. Demetrius Volcic knew how to grasp the sense of dignity, understood as suffering and intimate pride, which breaks through the wall of blood and pain, because conceived as the essence of existence, as the interiorization of human beings. He knew how to recount under the guise of this Europe, for centuries of coexistence, although exposed to the incursions and expansionist desires of others, recalling, albeit at times implicitly, also the great cultural charge. This is summed up in these words by Paolo Valentino on the evening Corriere: It's very deep, as only a metteleuropean border born in Ljubljana, from a Triestino father and a Gorizia mother can be. But ironic and disenchanted as only an English lord. Whoever has followed his work and had the honour of walking on the road that he has traced has the duty to bow down to the memory of a great master. Let the earth be light to him. Naj počiva u miru. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u10	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the post-war period many families left Italy in search of a better future for their children and grandchildren. In their adoptive land they were waiting for a hard life, full of sacrifices, but the spirit was strong and the noble motivation. Our compatriots in the world have not only shown that they are able to overcome the difficulties, but have integrated themselves as protagonists in their new world, maintaining - I dare say, strengthening - over time their love for Italy and their attachment to their land of origin. In short, it is this, dear senators and dear senators, the history of our life abroad: the history of the Turano family, parents and three children who left Calabria many years ago for America, where with great sacrifices and hard work they built a large company, which employs thousands of workers. Today we remember one of three children, Senator Renato Turano, who unfortunately left us. Parliamentary in the 15th and 17th legislature, elected by our compatriots in North America, Renato Turano was a mild and humble man, an honest and stylish person, very generous with friends and acquaintances and respectful of all, even of those who did not think like him. Senator Turano was a keen observer of the political phenomena of emigration; he was able to best represent the reality, hopes, needs and energies of Italians in the world and of his native land, Calabria. Among the many initiatives promoted by Senator Turano, I remember the agreement between the universities of Calabria and Illinois, which allowed many young Calabrians to study overseas. Renato Turano was for me a colleague, but above all a friend. Its history and that of its family embody and represent the symbolic image of Italian emigration overseas. The political and social commitment brought him to Parliament, where he represented the voice of so many of our fellow countrymen. Senator Turano is an example of sacrifice and dedication to work and family, to which he cared so much. The long illness that trapped his body has never stopped his brilliance of thought. I remember Renato, the man, the friend and the politician, always practical in the resolution of the various problems that were ahead, wise man, intelligent and spokesperson of the needs of our communities. He leaves us a gentleman, a kind and human person, but above all a friend. Mr President, let me say this: Renato, you left without clamor and with the usual elegance that has always distinguished you. We will remember your consistency and honesty in your words and actions. We'll miss you. Mr President, I am sure that I interpret your thoughts and that of all colleagues in the Senate in expressing my deep condolences to the family of Senator Renato Turano. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u11	Thank you, Senator Jacob, the Presidency shares your memory and that of Senator Rojc.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u14	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, on behalf of the Italian Group Viva-PSI, I would like to express our solidarity with RAI journalist Lucia Goracci and with the entire TG1 crew for the assault and seizure that took place yesterday during the interview with a MP, a no-vax Romanian senator. During the interview, the very good RAI journalist - whom we know is sent to increasingly difficult camps in war zones - tried to understand the reasons for that reality. We know that Romania is one of the European states where there is the lowest rate of vaccination and the record of deaths. Well, when the questions arrived and then the answers, there was a violent reaction that went beyond a verbal assault only: the journalist and the crew were beaten, despite the arrival of the police on the spot. Given the outcome, fortunately favorable, in the evening, we must thank the Italian embassy and our Government, with the prompt intervention of the Undersecretary Della Vedova in asking Romania immediately to condemn the act. This is not the first time that journalists, not only Italians, find themselves in difficult and complex situations. I believe that in the face of such incidents, in addition to everything that concerns a very good journalist, as a Parliament we cannot remain silent. We ask even more that there be a clarification to the full between the Italian Government and that of Romania. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u17	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, as a Parent Company in the RAI Supervisory Committee and on behalf of Forza Italia, I support Mr Sbrollini's speech. In our opinion, the aggression suffered by Lucia Goracci, the very good journalist of TG1, sent to war, among other things, and by his crew during an interview with a Romanian senator no vax - which makes the aggression and the seizure much more serious, because carried out by one of us, that is, by an institutional representative - not only, in our opinion, harms the universal principles of freedom of information, but also risks touching the friendship relations between Italy and Romania that must not be harmed at all. What has happened is unacceptable, above all, as I said, because it has seen the protagonist of a representative of the institutions of a country of the Union. As widely documented by the images, our compatriots have been literally kidnapped and mistreated by the Romanian senator and by people close to her, just because they have submitted them to questions about the serious epidemiological development of their country. It is also incredible that even the local police have held the entire crew hostage, treating its members as criminals and not as free European citizens who were doing their work in complete transparency. In renewing its absolute closeness to the journalist, Lucia Goracci, the operators and the whole TG1, the Forza Italia Group, in this Chamber and in the Supervisory Committee, calls for explanations to be obtained at national and European level on what has happened. The simple excuses, which, by the way, I do not think have yet been received - I shall go to check - from Bucharest, cannot be enough. We renew our solidarity with Lucia Goracci by telling her that she is not alone, neither she nor her crew. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u18	I would like to say that the Conference of Leaders approved the timetable by a majority until 24 December. The arguments already set out in this week's timetable remain firm. In today's sitting, the draft law on crimes against cultural heritage and incitement to self-harm will be discussed from the building until their conclusion. For these measures, the Leaders agreed to give five minutes for the final explanations of vote. Tomorrow morning and Thursday 16 will be devoted to the work of the Commissions, particularly the 5th standing Commission on the draft budget law. In the afternoon of tomorrow the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 16 and 17 December 2021 will take place. At the end of the ensuing debate, guidance tools may be presented. Monday, December 20, at 12, will be discussed the bill of delegation to the Government in the matter of disability, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, connected to the financial maneuver. The times will be divided so as to allow the final vote, with the presence of the quorum, before the opening time of the ceremony at the Quirinale for the wishes of the President of the Republic to the high offices of the State. Tuesday, December 21, starting at 9.30 a.m., will be discussed the 2020 statement and the 2021 internal budget of the Senate. The agenda for the sitting also provides, until its conclusion, for the general discussion of the draft budget law of the State. Replies and votes relating to the second section will take place at the sitting on Wednesday 22 December, beginning at 9.30 a.m. Further procedural steps will follow (examination of the first section and Note of variations, as well as final vote). On Thursday 23 December and, if necessary, Friday 24, the Decree-Law implementing the PNRR will be discussed, where approved and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u19	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 24 December: [[Tuesday, December 14, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 882 - Offences cultural heritage (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2086 - Incitement to self-harm (from the preparing seat) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 16 and 17 December 2021 (Wednesday 15, 16) Wednesday 15 " h. 16]] [[Monday 20 December h. 12 - Draft law n. 2475 - Delegation to the Government in the matter of disability (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (linked to the budget maneuver) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Doc. VIII, Nos. 7 and 8 - Report 2020 and Internal Budget 2021 of the Senate (Tuesday 21, 9.30 a.m.) - General discussion draft law n. 2448 - State budget for the financial year 2022 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2022-2024 Tuesday 21 " h. 9.30]] [[Wednesday, December 22, h. 9,30 - Following bill n. 2448 - State budget for the financial year 2022 and multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2022-2024 (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Draft law n.... - Decree-Law n. 152, Implementation National plan recovery and resilience (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on January 5, 2022) Thursday 23 " h. 9,30 Friday 24 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law No 2475 (Delegation to the Government in the matter of disability), No 2448 (State Budget for the financial year 2022 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2022-2024), and No... (Decree-Law No 152, Implementation National Recovery and Resilience Plan) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The calendar can be integrated with the President's Communications, pursuant to article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, on the draft law n. 2469 (annual law for the market and competition 2021). Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 16 and 17 December 2021 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 152, Implementation National Recovery and Resilience Plan) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 33'+5' PD 29' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u22	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I rise to explain the opposition of the Brothers of Italy Group to the timetable proposed by the majority groups. The majority has proposed to Parliament and the parliamentary groups a timetable for the adoption of the PNRR and the budget law, which is not forced, but very forced, Mr President. We are asked in almost seven days to approve two fundamental documents for the political, social and economic life of this country. Once again, this is done by trampling the right-duty of parliamentarians to an in-depth examination not only of the text of the Government, but also of all the amendments tabled. The Brothers of Italy Group, even before the budget session began, has asked several times in the Conference of the Leaders and on other occasions the possibility of a confrontation not obstructive, but true with the Government, as is done between the different parliamentary groups that represent different needs, but respect the roles assigned to them by politics. We have tabled not thousands of amendments, as the majority groups have done, but a few hundred. After that, the government asked us to point out a few dozen amendments to be discussed together. We have done so and we have asked the government for technical reports, as well as to check whether the coverage we had identified was also good for the Commission, but we have not received any response. This is not the correct way in which the Government can approach the only opposition force. If the understanding of the Government, the Ministers and the rapporteur is to arrive on Sunday evening or night or on Monday morning to tell us the situation is this: take it or leave it, we will now announce that we will be heard in the Commission. All our senators are registered to intervene in the Commission and all our senators will intervene in this House. We do not give up the role that has been assigned to us, given our duty to do parliamentarians, debating and discussing what we think is right for our country. Once again, we ask the Government if it intends to discuss with us (not to approve everything we say, but - I repeat - to discuss) certain qualifying elements of our proposals, which are also filed and illustrated by our President Giorgia Meloni. It will be serious if this confrontation does not take place on the sole and absolute responsibility of the Government, which is absent or in any case in other matters occupied (also this is the demonstration of the interest it addresses to the demands of the opposition). [[Comments.]] Undersecretary Sisto, I was saying that the government has an unacceptable attitude towards us. I record once again that our attempt to have a responsible attitude towards the Government is not being heard. On the contrary, gestures of responsibility are responded by gestures of institutional and political ill-education. This is what we record. Once again, we do not vote on a timetable which requires Parliament to approve hundreds of articles and amending proposals that are trusted with a closed box. We ask the government to take responsibility for a fair confrontation with the opposition. Until this happens, we will use all the instruments that the Rules of Procedure provide to make our voice heard, which is the only voice of freedom and opposition that remains in this Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u23	Senator Ciriani, I record his opposition and motivations, but if he wants a vote, he must make a proposal to be submitted to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u24	Mr President, first of all, I propose that we postpone the debate on the draft delegation law on disability scheduled for Monday, allowing a proper and more detailed examination in the Commission of the text of the Government and all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u25	Senator Ciriani, in summary, you propose that on Monday we do not hold the session at 12, with the forecast of the discussion of the bill of delegation on disability. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senator Ciriani, to postpone the discussion of the bill of delegation in the matter of disability. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u26	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 882, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u27	Mr President, the measure we are debating today has been adopted in the second Commission in the drafting, intervenes on the text approved by the House at first reading and proposes to reform the criminal provisions for the protection of cultural heritage, which today are mainly contained in the code of cultural goods, including them in the penal code. The aim of the bill is to carry out a thorough reform of the subject matter, redefining the structure of the discipline with a view to a tightening of the penalty treatment, in order to prevent and repress crimes against cultural goods. In particular, Article 1 amends the penal code by including among the crimes Title VIII- bis, under the heading "Dei delitti contro il patrimonio culturale" ("Dei delitti anti il patrimonio culturale"), composed of nineteen new articles. Mr President, before handing over the written text of my report, I would like to refer to three issues which have been the subject of the Commission's work and the changes that the Commission has made to the House's bill. First of all, in the passage to the Commission it was added among the planned pipelines, punished in the first article of this measure, those of those who take possession of cultural goods belonging to the State as found in the subsoil or in the seabed. These behaviors are punished with imprisonment from three to six years, with an increase of sentence between four and ten years for those who commit the crime being in possession of a research concession. Secondly, the Commission has added in this article, in relation to matters relating to the self-recycling of cultural goods, that the conduct in which the goods are intended for personal use is not punishable in some cases. Finally, Article 518-duodecies of the penal code punishes the destruction, dispersion, deterioration, defacement, splicing and illicit use of cultural or landscape goods. The first subparagraph provides for imprisonment, which the Commission has increased from two to five years, with a fine of up to 15,000 euros for anyone who destroys, disperses deteriorates or renders unusable or unusable cultural or landscape goods. I would add that the Commission has introduced a new article, 518-undecies, which in any case provides for the confiscation of the things that have been the subject of the crime, or have been destined to commit the crime, profit or price in case of conviction or plea for one of the crimes provided for in the new title. Having said that, this is an important measure for which I refer to this House and, since I believe that the report better tells the full measure, I ask for permission to attach the written text to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u28	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The government representative does not intend to intervene. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u31	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, today is an important day, because with this bill we take a fundamental step forward for our country, in particular for the protection of our precious cultural and artistic heritage. Italian riches are a source of pride and the whole world envies us, despite not always, unfortunately, we have been able to safeguard how we should have this great extraordinary heritage that we have. However, with this measure we are taking the most necessary and indispensable step in this direction, as was well explained by the rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli. The draft law that we are about to vote on, as we know, has already been dismissed from the other branch of Parliament and has been approved, with amendments, by the Senate Justice Commission. As already pointed out, the aim is to reform the criminal provisions to protect the cultural heritage that are found today mainly in the code of cultural goods, including them in the penal code. The aim is therefore to carry out a profound reform of the subject, redefining the set-up of the discipline with a view to a tendency to tighten the penalty treatment. The changes, additions and innovations are certainly included within the penal code, in Title VIII- bis, dedicated precisely to crimes against cultural heritage, making the matter more organic, but also introducing a new case of crime, both by increasing the existing penalties, and by introducing aggravating when the subject of common crimes are cultural assets. The location of this new title also seems emblematic to me; the new provisions come immediately after Title VIII, dedicated to crimes against the public economy, industry and trade, therefore in line of continuity, in the broadest perspective of a systematic placement within the code. In our opinion, the draft law now before us is a fundamental part of the policy for the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage. I say this both as a member of the 7th Commission, but above all as a representative of the Group of which I am honoured to be a member. For us, the protection and enhancement of artistic and cultural heritage, which is one of the main riches of our country, cannot be put in the background, but must be treated as a priority. If, therefore, the approach that is being pursued - and I hope it will continue today in this House, finally approving this measure - is to consider these issues as a priority, it means that we are called upon to make a greater effort. It is not enough to respect and protect the history and identity of our country in a conservative perspective, but we must strive to ensure that what represents a unicum in the world panorama is enhanced in the best way possible, transforming it into an extraordinary opportunity for development and growth. I believe that this measure seeks to go in this direction, by offering our artistic and cultural heritage a comprehensive regulatory framework, which is able to prepare organic measures for both prevention and law enforcement, in the face of a constant growth of crimes affecting artistic and cultural heritage, moreover, in a national and international context that shows an increase in the presence of criminal and mafia organisations in this field and in some cases also terrorist organisations. The work of the Commissions, carried out first in the House then in this branch of Parliament, introduced some adjustments in a substantially intact framework of the measure. Therefore, a strengthening of more incisive and certainly more effective measures against theft, misappropriation, concealment, money laundering and illegal possession of cultural goods comes out. On the whole picture there is certainly an innovative scope throughout the draft law system, so I think it is the best formula today to respond to a growing crime. It is therefore essential today to approve it, especially after the two cornerstones we have at supranational and national level, and I refer to the Nicosia Convention. I shall begin by concluding, Mr President, because time has already expired, saying that it is a very important piece, that I hope it can be voted unanimously and therefore in a cross-cutting way, defending values, cultural heritage and works of art as the identity of our country. That is why I voted in favour of the Italian Group Viva-PSI. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u34	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote strongly in favour of this draft law, because, as we all know, Italy is the country that suffers most in the world the negative consequences of illicit trafficking and the trafficking of cultural, historical and artistic goods. This bill inserts in the penal code a special title, Title VIII-a, with as many as 19 articles, from Article 518 et seq., from the title: "Devils against cultural heritage." It is therefore an organic arrangement of the measures taken against theft, appropriation, trafficking, recycling, export, import of artistic goods, largely implementing the Nicosia Convention which, as we know, we approved here in the Senate a few weeks ago, but still awaits ratification by the House. I would like to point out, in particular to the Government, that five states need to be ratified for the entry into force of the Convention, and at present only four have done so. So if Italy urgently ratified the Convention, it would automatically enter into force. It would be very important because it provides for international agreements, measures and control procedures for imports and exports, a particular focus on Internet operations, the sharing and interconnection of national databases and a whole series of measures which, together with those of a repressive nature that will enter into force under this law, would certainly allow this serious phenomenon to be tackled. It, as my previous colleague mentioned, is also interested in organised crime and what are called archeomaphies, which very often use illicit trafficking in cultural goods also in order to recycle their illicit proceeds. In this respect, a very important measure contained in the draft law in Article 3, which allows undercover activity also for the purposes of combating illicit trafficking in cultural goods, should be highlighted. A very appropriate measure because the more clearly the criminal capacity of organised crime is refined, the more appropriate instruments need to be put in place to combat it. So we, ladies and gentlemen, who are a party of patriots, have at heart the enormous cultural heritage that Italy has. A heritage that, certainly if valued and protected, could allow an important impulse also to recovery and economic development, to the tourist attraction from the whole world because our historical, artistic and architectural beauties are envied and are admired by the whole world. Then we, who are a party of patriots and who care about the national interest, can only share these measures and give them our strong support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u37	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, at last we approve a long-awaited measure, born on the initiative of the Minister of Culture Franceschini and then Minister of Justice Orlando. Let's remember some data: Italy has the greatest cultural heritage worldwide with over 4,000 museums, 6,000 archaeological areas, 85,000 churches subject to protection and 40,000 historical residences recorded; it has the international record for the number of sites declared by UNESCO World Heritage Site and a geographical position that since ancient times has enriched our country of history and art. In short, Italy is the cradle of an invaluable value in cultural terms. Every 100 square kilometers in Italy there are on average more than 30 listed assets, 18 percent of the Italian territory, more than 55,000 square kilometers of the territory are subject to protection activities by the State. I want to underline and add that on the front of the protection of cultural heritage, our country is at the forefront because the Carabinieri's Command for the protection of cultural heritage, founded in 1969, was the first police body to deal specifically with prevention and repression activities to protect Italian cultural heritage. The Carabinieri have distinguished themselves for their operations to protect art also in the rest of the world, working with the UN and UNESCO even in the Middle East to defend enormous archaeological treasures from ISIS. As has already been mentioned, the threat to cultural heritage comes not only from international criminal organisations, but also from terrorist organisations. We therefore need an approach that is obviously international and from this point of view I join those who have already stressed the need to complete the process of ratification of the Nicosia Convention. I would add that the Italian cultural heritage, not only for the numbers I have evoked, but for the richness and value it has, is the identity figure of our country. It is therefore a question of protecting, protecting and recognizing something that represents, precisely, the identity figure of our country, of our culture, of our history, but of course also of our future, because we know that we are talking about growth, economy, tourism, meeting places. Since we had to suffer the tragedy of the pandemic, with everything that it brought, we look at many values and many situations with a different eye. Surely this speech also applies to the cultural heritage, understood as places, as spaces, as landscape heritage. On the one hand, we have learned the value of all this, we have missed it and we have been deprived of it; on the other hand, we cannot but think of all the operators of this vast field, who have certainly paid a very high price, just as we have all paid it as a community, because the culture and heritage that underlies it are obviously an extraordinary opportunity to meet again and for sociality. In conclusion, Mr President, these are protective measures which not only exacerbate penalties, but also identify suitable ways of affecting phenomena which are now modern, organized and, as I said, transnational. Therefore, protecting Italian cultural heritage must be - as is the case with our vote today - a priority without political colors or party flags. This proposal, which finally - I want to emphasize - comes to the conclusion of its iter after a rather winding path started in 2018, sees us all in the front line in defense of a unique wealth, which makes our country different from all the others - and we are proud of it - and for this very reason deserving of appropriate legal norms and instruments and sanctions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u40	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the measure we have been examining for a long time is absolutely necessary and fundamental for our country, since in the world we are known precisely for the greatness and beauty of our artistic, cultural and archaeological heritage. We have absolute records from this point of view for works of art, for a set of cultural assets that, among other things, integrate absolutely with our landscape. It is no coincidence, in fact, that in Article 9 of the Constitution, in which we have recently incorporated environmental protection, cultural and landscape goods are one and the same because our country is history and nature together. This heritage has suffered many aggressions over the years, which means that it was our absolute duty, as legislators, to put in place a series of provisions that, in this particular case, concern new measures on crimes against cultural heritage, which add to environmental crimes: the rapporteur will certainly remember the work we have done in the last legislature to include them finally in our penal code. This is a further step forward knowing that, moreover, we have a dedicated core of the Carabinieri that over the years has become hyperspecialized. He has had a very strong experience to suppress crimes against our cultural heritage; he has also worked abroad in this sense, as we know perfectly well. Despite this, the record is still impressive. The law contains the systematization and reform of the crimes that he had long expected and that will ensure that we will be able to prosecute them in a much more precise and accurate way. The data is still alarming. We remember, in fact, that only in 2017 there were 719 thefts of works of art (with a growth of 26 percent) and 1,136 complaints. There are still few arrests, while 850 kidnappings have been made. The other issue that the bill addresses is that they constitute the new and ancient business of organized crime. We must never forget that. It is clear to everyone that, in addition to the repression on which the bill very well intervenes, in order to protect our cultural heritage, we must also put in place an even more effective system of protection and protection. In the bill it could enter - the iter had begun also in the last legislature - the other piece that is missing. I am referring, for example, to the crimes against the flora and fauna of our country. I repeat again that Italy is history and nature. This is the strongest identity with cultural assets and landscapes. I am thinking above all also of the repression of illegal cement because in some regions we still have very strong phenomena of abuse that endanger the landscape and cultural heritage. This bill is fine and we will of course be voting in favour of it. It is part of the necessary intervention because I believe that we still have to do much to protect the world's greatest artistic and cultural heritage. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u43	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, I believe that nations, as well as individuals, have a character. I believe that the character of the nations depends essentially on their identities and historical experiences that they live, the biography for people. Every nation has its own biography. National identity traditionally consists of religion, ethnicity and culture. Of these three elements, in my opinion, the most central, the most decisive and what really makes the difference is culture. I don't mean it by habit, but because culture, at the end of the day, sums up and is the daughter of other elements (ethnicity and religion) and historical vicissitudes more than anything else. Strengthening a country's affection for its cultural heritage means strengthening its national identity. This is true for any State, but in a particular way for a country like Italy, not so much and not only for the primacy of the sites that UNESCO considers as a patrimony of humanity, but because from the Latin codes to the Renaissance more than any other nation we have forged, or in any case helped to forge European culture and identity and, therefore, Western culture and identity. It is no coincidence that from the so-called Bottai laws of 1939, to the extraordinary activity of the then minister Benedetto Croce in the valorization of the landscape, up to our Republican Constitution, the institutions, whether monarchic or republican there was no difference, have treated with particular attention and care our cultural assets and our culture in the broad sense. That this tension was and is transversal is demonstrated by the acts of the constituent Assembly. I invite colleagues who did not read or reread the dialogues between a great Communist Latinist, Concetto Marchesi, and a young Christian Democrat jurist named Aldo Moro. They were talking about this, that is, what later became Article 9 of the Constitution, which is a unicum in Western constitutional history, because we have put in constitution the protection of our heritage. Article 9 says: "The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. We put it in the Constitution and put it among the fundamental principles of our Constitution. I like to recall here a speech, a great speech that a President of the Republic made, the President of the Italian Republic who more than anyone else has been concerned to revitalize the sense of national identity and to relegitimize a word until that moment proscribed, which was and is the word "Patria". That president was Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. In 2003, giving gold medals to the meritorites of culture and art, Ciampi said (I'm going to read): It is in our artistic heritage, in our language, in the creative capacity of Italians that lies the heart of our identity, of that nation that was born well before the State and represents its highest legitimacy. Italy, which is within each of us, is expressed in the humanistic culture, by figurative art, by music, by architecture, by poetry, by the literature of a single people. The national identity of Italians is based on the awareness of being guardians of a unitary cultural heritage that has no equals in the world. And that was the end of Carlo Azeglio Ciampi's speech: The promotion of his knowledge and the protection of the artistic heritage are therefore not an activity among others for the Republic, but one of his most own missions, public and inalienable by constitutional dictation and by the will of a thousand-year-old identity. These are the reasons why a bill that has two merits, the first formal and functional, but important, to clarify what it is and what it consists of the Italian cultural heritage and the other to foresee a new body of crimes to punish with due harshness those attentive to this heritage, can only have the favorable vote of Forza Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u46	URRARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the regulatory reform technique is part of a current legal framework for the protection of cultural heritage, which is ensured by the provisions of Legislative Decree No 42 of 2004 and those of the penal code (recipe, recycling, self-laundering, theft, criminal association). It has appeared commendable the intention to provide a greater defense to the violations that concern the assets of the cultural heritage, also because in the legislative decree n. 42 of 2004 the protection is prepared with some violations and some crimes, with penalties that appeared relatively inadequate regarding the gravity of the illegals hypothesized. Hence the whole compendium of norms, all attributable to the sphere of crimes and penalties, which, although graduated according to gravity, sometimes appear to be objectively high, taking into account the fact that specific aggravating factors may be added to the general aggravating factors. From the point of view of the regulatory technique it must be pointed out that new cases of crime based on the object of the crime have been introduced, thereby making it rise to a specific crime not the behaviour itself, but the behavior linked to an object, even if it has appeared perhaps particularly excessive the parcelling of the sanctioned behavior, with some operating and interpretative difficulties to which it has been fixed anyway. There are many positive aspects: the provision of liability for companies, the provision of seizure by equivalent, the provision of the extended confiscation referred to in Article 240- bis of the Criminal Code; instruments which have proved good in combating crime in other areas. The choice of district planning (the option of assigning the competence in the district for the investigation of cultural heritage assets) had a positive connotation, that of centralizing the investigations in a few judicial offices, allowing the best investigative coordination and the management of the investigations, but clearly presupposes a prior monitoring of the effective effectiveness of this choice, where this experience, carried out in other areas, also affected by the same provisions (think of Articles 640 and 615-b of the penal code), has not always brought the results imagined. Moreover, since the jurisdiction of the district is not accompanied by the provision of the competence of the anti-mafia district direction, the centralization of the investigations does not also correspond to the prediction of a wider possibility of investigation, which could be offered where such offences were included among those of the competence of the DDA. Think of the extension of the possible use of interceptions and the duration of the investigations, provided that adequate coordination is carried out with the provisions relating to the request for the extension of the investigations. Meanwhile it is commendable the intention to reform the criminal provisions to protect the cultural heritage, which are found today mainly in the code of cultural goods. Firstly, and very clearly, Article 240- bis of the Criminal Code is addressed, by extending it, through the inclusion of crimes for the collection of cultural goods and the use of cultural goods from crime, for the recycling of cultural goods, for the self-laundering of cultural goods and for activities organized for the illicit trafficking of cultural goods. In particular, Article 518- bis of the Criminal Code punishes the theft of cultural goods, with imprisonment from two to six years. Article 518-b punishes the misappropriation of cultural goods, the collection of cultural goods, the use of cultural goods from crime, the recycling of such goods and self-recycling. A series of forecasts then, analytically, with the imprisonment from one to four years, punish the forgery in private writing relating to cultural goods. In short, a series of useful provisions, important, that also the legal and legal framework led to consider necessary. For this reason, I declare the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u49	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, the measure before this House stems from the desire to protect the Italian cultural heritage, which is the richest capital available to the country, but which often ends up being taken away from the community. Even the medical emergency didn't stop the beauty thieves. In 2020, in fact, the Carabinieri of the Command for the protection of the cultural heritage recovered over half a million pieces of art. It is the overall data of the dossier "Operational activities 2020" of the specialized unit of the weapon, which in half a century of life has returned to the public or to the legitimate owners more than 3 million art objects and archaeological materials. Last year alone, he made 1,200 arrests and 36,000 complaints. Despite these dramatic statistics, Italy was the first country in the world to have rules on the protection of cultural goods, a leading role reaffirmed by the ratification of the Nicosia Convention in May 2017. The 2017 Global Financial Integrity report estimates the illicit trade in works of art between six and eight billion dollars, representing 20 percent of all crimes against cultural heritage. According to a study by the American association Save Antiquities, 80 percent of the goods sold in the art markets have uncertain, if not illegal origins, and according to Interpol, the volume of business generated by the trade in cultural goods would be lower only than the trade in weapons and drugs. These figures show how cultural heritage represents an immense economic resource for criminal organisations. Italy is the country most affected by this phenomenon and for this reason it has always legislated to protect its cultural heritage, placing itself as the leading state in the prevention of illegals. As stated above, our Constitution, in Article 9, states that the Republic protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. This fundamental principle allowed the legislator to include tools for preventing and suppressing harmful behaviour of cultural heritage of a criminal nature. The need to update the direct protection of cultural objects, including it in the penal code with a more determined sanctioning forecast, is therefore clear. The measure under discussion today goes in this direction, directly modifying the penal code with the new heading Title VIII- bis "Dei delitti anti il patrimonio culturale" (Dei delitti anti il patrimonio culturale), raising the existing penalties and introducing even aggravating if common crimes are committed against cultural goods. The new law therefore aims to give coherence to the sanctioning system and overcome the division between the penal code and the code of cultural goods; it introduces new species of crime and aggravating when an object of common crimes is the cultural heritage. In addition, the penalties for crimes of damage, splicing and illicit use of cultural or landscape goods are increased. The criminal provisions also apply to events committed abroad against national assets. Among the novelties, the reform of the penal code affects not only natural persons, but also legal ones, i.e. bodies and companies operating in the field of art. Another important novelty is the possible use of undercover agents and the competence of the district attorney for the investigation of the crime of activities organized for the illicit trafficking of art objects. Colleagues, essential resources such as our cultural and landscape heritage, the agro-food sector and local handicrafts need to be protected and safeguarded by criminal organizations that exploit the image of Italy in the world. Thanks to the approval of this bill, our country will be able to give new impetus to the repression of crimes against its rich cultural heritage that has always been a pride in the world and the main tourist attraction that generates economic repercussions to be preserved with the utmost commitment. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u50	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u51	The next item is the debate on the drawing up of draft law No 2086. The rapporteur, Senator Pepe, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u52	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need to give a clear signal that it is going to stem the spread of games, challenges or other forms of direct or indirect incitement of minors to violent conduct, self-injury or worse to suicide. The legislation in force covers the incitement to suicide and the incitement to delinquere, but these conducts do not cover the case of the incitement to self-harm and in any case leave the managers of the social platforms free of penalty that, while having technical means able to face the spread of such threats - but in fact negligently omitting the due controls - allow the circulation of the inciting contents. It is therefore necessary to guarantee the right punishment to those who dowry or innocuously endanger the lives or health of our young and very young people. The draft law under consideration is composed of five articles: the first introduces article 414 -ter of the penal code, providing, as an autonomous case of crime which relates to specialty in relation to the hypothesis of article 414 that, unless the fact constitutes more serious crime, anyone carrying out the incitement or direct or widespread apology through computer or computer tools or any other means of communication regarding the commission of acts of violence or self-harm by minors is punished with imprisonment from one to five years. If violence or self-harm were to materialize, the penalty for imprisonment increased from five to twelve years. In the following paragraph, the norm provides for the punishableness also for those who, although not the author of the incitement or apology, intentionally spread or facilitate the spread of these acts. And the penalty is also in this case from one to five years. Article 2, on the other hand, provides for an amendment of Article 580 of the penal code, that is, the article which provides for the possibility of incitement to suicide; in the event that the incitement to suicide is committed by computer or telematic means, the penalty has increased from one third to half. Article 3 provides for the minor who has been offended by certain of the conducts referred to in the third paragraph of Article 414-b or 580 of the Penal Code, and for the parent, guardian or curator of the same minor, the possibility of forwarding to the controller or manager of the digital platform an instance for the darkening, removal and blocking of images of videos or audio recordings or for the adoption of appropriate technical measures to prevent the direct identification of the offense, but without prejudice to data retention requirements for evidence purposes only. The second paragraph of Article 3 also provides that, if within twenty-four hours following the receipt of the application referred to in paragraph 1, the controller or the operator of the digital platform has not communicated that he has assumed the task of providing the darkening, removal or blocking required and within forty-eight hours thereafter has not provided it, or in any case in the case in which the owner of the platform or the operator of the platform and the controller of the processing is not recognizable, the minor who has completed fourteen years, the parents, the guardian and the curator can address to the Data Protection Officer a report or a complaint in order to be able to take all the sanctioning measures provided for by the legislation of the sector. Article 4 provides that these conducts may be punishable even if they are committed abroad. Article 5 shall govern entry into force. Coming to a few very brief final considerations, Mr President, it is useless to point out the importance of this bill awaited by so many, indeed by all Italian families, which comes out strengthened by the work carried out by the 2nd Commission, because it is unanimously dismissed by all the political forces that make up its integrity. That is why I am obliged to thank all the members of the Commission - because they have been heard and not just to carry out a form of fulfillment. On the one hand, it is right to address a heartfelt thanks to those senators who wanted and deposited this provision and, therefore, to the centre-right component of this Assembly, particularly to the large patrol of the League, of Forza Italia, of Brothers of Italy and of the UDC. On the other hand, with the same strength, I would like to thank all those who represent the center-left forces, the Movimento 5 Stars, who have collaborated with all of us in a responsible and common sense, helping to improve the original text compared to the one then launched by the Commission itself. The hope is that this measure can become as soon as possible the law of the State and in this case, after having put it in the availability of families, to protect our children and our little girls, we can say that we have done a good service to our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u53	The government representative does not intend to intervene. As noted, I recall that there is a refuse in Article 1: a space between the words "reclusion" and "from" must be inserted. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u56	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure that we are about to vote on today is necessary in the light of an increasingly dramatic picture that sees young people causing more or less serious injuries, even in some cases reaching suicide, most of the time to the outcome of evil challenges taking place on the Net. Often the difficulties - as has been confirmed also by a recent judgment of the Milan court last June - is the legal qualification that can be given to these inciting behaviors. Think of the so-called blue whale, that is, that series of requests, addressed by an administrator to a participant in a discussion on the net, aimed most of the times at certain tests that involve acts of self-harm - such as, for example, cutting off the veins - or extremely dangerous - like climbing a cornice - and then exposing the movies on the Net. The most sociologically relevant aspect of the phenomenon, which assumes the characteristics of a kind of cyberbullying (obviously extreme), is that it would leverage the low self-esteem, fragility and emotional instability of the subjects involved. This also helps to explain the secondary phenomenon constituted by the psychosis of blue whale, which has spread very much in the last period between teenagers and their families, precisely because of the fear that one has of the net lure towards them. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is very widespread and extremely dangerous, but it does not find a precise legal qualification in our system. In fact, although the tasks assigned to the children who lend themselves to play this game are often aimed at the suicide of the participant, if the criminal intent (i.e. the death of the player) is not realized, the crime of incitement to suicide cannot be considered configured. The current legislation provides for a series of conducts that are mentioned in the incitement to criminality and suicide, but none of the conducts currently provided for by our penal system provides for an incitement to the fulfilment of self-injury. That is why, precisely to put an end to this situation, the measure under consideration has been taken, which - in my opinion - is extremely important. It is not by chance that this House is voting on it virtually unanimously, with only a few abstentions. Among other things, the new crime figure is expected as a residual hypothesis, because it is said to be "if it is no longer a serious crime." The relevant choice was also to provide for obligations for data controllers and platform operators. To the dangerous messages conveyed through many social platforms must be given a brake, and this is also the intention of the legislation under consideration: to this end has been inserted the express prediction that, if one of the conducts provided for in the new article 414-b of the penal code has been put in place, the parent, the guardian or the curator can forward to the controller or the operator of the platform a special request for the darkening or removal of the images, except the preservation for the probative purposes for a period of nine months. In this sense, I feel it is my duty to express some concerns here, because, in my opinion, a period of nine months is not enough to guarantee safety in terms of evidence. I also mentioned in the Commission the forty-eight-hour deadline for the material to be removed from the digital platform. 18.03 p.m. (Follow CUCCA). And this term is evidently too broad, considered - for example - that platforms such as Tik Tok or Instagram predict that certain images in infinitesimal time (much less than a second) will be deleted automatically. Leaving this material on the Net forty-eight hours can be really dangerous for education, care and above all the protection of children involved in such events. For the time being, a significant step forward has certainly been taken. Let us hope that there will not be episodes such as those that we are forced to see every day and that the aforementioned interval of time can be reconsidered at a later time with an intervention that you abbreviated further. It is clear, however, that what we are doing is not enough. There is a real need for better prevention, better child care, for measures to assist children who, especially after the pandemic period, have suffered depressive phenomena that have led them to attend social networks and these kinds of challenges. We should intervene with another important legislative intervention, so as to cure, much more than we have done to date, the physical and mental health of our children and children. For the reasons set out above, the Italian Group Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano will vote strongly in favour of this measure, but hoping that it is only the first step, because really there is a need to do so much more on this matter and I believe that it is our duty to put in place all the necessary actions to prevent these serious phenomena. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u59	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, Brothers of Italy have signed the own-initiative bill of Senator Pillon, whom I thank for the initiative and sharing, and he has supported it and also strengthened it in the Justice Commission with the contribution of Mr Balboni. We strongly support this measure today, because the bill n. 2086, containing amendments to the penal code in the matter of incitement to violence, self-harm and suicide, fills a legislative vacuum and aims to protect minors, increasingly exposed to the risks posed by dangerous challenges and games who have sometimes turned out to be even mortal. Unfortunately there have been cases of chronicle to remind us, and it is not about numbers or press news, but about children who have remained unwitting and involuntary victims of these challenges brought to the extreme and ultimate act of suicide: tragedies of lethal games such as chewing detergent capsules, or the challenge of the splitter, or even the tests of apnea until suffocation: episodes that have brought out a world submerged of cursed challenges and also a regulatory vacuum that we have the duty to fill. The current legislation, in fact, contemplates the incitement to suicide, as well as the incitement to criminals, but such conducts do not include the ever more widespread case, unfortunately, of the incitement to self-harm, and this represents the normative vulnus to be corrected. It is necessary to intervene with respect to a sort of far west that runs on the web, responsible for the managers of social platforms, causing them to use all the technical means necessary to face such risks and to cut back in the bud the spread of emulatory attitudes and escalation. The amendments proposed by the bill to the articles of the penal code, in particular 414 and 580, aim to introduce penalties and sanctions for those who, with malice or guilt, expose the health of children's lives to risk. It is also expected to increase the penalty for incitement to suicide through computer and computer tools, as well as the punishment of conduct committed abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that the adoption of this bill is not the panacea but a drop in the sea, indeed in the pond without rules represented by social media, and enormous remains the critical issues and unresolved issues. However, we are also aware that this legislative instrument finally imposes important stakes, marks a perimeter of respect for the rules of supervision, control and responsibility that calls into question the users and parents of minors, but above all - attention, colleagues - it calls into question the digital companies, those colossal multinational companies that have billed by dizziness and do not pay taxes based on turnover. [[Applause]] They are giant companies on the web, but they are dwarfs for contributions to the Italian tax. It is for this reason that Brothers of Italy has already proposed in the past that the colossus of the web pay taxes based on the number of accesses to their platforms and it is ridiculous that the rate of 3 percent of the web tax that instead favors them. I'm going back to the subject and I'm going to finish by asking you for an extra minute, President. The explicit call is addressed to the platform operators, to the web giants, because this is the legal vulnus: there are no penalties for failure to control and for those who do not assume the responsibility to face the circulation of inciting or threatening content. Brothers of Italy vote strongly in favour of the measure for its contents and also for the message that launches to all those lobbies that consider privacy more important than the fight against ogres in the field of child pornography. [[Applause]] The vote of Brothers of Italy will therefore be favorable, because the right of minors to their own psychophysical integrity represents an absolute value that deserves to be protected by every means, because from the death of a child no one can feel acquitted. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to attach the remainder of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u60	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u63	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this draft law, which we have helped to define and improve in the Commission. It is a measure that covers a legislative vacuum at a time when episodes of self-harm, the risks of self-harm among children caused by phenomena generated by imitation, challenges, often operated using the Network and social media. It is right to punish those who instigate acts of violence or self-harm. We have to start with this. And, on the other hand, it is right - as the present bill does - to empower the managers of IT platforms, providing for the need to put in place all possible technological measures to obscure and remove dangerous content, but above all by providing for the immediate removal of content reported by the same children, parents or authorities. Mr President, there is a particularly dangerous phenomenon in which the weakest, the smallest, often pay the price. It is a phenomenon that is produced by violating the minimum rules of behavior. On the other hand, we are intervening, not by violating freedoms, but by balancing them, by putting in place instruments of repression, but above all by preventing them. With today's vote - I repeat - we fill a void, we fill a gap and we look at the interests of children. We intervene to stem a phenomenon that, although new, has already produced too much damage and mourning, knowing that alongside our legislative action we need full awareness in those who use and manage the platforms and social networks of their delicacy and danger, especially for minors. If used improperly and irresponsiblely they can be dangerous tools and not the extraordinary opportunity for communication that they often are. The draft law in question helps to mark this distinction and the PD will vote for it firmly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u66	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the draft law by Liberi and Equal, which amends the penal code on incitement to violence, self-harm, suicide and provides for a new formulation for a crime already present in the penal code and for the identification of timelines defined for the removal and blocking of images, videos, online recordings, plus a new crime, that of self-harm. We are in favour of this because we believe that to some extent the updating of these rules may be of some use, but at the same time we cannot avoid, at least from time to time, an obligation of truth in this House. In cases where these rules will be applied and useful, in fact, we will have the certainty that we have arrived late and I also think with the wrong instrument. It will not be the penal code - I believe - that improves the lives of girls and boys between the ages of fourteen and eighteen, to which the rules under consideration are dedicated. It will not be with the criminalization of the Internet, of social networks - as happened yesterday with comics, when we were younger - of Japanese video games or cartoons that we will solve the great issue of the psychophysical health of young people, especially after the long months of isolation due to the social consequences of the pandemic. I am well aware that standards such as those we are examining have the great value of being at no cost. But if we really want to take care of the psychophysical well-being of the new generations, we will have to engage deeply in a network of care and care that goes from school services to health care; on a widespread spread of sports, recreational and associative centers of every form and nature. We will have to strive for greater listening and involvement of families and educational agencies, in order to ensure greater attention and care for our children. If I repeat my vote in favour, I say to myself, but also to all of you, that much remains to be done and that it is our primary duty to do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u69	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of Mr Forza Italia's draft law before us, thanking on behalf of my Group its presenters, including its own representatives. This is in fact a problem that I believe each of us has dealt with and solved in solitude, being faced with the news of acts of self-harm by minors; a situation that is probably often resolved by saying that there are no longer the values that young people once had in the family and in society, there is no longer that human warmth that came from collective participation. I believe that the rule that will be adopted today has its meaning: the Senate of the Republic and I hope Parliament in its entirety will soon condemn the acts of self-injury, because they are against the rules established by our Constitution. The value of the person, stated in Article 2, does not only mean the defence of the person who has a reaction to aggression by third parties. Even more serious is the mentality that is introduced by certain attitudes and organizations that move on social media to convince young people to do things that, as soon as we listen to how they are developed, seem incredible to us. This is the reason for the first article of the provision, aimed at punishing the incitement to violence and self-determination in harm to minors. We do not realize many times that society slips away when we accept the idea that the minor can be induced to carry out acts of self-harm, such as those we have seen realized in some countries beyond the Ocean, in America, such as the launch from a balcony or from the top floor to verify the possibility of being saved. This legislation was not enough only from the point of view of criminal repression. Keep in mind that Article 4 introduces the principle that for any Italian or foreign national who in the land of countries other than our country commits crimes of incitement or others, referred to in Article 5, the possibility of jurisdiction of our country on facts of extreme gravity is provided. Last but not least, we have not only looked at criminal liability or at giving an indication of seriousness to our young people, but also at a need for intervention on the operators of digital platforms, who will be obliged to activate prohibitions to be applied directly also on the reporting of a 14-year-old, and this is the novelty. Mr President, I repeat the vote in favour of Forza Italia with the hope that this draft law will be implemented as soon as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u72	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank the entire Senate House for the vote on the articles and thank you in advance for the vote that will be voted - I hope unanimously - on the measure. I dedicate this vote to the parents and sister of Antonella, the ten-year-old girl of Palermo, who was found in the bathroom on January 21, 2021, after having tied a rope around her neck live with other participants in a unfortunate challenge called blackout challenge and that took her life. I also dedicate this vote to the eleven-year-old boy of Naples who launched himself into the void on 30 September 2020 to follow the black man and, before jumping off the balcony of the house, left a card for the parents: Mom, Dad, I love you. I have to follow the man with the black hood. I don't have time anymore. Forgive me: the challenge in this case was Jonathan Galindo. I dedicate today's vote to Igor, a 14-year-old boy, found himself hanged in Milan after getting involved in another challenge, the hangout challenge. In 2017, another girl in Palermo, at the age of twelve, died during the challenge of the blue whale challenge. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is a dramatic phenomenon, which is constantly increasing and 96 percent of parents are unaware that their children are taking part in this kind of social challenge. One in four children between eleven and fourteen years of age intentionally saw images of children or girls self - injurying; 80 percent of the young people who conducted self - injury found information on the web; 18 percent of teenagers from eleven to thirteen years of age practice self - injury because of the web. The average age at which children begin to perform injuries is 12.8 years. From October 2020 to today we have had more than 30 percent psychiatric admissions for acts of self-harm by minors and for attempted suicides and only at the Children's Hospital Jesus in Rome there was a 65 percent increase in admissions for attempted suicide or self-harm. This law will obviously not solve all the problems, but it is another step in the right direction to protect our children and our children. Technically, we introduced into the Italian legal order the case of incitement to self-harm, which was not there. Anyone who goes to incite our boys to self-harm, until this law is in force, is free of punishment because there is no intended crime. The hope is, therefore, that this rule, in addition to being approved today here in the Senate, will soon carry out its iter also to the House to become the law of the State as soon as possible. With this rule we have also provided for the criminality of conduct committed abroad because very often the torturers hide abroad. We are convinced that this is a fair rule and that it must become state law as soon as possible. I thank all political forces and, in particular, allow me special thanks to those who have signed this bill with me, to Senator Evangelista, to my colleagues in the Justice Commission Balboni, Cucca, Mirabelli, Caliendo, Grasso and the other Leaders. Let's defend our children together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u75	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, blackout, eye balling, Jonathan Galindo, blue whale, Momo are among the many games of online challenges that have shocked public opinion in recent years. The protagonists, i.e. the victims, are our teenagers. These are tests of courage that push the youngest to overcome their limits by defying even death. In fact, in these online games one second more or less separates life from death. In most cases it all starts with a simple request for friendship on Instagram, Tik Tok or Facebook like: do you want to play with me? Once accepted the invitation begins the race, which as a rule is organized in several steps, with ever greater difficulties from time to time, until reaching self-harm or, in the most tragic cases, death. It is necessary, albeit painful, to remember the umpteenth episode of the chronicle that saw the protagonist of the suicide of an 11 year old Neapolitan child who, before throwing himself from the eleventh floor, wrote to his parents: "Mom, Dad, I love you, but I must follow the man with the hood". The hooded man was nothing but Jonathan Galindo. Colleagues, the spread in recent years of providers able to connect to the Internet has in fact generated in children the perception that there are places where impunity is the rule, exponentially increasing the possibilities of coming into contact with similar practices. Generalized access to the network in the form of images, videos, blogs and online chat if carried out without the necessary care can expose the teenager to the risk of encountering contents not suitable for his state of psychophysical development. The data shared by audits in the Justice Committee are alarming. One in four youths aged between eleven and fourteen claimed to have intentionally seen images of other youngsters suffering injuries online. 60 percent said they shared images of self-harmful behavior on social networks. In this regard, let us remember that the pandemic emergency has further worsened this picture: it is noted that 65 percent of the children who arrived in the emergency room of the Child Jesus of Rome from October to today attempted suicide or practiced a marked self-harm. The motivations that lead a subject to self - suffering are different. Putting self-reliant behaviors into action means transforming into physical suffering and, therefore, into a more real and more easily manageable form an emotional suffering that you do not know how else to manage. Self-harm is often also seen as a spy for suicide. The draft law approved by the Commission on the drafting of justice forms part of the framework outlined above, providing for dual protection against children who are incited to violence or self-harm. On the one hand, the commission to the detriment of a minor of the above-mentioned conducts is recognised as an independent criminal offence, together with the provision of an involvement, included in the crime of incitement to suicide, if committed by means of computer or telematic tools; on the other hand, in order to prevent the dissemination of video images or audio recordings related to the conduct of self-injury and incitement to suicide committed by computer or computer tools, the mechanism of obscuration, removal or blocking in charge of the holders of the treatment or the operators of digital platforms is processed. Of course, I would like to thank all my colleagues for bringing this measure home, particularly Senator Pillon, the first signatory, and all the other members of the Justice Commission. In particular, I would like to mention the adoption of an amendment to my own name, which seeks to fill a gap by harmonising this legislation with the provisions of the Cyberbullying Act and the mechanism for protecting against revenge porn. Specifically, the controller or the operator of the digital platform that does not proceed, within 48 hours of receipt of the application, to the removal, darkening or blocking of the contents may be forced on the basis of a measure of the Data Protection Supervisor. In conclusion, Mr President, the protection of children is the main investment of every civil community. The Movimento 5 Stars will always stand by them and for this reason I declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group and ask for permission to deposit the text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u76	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Evangelista. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u79	MOLLAME (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to express my condolences to the relatives of the victims and to all the citizens of Ravanusa. A terrible explosion has caused seven victims; at the moment there are still two missing. They are absolutely innocent victims. Today, while we are talking about issues related to the needs of having gas and energy, probably for an old-fashioned network, probably also due to some slight hydrogeological disruption, a tragedy has occurred. All of Sicily in recent weeks has been crossed by great phenomena of rains and another tragedy can be said to have been avoided for a short time: that of the collapse of the crossing of the river San Bartolomeo, in the territory of Castellammare del Golfo. Even there a flood, caused by the huge rains, probably dug out the embankments and brought down the crossing on a state road. It will be my responsibility to intervene at the Ministry of Infrastructure, so that a solution can be found immediately, probably with a Commissioner ad acta. I also wanted to emphasise something that I think is very important. For a few decades we have abandoned a costume and a culture, those of maintenance. It is urgent that the Government adopts ordinary and extraordinary maintenance measures for all the infrastructures of our territory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u82	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 2021 ends with the adoption of bill 882 on crimes against cultural heritage, signed by Mr Franceschini himself, who destroyed the Ministry of Cultural Heritage. I must stress, therefore, the propagandistic character that this operation, in itself meritorious, assumes for its timing. Like others, in fact, it is functional to accredit the candidacy to the Quirinale, as well-deserved of the culture, of this paradoxical subject. I come to the Palace of Caserta. Colleagues, if the warehouses of the state museums contain treasures that the same ministerial vulgate defines as "hidden and forgotten," thus accusing itself of negligence, what now begins to come out of those warehouses - obviously due to the super directors, direct emanations of the "Sinister of Culture" - can only be exceptional, fantastic, wonderful, sublime and, of course, unexpected. Thus, on October 1st, the Palace of Caserta presented to the press the latest discovery, hidden and forgotten also: the sculpture of a sleeping infant. The director of the Reggia, according to the narration of the discovery of the relic proposed to the faithful (that is, to us all, because we are asked, precisely, to believe in a revealed truth by faith), noticed it first and, instead of turning to the inventory office, where the last record of the piece, also available online, is from 1987 and not from two thousand years ago, involved the art historian who, by chance, is responsible for communication, who immediately thought could be the work of Giuseppe Sammartino, the greatest Neapolitan sculptor of the eighteenth century. And, discovering the author of a lost effigy of Carlo Tito, the first male son of Ferdinand IV and Maria Carolina of Naples, identified the infant with the little Bourbon. In fact, nothing ensures that the sculpture is of Sammartino and that it represents the heir to the throne. But instead of opening a scientific debate on the subject, the press and the public the identity of the sculptor and the infant were given for absolutely certain. Yet the ethical code of the museums requires every effort to ensure the credibility of the museums. We are, instead, in front of a shack, comparable to those of Pompeii. In fact, the director Osanna immediately proposed a large project "Reggia di Caserta" to be financed with the deniers of the PNRR. And what about Naples, where today the National Museum looks like a supermarket on Saturday evening, with rooms and walls full of empty spaces because of the expedition abroad of many works, even identity? Alexander's mosaic was saved only because the restoration revealed him more fragile and in need of care than anyone who thought he wanted to remove him from the wall and send him to Tokyo. In short, the year ends with a positive note (the approval of the bill n. 882), but the negatives are preponderant. Nor can I forget that for me it ends with 130 questions to the Minister of Minc Franceschini and only 16 answers, all unsettling. Let's hope for 2022. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u83	Senator, you know you take responsibility for what you say.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u86	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to recall this evening an innocent victim of Camorra, Giuseppina Guerriero. She was named after the town park of Faibano di Marigliano, my city. It was named after her, the innocent victim of Camorra. Giuseppina, mother of four children, on September 2, 1998, at the age of forty-three, was killed by fatality and murderous fury, during an ambush of camorra. A rain of crazy bullets, typical of clashes and chamoristic feuds, struck her while, by chance, she was aboard her car. How many mourners, how much innocent blood has been shed in so many, too many camorristic ambushes. Victims like Josephine, whose only fault was to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. His sacrifice, which our community wanted to remember with a very intense and participated ceremony, in which he named this park to his memory, cannot and must not be forgotten. This initiative not only wants to be a mere commemoration, but also to send out a strong signal of the presence of the State in our territories. A clear message to reaffirm the contrast and the fight against all forms of violence and abuse. [[Applause]] This park, where children and families play, walk and spend moments of carefreeness and relaxation has the same meaning as houses and land confiscated from Camorra and become places of aggregation for children with disabilities or social cooperatives that involve many young people in difficulties of our communities. Moments like these are an important sign in the fight against camorra and not to forget the sacrifice of those who have been innocent victims. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u89	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing the solidarity of the entire Movimento 5 Star Group with the community of Ravanusa, which has been hit by a serious tragedy in recent days for the explosion that has taken place. We are all close to the families of the victims and these episodes must make a lot of reflection, with the hope that they will no longer occur. My speech this evening stems from the many reports I have received that I want to bring to the attention of the House and the public about a serious situation that is affecting the John Paul II Hospital in Sciacca regarding the chronic and serious shortage of medical personnel. I know very well the reality of that hospital, having carried out within it my thirty-year professional activity as a doctor in the emergency area, and already during my experience I found myself operating alone assisted by auxiliary nurses, which I thank again for their tireless professionalism, combined with great self-denial at work. This situation, which continues to persist even at the present time, obviously has strong repercussions on the doctor's ability to assist patients in an appropriate way, and has worsened further with the closure of Ribera's emergency room, which has led to a further extension of the basin that gravits on Sciacca's emergency room. Therefore, in reaffirming my absolute opposition to the closure of the emergency room in Ribera, it is necessary to strengthen, both from the point of view of the equipment and, mainly, from that of the staff, the emergency room of the hospital in Sciacca. In fact, at normal daily activity in the emergency-emergency area the doctor can find himself in the situation of performing a diagnostic and therefore therapeutic orientation from a symptom often only reported, carrying out his work even on several patients at the same time flocked to hospital in need of care. Therefore, the possibilities of focusing on the patient and dealing with another colleague are the minimum conditions for assistance to be carried out in the best possible way. It is obvious that the shortage of medical staff is an absolute possibility to be avoided in the exclusive interest of the patient. The concrete solutions that can be adopted are, therefore, to launch public competitions to cover all vacancies in staff and to ensure the presence in emergency-emergency areas of at least three doctors per shift, with adequate nursing and auxiliary staff, thus ensuring adequate assistance also to the patient who remains in the emergency room for short observation for the completion of the diagnostic procedure so that he can determine his discharge or hospitalization. I should like to end by expressing my firm hope that the local health authorities will take final action on the shortage of doctors at the hospital in Sciacca by taking the specific measures that I have highlighted before. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u92	SACCONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to this House the drama that almost 300 families of Jesi are experiencing from Caterpillar, an American multinational company that has had the dramatic news of communicating, in grotesque and unworthy ways, the dismissal of nearly 300 employees. We also consider this totally unacceptable because there are no conditions: it is a company considered by Fortune, the international magazine, among the top 100 quality production companies in the world. I wonder and ask this House whether this is the way, namely to dismiss people with the Director-General accompanied by the bodyguards. We went from texting to bodyguards. This mode offends us and offends the dignity of the person. This is a company that even tripled the shift, so there is absolutely no question of demand. We urgently call for the intervention of the Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, but at the same time we ask, Mr President, for the intervention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because diplomats, ambassadors of an allied country, which enjoys our highest esteem, when they go abroad, protect economic interests. We would therefore also like our diplomats, including our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to involve the US embassy through a moral suasion, so that the unworthy behaviour of this multinational is stopped and given serenity to these families who do not deserve such treatment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u95	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I have to say that I am making this speech with a little embarrassment, because we are unfortunately talking about the disappearance of a senator who gave glory to Sardinian politics, really coming from nothing, as I shall have to say shortly, to even become the leader of the People's Party in the European Parliament. In recent days Senator Joshua Ligios has passed away in Nuoro. To understand who he was, just remember that Senator Ligios was semi illiterate until the age of twenty. Belonging to a very humble family of shepherds only, at the age of twenty he decided, with great strength and great courage, to redeem himself and he started to study, even against the address of his family, just think that he told that one of the brothers had given his books to pigs. Yet, despite that gesture, that same brother later, when he realized what the strength, tenacity and willingness to arrive on the part of his brother was, helped him economically to complete his studies. In a few months he took the elementary, the middle, the upper and went to study at the university graduating in agrarian. His vision, of course, opened up a new world to him, and the studies themselves of agrarianism brought him even closer to the Sardinian community. He came close to the world of Christian Democracy, which was then represented by emblematic figures of the most important of Nuorese, constituent Fathers as were Senator Antonio Monni and Senator Salvatore Mannironi, who was also Minister of the Republic, as well as having held various positions as Undersecretary. He, as I said, then approached politics and in a few years he burned the stages and was a protagonist of Sardinian political life. In 1964 he was President of the Province of Nuoro, Regional Councillor in 1969, Regional Councillor, Senator for three legislatures and Undersecretary for the Treasury, European Parliamentary for three mandates and elected also Leader of the People's Party in Europe (which is not exactly a small task). Obviously, in his humility, he was always close to the Sardinian community, he was always among the most humble, of whom he knew the problems well, as he knew well the problems of the territory and gave real shine to the Sardinian political life. When it comes to him, using the term "extraordinary" is no longer rhetorical. It is indeed the duty of all of us to honour his memory and I regret - I repeat - that we end up talking about a man who has manifested so much greatness in an empty Chamber, but I think it was still necessary to do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-386.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 15 December, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6.50 p.m.
