ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00332, tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators, and 1-00296, tabled by Senator Castellone and other senators, on the strengthening of home care for patients with Covid-19. I remember that in yesterday's sitting the motions were explained, the debate took place, the motions were withdrawn and the agendas of the G1 were presented, signed by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli, and G2, signed by Senators Romeo, Castellone, Binetti, Errani, Boldrini, Zaffini, Parente and others. The representative of the Government gave an opinion against the G1 agenda and in favour of the G2 agenda, subject to changes accepted by the proposers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u7	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, I announce the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour of the G2 agenda (text 2), signed by all political forces. These days, when an agreement is reached between all political health forces with a unanimous vote, it is always and only good news. In particular, I would like to thank the presenters and presenters of the motions for mediation work between the political forces, in particular Senator Castellone and the colleagues from the Health Commission who have committed themselves to this agenda. We talk about home care and with the agenda we ask the Government to update, through the Higher Institute of Health, Agenas and AIFA, the protocols of care - or it would be better to call them treatment strategies - for general medicine doctors, free choice pediatricians and doctors of all experiences. Basically, what we are asking is to overcome the concept of vigilant waiting for Covid patients at the start of the disease. After a year of experience it is appropriate to give doctors space on a range of possibilities for the use of drugs, anti-inflammatory drugs or others, of course always in the field of scientific studies, as explained yesterday by the Undersecretary Sileri in reference to the November circular. And we do this especially for the most fragile patients, the elderly and those suffering from pathologies. The basic concept is the early take-up of people who get sick. In Italy, unfortunately, we have recorded and still record too many deaths; one of the causes is probably excessive hospitalization and, therefore, it is very important - I would say fundamental - the early take-up of patients. While Italy is engaged in the acceleration of the vaccination campaign, with a more orderly plan that starts from the priorities for age and unique on the whole national level, there are, unfortunately, still many people, many families suffering from the disease from Covid-19. We also record and intercept as parliamentarians the cry of pain of those families, of the people who complain about loneliness, the isolation - the most serious issue of this disease is the constraint to isolation - and it is useless to hide that we record it also in many complaints of citizenship regarding the intervention or not of family doctors. On the other hand, there are many family doctors who from below - Senator Romeo recalled yesterday - in this year have also built spontaneous groups of exchange of experiences, of mutual comfort. We always say that doctors are heroes, but they also need mutual comfort, exchange of experiences, good practices from below, with a daily commitment. There are doctors who call their patients on the phone or on video calls several times during the day, who have also learned to recognize from the patient's voice the possible - from all averted - worsening of the disease. Well, we must stand by these doctors with concrete decisions, as the agenda demands, with the updating of the protocols and doing much more. Mr. Undersecretary, we should invest - for example - even for a saturometer in every family, so that with this instrument we help doctors understand what is happening to the patient. We should give directions not to suspend medicines - for example - for chronic patients even in case of Covid-19 disease. We should give social support: not everyone has the opportunity to have large homes; not everyone has the opportunity to be cared for by family members. And, therefore, we must absolutely implement social and health integration, which we always talk about, in order to give support to families and above all to the most needy people; a psychological type of support. How many times in the Health Commission we have talked about this: there is also the continuation of the disease from Covid, because when it comes out there are so many trascichi for which you also need psychological support. The motion also calls for the provision of telemedicine tools, which is very important. But, in order to be really close to doctors, nurses and all the social and health personnel who go to patients' homes and help to cure the sick, we must always keep humanity and technology together, because the human relationship between the doctor and the patient is the most important one, even for this very bad disease. We must avoid the desert between general medicine and the hospital and work for it. Our Commission is committed to the issue of territorial medicine. The NRP of the Government indicates some solutions to have a territorial garrison and ensure a continuity of care between the house, the hospital and vice versa. It is the goal for which we must commit ourselves as the political class of this time. I appeal to the Government: in June 2020 we had already approved a very important motion on swabs, voted by all political forces. Probably, if we had put it into practice, we would have avoided blowing up active surveillance of the territories, even here with huge regional differences. We learned - as I think the Senator Pirro said yesterday - some terms that were previously only for the professionals, such as molecular tampons or antigenic tampons. In that motion we already gave very strong indications and now we complain that it has not been heard. I turn then to the Undersecretary Sileri and the Government: let us quickly update these home care, let us try to have a positive synergy between the Government and Parliament on this issue and let us immediately follow the motion that will be voted, precisely, by all political forces, because we must be close to the people who suffer and especially to those who care for them. If we take care of the curer, we'll get out of this epidemic more easily. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u10	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps this morning the paradox of the act we are producing and - I want to hope quickly - dismiss unanimously does not seem to be the most intimate and somewhat distracted way in which the Senate works. The paradox lies in the fact that the Senate of the Republic recommends, urges and gives a push to the Government to do - I would say - almost the least indispensable of its duty, namely the updating of the protocols of care of the Covid-19. We are talking about something that is part of the ordinary administration, the management of a condominium, of the great condominium of this country, engaged in an emergency called emergency by Covid-19, that is found an indispensable instrument, such as a protocol to be assigned to the Regions and, through the Regions, to all health personnel engaged in the treatment of homelessness, not updated. Today we have a document on 30 November. Today it is 8 April. In the meantime, many things have happened, even in the characteristics of the virus that circulates differently than before November 30. Variants have intervened, new drugs have intervened, and all this is unknown to the Ministry of Health and, apparently, to our scientific community; and by scientific community I mean the Higher Institute of Health, the AIFA and its council. From 30 November to today it serves the Senate of the Republic to ring the bell and say "wake up": this is a gigantic paradox, colleagues. It is not by chance that we of Brothers of Italy, very happily, have lent ourselves, in the unanimity urged by my colleague Senator Castellone - I thank her as always for the work she carries out - to subscribe to this document, because it, although no one seemed to me to have wanted to observe it, is yet another paradigmatic proof of the thousand failures, delays, gaps and at this point also of the fault of the action of contrast to the pandemic, which characterized the activity of the Count Government, before, and of the Dragon Government, today, in substantial continuity. Today the Senate of the Republic has to say to the Minister of Health and to all the apparatus that surrounds it to update a protocol of cure dated 30 November, and that - as was also observed by the President of the Commission hygiene and health, whom I thank for his speech - suggested, among other things, the watchful expectation and the paracetamol, that is, what is basically has literally broken down - I repeat: broken down! - our hospitals and intensive therapies. I repeat: the watchful waiting and the paracetamol! With regard to all this, I cannot help but feel compelled to ask, once again, what a minister needs to do to be replaced. And I say that with all due respect for his figure, because obviously there is nothing personal. Colleagues, tell me what I need to do. I quote a second paradox and I am sorry in this case to have to mention an exception addressed to my colleague Sileri, who has read a report evidently prepared for him by someone else. The representative of the Government arrives in the Chamber at this time and, instead of saying "Well, whatever," yes, but... "or I honestly don't know what he could have said to exculpate, even partial, and in fact he illustrates a home drug treaty to an assembly that makes politics or should make politics. Again, I have listened to the government representative's report and once again I cannot help noticing that we are totally out of line. This is where we explain ourselves, in an absolutely dramatic way, why the country has made them all wrong until today. We have the record of deaths and we still can't explain what happened and why we have that record, although we started first with a dramatic lockdown in March last year. We have seen the worst reduction in GDP across Europe, and so the two measures, which should operate as communicating vessels, i.e. the restrictions to prevent the worsening of the pandemic, are both at the top, at the highest level. We failed tracking, which we have long lost, with the famous Immuni app. Today, April 8th, we tell the Minister - I don't know when he will comply: probably in a month - to make the protocol for home care. Do you think he'll do it tomorrow? It will be done in a month and so, once again, from November to today we are without protocol for home care. We're failing on the last beach, which is the one in the vaccination campaign. We are still struggling with the lack of vaccines. Also the Covid decree deals with the ability of the Regions to administer and inoculate vaccines. But I tell General Son that we have machine guns, but we don't have cartridges, in the sense that there are no vaccines. This is the dramatic reality. Even in the plan of General Son, which for the first quarter, that is to say at 31 March last, provided for more than 15 million doses, more than 2 million are missing from the appeal. Colleagues, in the face of all this pandemonium that is happening, I believe that we must make a reset and really demand a change of paradigm compared to the action of contrast of the pandemic put in place by the government. We do not need to remember here that just a few days ago the economic newspapers told us that in Italy, in a year of pandemics, we lost almost a million jobs, without the possibility of dismissal being liberalised: even with the blocking of redundancies we lost a million jobs. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, even to those who are more realistic than the king, even to those who act to be more realistic than the king, should provide not so much, but a whisper of dignity, and I do not get another word; a whisper of dignity in demanding that this Government do its duty to the full, starting with the Minister of Health who is facing this pandemic. If you want him to stay, at least do different things. Today the Senate of the Republic bypasses the Minister in doing its duty, the minimum indispensable - I have to say the minimum trade union - and tells him to update that circular protocol of 30 November last, which also at that date brought back some castronery, as the whole scientific community affirms. Colleagues, I hope that in the next few days more or less the same thing will happen in many other areas: certified, found the limited ability to fight the epidemic, I hope that the Senate, as far as we are concerned - and the Commission, as far as I am concerned - can replace other times virtuously to integrate the shortcomings, the delays, the gaps and - I would like to say - the serious faults of this Government, whose results, whose dramatic effects are now before everyone's eyes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u13	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Undersecretary Sileri, let us start from the premises which, however, are given in fact: the virus from Covid-19 is a pathogen unknown to the scientific community until December 2019, we have to tell you these things; moreover, the health authorities knew nothing about the disease resulting from the infection, let alone how to deal with it, because this problem was faced for the first time. Therefore, scientific communities, as they often do without protocols, have begun to put into practice approaches on similar diseases existing before the Covid, obviously without therapeutic protocols or factual data and certainties. However, especially at that time, the most serious patients were tending to be hospitalized, with the consequent clogging of hospital facilities. Subsequently, the scientific community, which has not remained unarmed, began to assess whether at least for the least serious cases it was possible to proceed with home management, precisely with the home care that we are dealing with today. Despite the great effort to make the indications as homogeneous as possible - health professionals have experienced situations and assessed what was best for our citizens - arrived at this point, although there were also guidelines of the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA), taking charge at home was however a very particular topic, always with emerging problems. However, although we want to standardize and homogenize everything we want, our health system in this pandemic has brought out some critical issues that still exist: the fact that we have 21 different health systems that merge into a single unitary system of indications, also through homogeneous guidelines, is very complicated. It is a good thing that we are all coming together with this united document today, and I would like to thank my colleagues for what they have done to bring this text together, because for our citizens it is obviously a very important signal that all political forces converge on a single document. It is a document that has a very important value, but we must not hide - and I mean this - that the factor of territoriality cannot be ignored. The health services on the territory, therefore, will be the greatest challenge for the applicability of these national guidelines and protocols that, as the undersecretary Sileri explained yesterday, are expanding and therefore there are so many, therefore it has become important that they be applied in a homogeneous way on the territory. From this point of view, as usual, the most important problem emerges, because we see it also in the vaccination campaign: apart from the huge problem of having doses, which is actually the priority one, a very important role plays it the way in which health services and professionals are organized, the health facilities and the directions of all the bodies involved. There are examples of remarkable efficiency, because there are vaccination points with organized professionals. I know my territory and I know what I'm saying. There are examples of efficiency and excellence, but - alas - there are also examples of disorganization, where unfortunately we still see patients in the queue at a distance of 100 kilometers, who maybe arrive carrying a car seat. These are problems of organization, so we can define all the protocols that we want, but dropping them on the territory, because it is the territory that must make the guidelines feasible. Much depends on the indications, but also on how they apply, on the tools that are available and on the staff. Among the commitments we have included in this agenda, therefore, it is good that there is a monitoring table at which all the professionals involved in the territorial assistance paths sit, given the need to harmonise and systematize all actions in the field, including social and health care and family support to ensure that no one is left alone, especially the fragile people, because of course that is the category that we always have in mind to support. As Minister Sileri said yesterday, proposing the reformulations, this must take place in the respect of regional autonomy and once again we are faced with this critical issue which unfortunately we must keep under control. We all want our citizens, from the North to the South of our nation, to be treated with the same and the best therapies so that they can get out of this pandemic, but we also know very well that it is difficult to have homogeneity throughout our territory. The issue of doses, as you said, ladies and gentlemen, is another very important issue. I hope that now, with the new Commissioner Figlio, we can put more pressure in Europe to guarantee the doses they promised us, otherwise it will be difficult to maintain the standard of 500,000 doses a day for our territory and get out of the pandemic in a very short time. Parliament must give strength to the government today, highlighting everything that is necessary to be able to best care for our citizens. It is a commitment that we ask the Government, of course, but this does not imply that we must remain outside this responsibility, because all of us, since we belong to different regions, must know that these guidelines must be respected and applied. It is with this constraint that we must vote today in favour of this united commitment, that it is not only written on paper and that each of us must feel responsible for. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u16	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, voting on a unitary agenda on home assistance today is a good thing. Yesterday, undersecretary Sileri explained to us, in my opinion, in a very appreciable way, the attention with which the issue is being addressed. I just want to say two things about home care. As for the first, we must pay the utmost attention to using all the scientific evidence to deal with the patients of Covid in time, but this requires (I have heard the criticism of the Minister and there is everything) a territorial organization that has actually jumped over the years. If someone wanted to look carefully at what has happened in recent years in the territorial network of the different Regions (and I do not list the Regions), he could recognize, with intellectual honesty, that in some of them the spatial structure and organization for taking care of patients were questioned. This issue is very important. I would like to raise a proposal which I have already put forward in this House and which now, thanks to the initiative of some senators, the Health and Health Commission intends to take on board: we are finally having a serious debate on the health system in this House, evaluating the experiences on the ground not to give votes or to make rankings, but to understand what we really have to do for recovery and how to make the best use of the resources available, as well as what plant to define, also from an organizational point of view, so that that federalism of abandonment, under which each region does what it wants, does not exist anymore. From this point of view, I believe that the problem lies not so much in Title V of the Constitution, but in the fact that the fundamental principles to which all the Regions must conform (I refer not only to the essential levels of assistance, but also to the territorial organization) have never been derived so that the same organizational formula is applied throughout the national territory. That's for home care. I now turn to the other two points. After more than a year of pandemics we can take stock: more than 112,000 deaths, a huge economic crisis with more than 900,000 jobs lost and the fall in GDP and an increase in people's alarm. We have seen the demonstrations that there have been and it is good to condemn violence - we would miss it - but the question we have to ask ourselves is: what is our role? The tension between our citizens is quite understandable, but I ask all of us: is it right to represent this tragedy as a confrontation between open tourists and rigors? I want to say this clearly: I think this is nonsense, stupidity, but it is absolutely dangerous, especially if the person who does it has a leading institutional responsibility and is in the majority of government. It's very serious. As you know, President Bonaccini and the Minister for Health have received very serious threats. Think and think. I would also like to make it clear that we will never accept that the Minister of Health is responsible for this situation in the theatre of political representation. That is unacceptable. And I hope - the Undersecretary will report it - that the President of the Council will explain, in clear words, that the choices made are not of the Minister Hope, but are of the Government, of the majority, of the Republic. [[Applause]] Be careful, because I wouldn't want crocodile tears to arrive on this ground in a while. Here we play the game of responsibility and must play it all; otherwise, we assume the very serious responsibility to do a damage not to a political part, but to Italy, to our country. I would like you to reflect on one point: we are discussing opening or closing. The most serious thing - I say this personally - is to wait for the cases to begin to actually decrease in relation also to the employment of beds in intensive care and hospitals. It is necessary to rebuild the tracing, because in these months - you all know - it has not been possible. With the reconstituted tracking and vaccines then we can talk seriously about reopenings, in a controlled and safe way. If you have any doubts, look at what is happening in France and Germany. But how much time do we still have to waste in unnecessary discussions? Let's give a clear message to the Italians, because they need it. I shall end by dwelling on one final point. I propose that you take a clear initiative: the only way to deal with the vaccine emergency is firstly to suspend patents. [[Applause]] The whole Assembly, then, takes an initiative: ask President Draghi to deploy our country together with the more than 100 countries that have already signed the request to the WTO to suspend the patents on vaccines. Do you see how clear it is that Big Pharma is unable, without this choice, to solve problems? I call on all my colleagues to sign a document asking the government to make this clear choice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u19	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing today with the examination of these motions and fortunately with the presentation of a unitary agenda, which commits the whole of Parliament and which, therefore, we hope has the strength of the Government to achieve the fulfilment of the commitments set out in our motion, really touches the heart of the problem. The heart of the problem today is that we have discovered that in Italy on the one hand we have a hospital health system with very high evolution, also from the technological point of view, and on the other hand a home health that in some way still suffers from instrumental poverty from the diagnostic point of view and of relational rarefaction. We know well that the general medical doctor, the so-called family doctor, is very hard today to go to the patient's home and take care of him, even simply looking at him in the face. Very often this relationship matures and runs out in the course of a phone call; and not even a new phone call (looking into the eyes via Skype, to understand what the patient needs), but rather an old phone call. What do I mean by that today? We must rethink territorial medicine, at least in three ways. The first fundamental aspect is that of the competence of the general medical doctor. We need to return to the general medical doctor a much more sophisticated clinical competence than what it very often absorbs through the traditional medical school. We need to know today (what we have touched with hand) how much the general medicine doctor of the paintings knows, such as that of bilateral interstitial pneumonia, which characterized the whole evolution of the pandemic as an element of gravity; what does the general medicine doctor know in a formative context that frees the clinical experience from the more strictly territorial experience? He is not exposed to the important training report of the broad-spectrum hospital structure, such as the one that should ensure his clinical training. We need to review this training. It will be useless to spend time and energy on enhancing the competence of the physician in territorial medicine, if we do not guarantee him all the tools necessary to achieve that training that today, given the sophisticated level in which our differential diagnosis moves, he must succeed in obtaining. Secondly, we need territorial medicine to make real use of the latest technology. We cannot use outdated tools and we cannot underestimate its digitalisation training. We need these doctors to be able to make a diagnosis by doing even the simplest things: I think, for example, of the electrocardiogram to be sent, seen and read; I think of the possibility of establishing contact with other colleagues and with other competent people in the form of virtual briefings. Today, sophisticated technology must be transferred to the patient's bed or at the patient's home, in his home. That's where we have to bring technology. All of us are used to receiving information and data on the cell phone we have in our pockets, which vibrates continuously keeping us, willing or not, connected to a direct wire. We need every patient to be, in some way, the center of a delayed digitization, according to the old hub and spoke model, so you have a central where you concentrate the skills of a certain type and a capillary distribution in real time, which today is not there. Then, we need a third fundamental element that is, paradoxically, the other side of this sophisticated digitalization, widespread and widespread thrust, which is the quality of interpersonal relationship. We have heard and we all know that, for the most varied reasons, very often the one that has failed during this period of pandemic was the report. The patients felt lonely: they felt lonely because, somehow, we isolated them and felt lonely because, somehow, they isolated themselves. There is the patient who isolated himself, at first, from a form of fear of contagion. Then, however, this fear turned into another thing, in the fear of going to the hospital, that is, the fear of leaving home and of not seeing loved ones anymore. We found ourselves in a rarefied context, in which the patient was really in a middle ground that was not marked neither by hospital medicine of high technological profile, and was characterized by the absolute lack of social and health care. The requests that the territory must guarantee in terms of quality, reception and taking charge have failed. Our motion says these three things: we want and demand more and better training for general medical doctors, also in terms of the ability to work in multi-professional teams. A very interesting bill has been filed on the figure of the home nurse, the family nurse. It is not an accessory part to this project, because even the general medical doctor who works on the territory cannot do it alone, but needs to work with others, because he needs to intercept the patient's needs at 360 degrees and, once he has intercepted them, obviously he needs to satisfy them. We know today that the doctor looks his patient in the face according to a style of clinical, academic, social, organizational and technological training. I said academic because we also need to bring scientific reflection back to the work of the general medical doctor. If general medicine does not produce scientific activity, what we measure with the number of publications that come out, with their quality and with their impact factor, if research is not done starting from the patient's bed, in the patient's home, in the circumstances in which the patient lives, we will not be able to improve the quality of the patient. Every night we repeat it: decisions must be made on the basis of science, but if I do not do without being able to make appropriate decisions. Therefore, we must restore a very deep dignity to the person, to the work and to the model of home care. We must invest technologically and courageously. It's not just the computer kids use. It is with the network that travels the information; it is in the network that travels, fortunately, the recipe dematerialized, for which doctor visits you, makes the recipe, sends it directly to the pharmacy and someone can go and take the medicine or from the pharmacy can take it home. This, in fact, has taught us the present moment. We need to rethink general medicine at 360 degrees. We need cultural resources, economic resources, social resources and technological resources, but we need a vision. We need to rethink it with a different vision. It's not a B-grade medicine. It is a medicine that must be a standard A and, moreover, a starry one, precisely because it must reverse a position. This is necessary if we want to free hospitals from unnecessary admissions, which weigh down the structures and then do not allow to focus on patients with very high criticality. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u22	FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, history teaches us that in the past humanity has experienced many epidemics and pandemics, but in January last year we would never have imagined that we would live one with the dramas and consequences that we know well today. This virus, initially unknown, reminded us of our fragility, highlighting the need to rethink a new model of health care. It is also clear that policies based solely on austerity have imposed horizontal cuts in key areas such as public health in the past years, and the lack of programming in medical specializations. You don't need to remember the darkest and most painful moments that are impressed in each of us, the tragedies and dramas that have been consumed and that still live in the homes of the Italians, the lost eyes of our grandparents, our parents and the sense of impotence of many operators and doctors. Fortunately, people who devote their lives to science have made enormous strides and, together with the arrival of vaccines, the taking of patients has gradually adapted and improved. The knowledge gained this year, thanks to the scientific community and the doctors who have also sacrificed their lives, has led to the understanding that it is possible to treat patients at home. The territorial network has had and plays a crucial role with doctors of general medicine, pediatricians of free choice, nurses who, together with the Special Care Continuity Units (USCA), play a fundamental role within the social and health fabric, treating the subjects at home and avoiding hospitalization. What has been understood is that the Covid-19 will continue to circulate and, if the immunity of flock is not soon reached, variants will inevitably multiply. We will probably have to learn to live with this situation for some time, but it is precisely for this reason that we need to learn to manage the situation in order to return as soon as possible to a normal life, made up of everyday gestures, work, relationships and social relations. Faced with the collective awareness of wanting to return to life, there is the need to reform territorial medicine, providing for a real integration between the hospital network and the territory in order to keep the patient at home as much as possible, through highly advanced care according to principles of appropriateness and innovation. Parliament must play a leading role in this. I would remind you that in the 12th Commission we are dealing with the future and reorganization of territorial medicine, which will have precise guidelines. Now it is all the more necessary and urgent to update the protocols of home care now dated in the light of experience in the field, overcoming the concept of vigilant expectation and giving the possibility to users to see prescribed the drugs considered most appropriate, finally taking into account the individual case. The Minister of Health, with the support of the Higher Institute of Health, the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas) and the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA), must proceed to this end in order to have univocal guidelines available, complete and updated to the scientific, clinical and experiential evidence of professionals employed directly on the field. The picture of the situation is dramatic. The court of the sick has millions of specialist visits suspended; thousands of admissions have not been carried out; almost 500,000 interventions have been postponed, while more than 2 million cancer screenings have been postponed. There is an urgent need to reboot the health care machine in order to cope with other diseases, which in the meantime do not stop, on the contrary. To do this you need to normalize hospitals as much as possible and quickly, relaxing intensive therapies and managing Covid patients at home. This means house visits, effective territorial network, strengthening of the diagnostic network, remodulation of the care continuity service to create, with the general medical doctor and the pediatrician of free choice, a real service of care continuity and proximity. It is necessary to systematize functional aggregations, both medical and paediatric, even in microteams, in order to have adequate administrative, nursing and obstetric staff. Our good professionals should be valued: doctors of general medicine, free choice pediatricians, nurses and health care professionals, on the basis of protocols and guidelines that must take into account the contribution of those who daily care at home patients affected by the Covid. We are talking about professionals who soberly practice their profession, saving the lives of people and to whom our support must go and the convinced and unanimous thanks. [[Applause]] I am honoured to speak for my group today in an explanation of vote. Allow me, in anticipating the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, to thank all my colleagues in my party because everyone, no one excluded and everyone for their part, was a stimulus in the drafting of the motion on primary care. Applause goes to our leader Massimiliano Romeo, the first signatory of the motion on home care, today referred to the agenda that sees the whole Senate speaking with one voice. A thank you also goes to my colleague Bagnai, who, together with the Councillor Coletto, the contact person for our party in the field of health, presented the operational guidelines for the management of patients Covid-19 in the home. A thank you goes then to the availability of the Undersecretary Sileri, for having received the lawyer Grimaldi, Professor Cavanna and Dr Stramezzi of the Committee home care Covid, professionals who, like many other doctors, treat the patients at home. Finally, thank you to all the colleagues from the 12th Commission, no one excluded, for its availability and cooperation. Today, as often happens when we talk about health, we all come together. We call for the competent bodies to be as rapid and unanimous as possible tomorrow. [[Applause]] in updating the lines and protocols, so as to have a system up to the expectations and interests of the nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u25	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, undersecretary Sileri, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago I received the message of one of my closest friends, my colleague from the CNR in Naples. It said in the message: I haven't been well. I've had a fever for a week. As soon as you can, call me. I called her back almost immediately and, as she spoke, I realized that she had difficulty breathing, she was struggling. He told me that he had had a fever for a week, that he did not respond to Tachipirina and that the general medical doctor had not been able to visit her: we were in mid-March, at the beginning of the first lockdown. I remember calling his general medical doctor who I said that, in my opinion, there was a need to alert 118 because it could be Covid, even if my friend didn't remember having any contact at risk. And so the 118 went to Annamaria's house -- that's my friend's name -- measured her saturation, found her very low and hospitalized her. Here a first swab was carried out, but after three days there was still no result, so a second swab was carried out that unfortunately gave a positive result. We were 13 days away from the onset of the symptoms. Annamaria then sent me a voice message - which I still keep, like all the messages of those days - in which she said to me: I'm positive at Covid, they're moving me, don't abandon me. She was transferred to the hospital in Naples to treat infectious diseases and there finally started specific therapy, an antiviral therapy: but by now almost two weeks had passed since the first symptom, so that antiviral therapy had, unfortunately, little effect. She was first subjected to mechanical ventilation with her helmet and then to intubation, and then moved to an intensive care department where she fought for two weeks. Even in those two weeks I remember talking every day to the doctors in that department: real angels who assist patients with absolute dedication. [[Applause]] Those doctors every day I asked for updates on your medical condition and I also compared myself to what protocol I could use. I remember trying to find all the studies published in every corner of the world to look for something to do, even an attempt. We couldn't save her, and so, on April 4, 2020, she left. From that moment I am certain that against Covid you must intervene early if there is no response to symptomatic therapy. With Annamaria we were too late. In fact, a few months later the Ministry of Health, in a November 2020 circular, showed how latency between onset of symptoms, clinical evaluation and initiation of therapy could affect the course of the disease. In medicine, when there is no cure for an illness, the most powerful drug is always the doctor: the doctor who, with his scientific knowledge, the knowledge he has of his patients, but also with common sense, can always make the difference between life and death. In this regard I can think of a phrase that my mother used to tell me often when I chose to be a doctor; a phrase that she read as a child in the study of the podestà, which at the time was also the doctor of the country. Well, the phrase said that the physician is the one who seeks, with knowledge and conscience, to bring relief to the sufferer. We must therefore give our doctors all the means and means to carry out this noble task. Mr President, let me say that I am very proud of the work we have done this year as a Parliament and as a Health Commission. I particularly thank our President, Senator Parente, Undersecretary Sileri, Minister Hope for their dedication and their continuous commitment. Thanks to the work done this year, in the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience there is a real reform of health that starts from the territory; that territory that has been the weak link in the management of this pandemic, that territory that will finally see structured those networks of primary and intermediate care that so far constitute a reality only in some regions. Also thanks to our parliamentary work, we finally use monoclonal antibodies in Italy, which are a very important weapon to prevent the worsening of the disease. [[Applause]] As the President recalled, also thanks to the work of this House, which a few months ago approved a motion, even in that case in a unified way, today we use rapid antigen tests, which allow us to diagnose and isolate all positive cases in an early manner and thus reduce infection. Today this Parliament gives yet another proof of being at the service of its citizens. I would like to thank Mr Romeo, who is a signatory to the other motion for a resolution, for the great work he has done these days. Let me also thank Senator Zaffini, the opposition colleague who is with us in the Commission. All together we have worked on a text that asks four fundamental things: to define and update protocols and guidelines of home care, that are unitary throughout the national territory; to involve all the actors of the territory, therefore not only the doctors of general medicine and the departments of prevention of ASL, but also the nurses of the family and all the professional figures; to provide the health professionals the appropriate tools to be able to monitor at home the patients, therefore the instruments of telemedicine; finally, to establish at the Ministry of Health a monitoring table of all the protocols that are being used, because there are many clinical studies in progress. Thousands of protocols are being studied worldwide, and only AIFA has so far approved 60 protocols. We therefore call for a summary of these protocols to be made as soon as possible and for a single protocol and guidelines to be drawn up for our local doctors. To date, the people who died of Covid in Italy are 112,374; of these were Annamaria, my friend and teacher of life. Many of these could probably be saved, if we had used more defined household loading protocols. In medicine prevention always remains the most powerful and most important weapon. In the case of Covid, prevention is certainly vaccination prophylaxis. We really hope that April, as Commissioner Figlio said, will be the month of the turning point in the vaccination campaign, but prevention also means preventing complications of the disease and putting in place an early take-up of home care. We are still at war and too many people are still dying on this battlefield. As in all wars, however, the key is to resolve the conflict first, because the greatest victory is to prevent war. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u27	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u28	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, on the agenda... Senator Ciampolillo, you could have taken another microphone, since the senator is also injured. He raised a senator who was injured and has a guardian. It doesn't seem polite or correct to me. [[Applause]] CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). I asked her if I could. He said yes. On the agenda, presented with Mr Martelli, on the strengthening of home care for Covid-19, in order to prevent and reduce the burden on hospital facilities, it was asked, among other things, to evaluate the use of alternative therapies, such as the use of CBD as a remedy for the lethal effects of Covid-19. The use of this active substance is already recognized in Italy, being a prescription and dispensable medicine from the National Health Service, available in pharmacy. Among the properties of CBD there is also that of being a very powerful natural anti-inflammatory, as evidenced by numerous scientific studies mentioned on the agenda. A year ago I invited Minister Hope and some industry researchers to explore the subject. I collected the availability of some young doctors and scholars, having personally contacted a well-known Dutch pharmaceutical company, without unfortunately receiving the right interest from the Italian institutions. Well, the news of the scientific publication of the Medical College of Georgia at the Augusta University in the United States is very recent, which attests that CBD reduces the cytokinic storm triggered by the immune system, so as to avoid, or at least severely mitigate, the most serious damage to lung tissue due to artificial ventilation. All this remembering that the CBD, already positively adopted in the therapy of the pain, contrary to all the other drugs currently used does not have any contra-indication or harmful side effect, therefore being able to be given even to the weakest patients. It would therefore seem that the inadmissibility declared at the sitting, with regard to the second conclusion of the agenda, is due to the desire to avoid a vote on a subject that may be too difficult to deal with, rather than to valid reasons that are not explicit, considering that the commitments requested by the Government concerned precisely the strengthening of home care, with the help of improvement therapies, such as CBD for subjects affected by the virus. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u29	Senator Ciampolillo, despite the call you made, you continued in the attitude I recalled you for, and I therefore express the censure on you by the Presidency. [[Applause. Comments]] Recriminations are not allowed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G1 agenda, tabled by Senators Ciampolillo and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2 (text 2), presented by Senators Romeo, Castellone, Binetti, Errani, Boldrini, Zaffini, Parent and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u30	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00160 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mantovani and other senators, on strengthening the teaching of mathematics and digital education. I call Senator Mantovani to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first motion I signed today before the House, signed by representatives of the majority and senators of various parliamentary groups, which I warmly thank, is intended to innovate the teaching of mathematics and introduce computational and algorithmic thinking into schools, in order to ensure a prosperous future for the next generations. In Italy there is currently a serious delay in the field of mathematical, technical-scientific and computer science training, which hinders the full development of the potential of people and the economic and social growth of the country. The motion under consideration was filed in 2019, accompanied by a conference that took place in the Senate, in the presence of Ministers and with the participation of distinguished experts. The urgency of such action has not diminished in these two years. In 2019, I reported the figures for the European Commission's European Commission's index of digitisation of the economy and society (DESI) two years ago, in which Italy stood at 24th in 28 Member States. In particular, in the human capital indicator, i.e. those with skills in information and communication technologies, Italy was ranked 26th among the 28 countries. The following year, in the DESIGN index of 2020 there was a further deterioration: Italy fell to 25th place out of 28, losing a position in the indicator; in particular, in human capital Italy ranks at 28th place out of 28, i.e. at the last place, losing two positions. The blatant lack of digital knowledge affects both adults and young people. These gaps affect both companies, who risk not being able to seize the opportunities offered by digital, as well as the public administration, who are in danger of being frustrated by any attempt at digital transition due to the lack of professionals with proven scientific, mathematical, computational and computer knowledge. Even at the level of the exercise of citizenship these deficiencies put people at risk of not being able to fully and consciously assert their rights, as they are unable to understand the functioning of the new technologies in which we are immersed daily, such as those that have to do with the protection of their personal data, the mass video surveillance, the recognition of fake news and others. A slice of citizens is no longer able to interact with digital public administration. The awareness of the importance of acquiring a specific scientific and technical training has grown during this year of pandemic, but this is certainly not enough to measure the results that allow us to go back up the slope. In order to plan an exit plan from this very low average level in digital skills, the cause that at the base limits the number of students enrolled in the degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) must be removed. Too many children and above all girls are conditioned by a prejudice: not to be brought for mathematics, an irremediable disability that makes them unable to understand mathematics for life. But math has to be for everyone. (at 10:52 a.m.) (Following MANTOVANI). For these reasons, the Government is asked to make certain commitments, first of all to continue investing in the National Digital School Plan, through the allocation of adequate resources and through the introduction of more effective innovative methods of learning mathematics and computational and algorithmic thinking, especially in primary school, i.e. the age at which girls and children are threatened the prejudice of not being born for mathematics. In addition, innovative and multidisciplinary training courses need to be strengthened in the later stages of education, in which humanistic and scientific thinking penetrate and strengthen each other. A greater connection with reality and the need to measure it will allow students to move towards scientific disciplines and mathematics, understood as a discipline that helps to understand many aspects of everyday life and with a multidisciplinary approach refines and raises awareness of aesthetic perception and encourages young people to face the complexity and the present and future challenges of the constantly evolving labour market. The Government is also committed to connecting this renewed national training strategy with the sectors of work, welfare and the entrepreneurial, cultural and artistic development of our country, so that this innovative approach can represent a flywheel for the overall growth and structure of Italy. Finally, it is requested to guarantee vocational training for teachers, in synergy with the provisions of the National Training Plan for Teachers. I thank the Government and the entire Assembly for their attention to an act that I believe is fundamental to the present and future of our country and our citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u32	I declare the debate open. Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u33	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important schools of thought in the history of humanity takes its name from its founder, Pythagoras, mathematician, scientist, politician and miracle worker who considered error a fault that could be freed only through knowledge, one of the most important levers. I would like to quote, in this regard, the words of Senator Carlo Rubbia, Nobel Prize winner for Physics in 1984, Gorizia's birthday, uttered in a lectio magistralis: We will have the opportunity to finally ask the question: at what price are citizens ready to support a substantial intellectual, technological and cultural role of our country within Europe and the world? Socrates claimed that only those who admit their ignorance can seek the truth. The awareness of not knowing should be the harshest opposition to those who feel that they have no need to learn or to those who remain closed in their own burnea, thinking that the world ends where its sphere of interest or knowledge ends. The pandemic has highlighted many of our gaps, unraveled innumerable certainties, brought to light the gap between what it is and what it should be, especially in what is generally called an exact science, but also, in a practical sense, how much we still have to work to modernise the country in order to face distance teaching or smart working. The motion that we are about to vote clearly highlights the need to confront ourselves with the digital unpreparedness, which is one of the greatest challenges of the Next generation EU to lay the foundations of our future tout court. Mr Rubbia will say again: It should not be forgotten how lucky we are to live in a time when the tools needed to unlock the most disparate secrets of nature come within the reach of our technology (...). But to build you have to know and predict. Hence the essential and universal bond (...) between knowledge and invention (...). A rapid evolution of technology is certainly the most significant feature of the years to come, concludes Rubbia. In the seventies of the last century a Slovenian artist from Trieste, Edward Zajec, who formed in the United States, had begun to seriously reflect on the use of computers in art. Today he is considered the pioneer of computer art in the world. In his work, in fact, art and technology interact in perfect synchrony. Europe did not fully understand, instead it had understood America very well, which offered him in 1980 a teaching in the department of Syracuse University in New York of which Zajec was finally professor emeritus, with digital tools made available by a global giant. At first few had understood what and how many possibilities exist, in fact in Trieste Zajec had to make use of the collaboration of a computer engineer. Later, however, the dialogue between calculation, color and sound became language through which Zajec evolved his own search for truth which is art through the generative and interactive algorithm. For decades, therefore, our country has not wanted or been able to fully grasp the challenges that instead in the world, from the United States to India, found space through the awareness that digital and therefore mathematical formulation would become the global language par excellence, the investment for the future of humanity not only in the scientific or practical field, but also in the artistic one. The search has a single common denominator, which is to ask questions and pursue the end that can only be the categorical imperative of the duty that represents - Kant will say - the need to carry out an action for respect of the moral law. This is the meaning of our vote: to rethink the relationship with what we have not been able to predict, including the pandemic, and the tools we need to avoid falling behind. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u35	Mr President, the Italian situation in the European and international context, from the point of view of training in scientific, technological, engineering and mathematical disciplines, was extremely dramatic before the pandemic. Italy has always been a taillight in training in these disciplines and this means that only a residual percentage of students choose to specialize in these fields. Today, the situation has become much worse because of the current pandemic. Many investments have been made in the structures, equipment of individual schools, connections and school building, but the solutions found unfortunately do not solve the problems of student learning gaps. On the other hand, investment in current expenditure is needed, because learning gaps are not solved by spot action, but structural measures are needed. The investment must be made on the quality of the teaching class and on continuing training in computer and digital technologies that must support and not replace the teaching in presence. The investment must be made to allow each student to be placed in a position to achieve the learning objectives foreseen for his/her age group, through the reduction of the number of students per class and a teaching garrison of permanent afternoon support. These are structural measures which affect current expenditure. International observers have certified that in Italy the students of the fifth year of high school have in the mathematical disciplines the competences of the children of eighth grade. This is the prepandemic situation and it means that the Italian children will have much less chance than those of other European countries to be employed in the strategic sectors for the development of our society. Without substantial investment in current expenditure, we cannot expect the expected effects on learning. During the pandemic the school was unfortunately considered a kind of baby parking. It was thought to keep open only the schools of childhood and the first cycle until the sixth grade, but all schools must remain open. We must now live with the pandemic situation and face it with measures on public transport, tracings and prophylaxis. You have to start living again and overcome the assumption that the school is a parking lot. The Constitution sets out the principles of autonomy and school equality, and some 20 years ago IT degrees were introduced. But, in the face of almost zero control over education and training (also caused by the cutting of the Ministry's employees, especially those in charge of controls), how could we be led to believe that the learning of students could improve? One cannot think of controlling the quality of the training offer of 8,000 autonomous school institutions and 12,000 peer schools with simple self-assessment relationships and with the INVALSI questionnaires. (at 11:03 a.m.) (Follow GRANATO). The instruments made available by the latest reforms are ridiculous, especially that of the good school, which, with the overlap of 400 hours of alternation between school and work, gave the final stroke to the curricular study plans, causing the students to lose 400 hours of teaching. It has been pretended to meet the needs of the labour market, while in reality the demolition of public education has been completed, because an incompetent political class that thinks only of serving lobbyists to ensure self-conservation serves an ignorant people without prospects of social mobility. The quality of public school indicates the state of health of a democratic country, politics and institutions. I think that the quality of our school is the most obvious indicator of the level achieved by this political and ruling class. A bill has recently been approved by the Committee on Culture, Science and Education of the House of Deputies to allow students made so fragile by the reforms of the last 20 years to achieve two degrees simultaneously. Students forced to fill the missing prerequisites in order to be able to attend with profit the degree courses are recognized the possibility of accessing two courses simultaneously: it is an absolute contradiction. In the same way, it is a contradiction to introduce sanatories, instead of proceeding to the ordinary competition already banned and expected by 500,000 aspiring teachers for access to the roles of teaching. In order to be able to teach effectively, you must have serious disciplinary skills, because you cannot teach what you do not know. What is known, however, can be taught and adapted to the best teaching strategies that are necessary thanks to the changing times and the speed of light at which today's world travels. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u36	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, a reflection such as this on the teaching of mathematics might seem to be a mechanism that somehow affects exclusively what to teach and how to teach in the years of compulsory schooling. In fact, we should turn our attention to two other very important parameters, one of which represents the usual evening context of each of us: by now, when we turn on the television in the evening, we want to know the index of the contagions at what point is it, the number of the healed, the number of the infected; we want to know how many people have left us. And based on these numbers, we make projections: we decide what to close, what to open; we decide how to affect the complex world of the market. But we always do it on the basis of numbers. The decision-making processes we assume in the world of economic production, health and quality of our social life are dictated by the numbers. The real problem is: but where do these numbers come from? How were they obtained? On the basis of what principle does this number shift and oscillate between margins? The question of what is behind the number is the most important intellectual challenge for all of us. But, actually, few of us - I don't think I can count myself among the experts in this - know exactly where those numbers come from. The sure thing is that those numbers determine the choices you make. Only in this way can we understand how, in terms of democracy, informed consent, adherence to certain decisions taken, proposed or imposed on us, the scientific reasoning behind the number is imposed on the maturity of the adult today and, in perspective, on the formation of the youngest. Claude Bernard, a name very well known to all those who in medicine dealt with the transition from a perhaps more empirical mentality to a more serious scientific reasoning, basically said that scientific reasoning was born from observation, from the hypothesis that was made on that observation, from the experiment that was created to verify that hypothesis, from the analysis of the results that were obtained from that experiment and from the reasoning on those numbers. It is evident that the reasoning on numbers was possible only in the light of the correctness of the scientific reasoning behind it, so much so that - it is a phrase that resounds a lot in medicine - if you can't say it with numbers, don't say it. The patient is better or worse than what: the parameter of increased or decreased fever? There is the parameter of pain: but how much suffers the most and how much suffers the least? Or is it the parameter of an indicator that comes from the analysis table you requested and that says if the red blood cells are increased or decreased? Actually, all our reasoning revolves around the number. Today, for example, if I say variant to all of us comes to mind the virus, the English variant, the South African one and the Brazilian one. But what are these variants? They are not clinical investigations, they are also a very careful examination done on the DNA of the virus, that is sequences that are measured in one way or another. All our reasoning has this foundation, Pythagoras said it many centuries ago. To insist on the formation of mathematics is to insist on logical formation, on rigour, on precision, on the correctness of the data that come out of the "me" seems to be "me," from "me" according to "me," from opinion and are attached to an objectivity that becomes comparable. This is the wealth that we want to pass on to the new generations through a greater and better teaching of mathematics; more scientific training to decide with greater freedom, in every sense and in all fields. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u37	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u38	Mr President, I too am speaking on this subject, which is very close to my heart. Both during the discussion of the guidelines of the PNRR, and in all the work that followed and that led to a vote last week, one of the elements that emerged was the need for the Italian school to focus on the training of competences in the scientific field, precisely to reduce the gap compared to other countries. It emerged in that forum and emerges every time that we speak with the productive world, but also with the world of institutions: we need more competences in the scientific and mathematical fields. Welcome then to this motion, which lights a beacon on this problem. Indeed, the answer can already come from primary school. We talk about STEM, that is to teach, through laboratories, the possibility of having a thought that ends with a construction, using the technical part and the logical part and stimulating a different ability to think; this is absolutely important. In some schools - it happens also in my primary school, which I attended many years ago - is developed and is exercised with particular interest the game of chess, as sport, by the sports association linked to this school, just to activate those logical processes that help the development of mind and reasoning, but that also bring students and students to the world of more scientific subjects. There are teachers of mathematics who tell me, also in other realities, how the teachers themselves try to understand which are the most brought pupils and to start them at faculties as mathematics and physics, precisely because these faculties are at the center of the interest of the productive world and of the institutions. There is also something that some consider a pseudoscience. For example, there are interesting fields that perhaps deserve at least experimentation; I am talking about neurolinguistic programming, which some call pseudoscience, designed by Bandler and Grinder in the United States of the 1970s. This is a method that improves communication and leads to greater personal development. All that facilitates the understanding of the potential of the individual in my opinion is to be developed. As my colleague, Mrs Mantovani, said earlier, there is a general belief, by most students and people, that they are not brought to mathematics. Most of the time this is a belief based on nothingness. The principle, however, is that, if we believe one thing and keep telling ourselves, we are convinced in a granite way: I am not able to do that. So, a training to think in another way and to see the challenges, maybe even the small ones, like a step to climb every time, reinforces the self-esteem and the conviction that you can do more. This system of thought and education, in my opinion, should find in the school the ideal place, from the primary. Think, in fact, of the joy of children when they manage to achieve a result: they feel like champions. This positive way of thinking can be the first step, even with this experimentation and this way mentioned in the motion. It is a way to get the country back on track in the right direction, towards progress, which is not a habit, but a necessity. In our country, in fact, we need more people graduate in mathematics, graduate in science, graduate in engineering: because the productive world wants it, but also because it is a way to think and plan the future in all senses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u39	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u40	Mr. President, Antonio Gramsci wrote: The old world is dying. The new one's late to appear. And in this chiaroscuro the monsters are born. We have, therefore, faced this health crisis, which has dramatically brought out a condition of marginalization, of individual rights mortified by market logics and is therefore imposing a very profound reflection on us. Against the backdrop of this health crisis, we have to deal with the climate crisis on a daily basis. Both impose a deep reflection on us and, in many parts, the need for a new humanism is felt, to bring man back to the centre. How can this happen? This can happen with awareness, through a transition phase, not only ecological or eco-systemic, as I like to call it, but also through a socio-cultural and bio-anthropological transition. In this epoch of great technological progress, even of technological fury, we must be concerned to remain firm in the control of this rapid progress and, therefore, to keep man at the centre. Awareness in the sense of proceeding in this transition with awareness; which means proceeding with knowledge, ability to observe, speculation and critical thinking. It is, therefore, also the aim of this motion: to promote that field of study that allows man to govern this process of rapid technological progress and not to find himself in subordination, not only because of the inability to govern the technological processes, but also because of the loss of his cognitive and human abilities that would risk placing it at the service of the machine and not at the driving of the machine. Therefore, it is time to rediscover and strengthen the alliance and collaboration between science and humanism. It is necessary to rethink, therefore, in this perspective, the school space and the educational paths so that this alliance and collaboration are not lost, but - indeed - are recovered and strengthened because science needs humanism, because science needs philosophers and art historians. The two disciplines must in fact be interlinked, because it is humanism that completes our government of machine and technological progress. Speaking of humanism, Albert Einstein wrote a letter to Robert Thornton, a young professor who had to prepare his first course in physics and sought support in Einstein to put as much philosophy as possible in his course. It is not by chance that the philosophy of science exists. Einstein wrote: A knowledge of the historical and philosophical background provides precisely that independence from the prejudices of one's own generation from which most scientists are afflicted. This independence determined by philosophical analysis is - in my opinion - the mark of distinction between a simple craftsman or specialist and an authentic seeker of truth. So, starting from this motion, we take humanism by the hand again and together we project ourselves into a future in which we will always have to have our goal clearly defined; to form individuals and seekers of truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u41	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u42	Mr President, the Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u43	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u46	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Mantovani for the motion, which has become virtually unanimous. We're very pleased. I thank the undersecretary Floridia, the whole government and the whole assembly. I'd like to start with this sentence: Mathematics is the future. Guys, get close to this matter, try it, don't be afraid. You will see that it will pay you back, even economically. These are the words of Giovanni Sebastiani, a mathematician and researcher. These words seem more appropriate to me than ever to highlight the increasingly predominant role of science in the lives of all of us, especially from young people. Today we know that the data - as Mrs Mantovani mentioned earlier - are not encouraging at all from this point of view. I refer to those referring, in particular, to our country on the mathematical, technical-scientific and digital competences of human capital. While Italy has achieved good results in the development of 5G since all pioneer bands have been awarded and the first commercial services have been launched, there are significant shortcomings in human capital. The numbers are worrying. They concern the much lower percentage than the European average, especially the population in the age group between sixteen and seventy-four. You think that in Italy only 42%, against a European average of 58%, is in possession of basic digital skills. The percentage for higher digital skills and for the number of specialists and graduates in the field of technology, information and communication is far below the European average. So, unfortunately, Italy has a negative record and this has economic and social consequences that could create huge problems even compared to our loss of competitiveness compared to other European countries (I think about Spain, France, Germany). The main risk for companies is that they are not able to grasp important incentives and opportunities offered by digital, for example in the field of artificial intelligence, inevitably losing competitiveness and productivity compared to other European companies. A growing gap is now emerging between the job demands of companies, increasingly focused on predominant profiles in the technical-scientific and digital sectors, and the professional competence of candidates in these same sectors. All this only aggravates a situation for Italian companies certainly not easy. Moreover, the delay in this field also runs counter to the need to significantly reduce the difficulty of dialogue between citizens and public administration, despite its efforts to adapt digital platforms. In short, in this context the pandemic has imposed a massive use of digital technologies to give continuity to school activities and some productive activities at global level, but at the same time it has highlighted the nerves discovered and therefore the deep deficiencies in these crucial areas. After an initial period of uncertainty, these shortcomings, if not addressed immediately, could lead to a definitive detachment from the point of view of global competitiveness from the other so-called virtuous countries, with disastrous economic and social consequences. As the pandemic has shown, there is increasing scarcity and therefore more demand for people who can read and analyze big data, who are able to apply mathematical models to reality, for example to make predictions. There are companies in Italy that do not find specialized personnel and, in all probability, in the future, medicine, but also psychology and social sciences, will need the integration of hard sciences, because it will be increasingly important to analyze phenomena quantitatively, using the rigour of the mathematical approach. In other words, there is more than ever a serious reflection on the part of all of us so that in the short term we can reverse the course, just starting, in my opinion, from the young people, who are the resource on which it is indispensable to focus, if we really want to restart the country, as President Draghi reminds us every day. The scientific and digital disciplines are the tools that we have had during this health emergency and young people will not be able to help but rediscover the importance of it, because during the pandemic we saw the effects of it in practice. At the same time, it is necessary to move quickly, also to disassemble the myth that mathematics and digital skills are the prerogative of few and are perhaps not suitable for women. Always to use Sebastiani's words in a recent interview, we talk about mathematicians especially when it comes out the genius of the shift, the excellence, the young man who perhaps studied at Oxford, who has four degrees. So, however, a partial message passes: it seems that mathematics is a matter for a few; instead, everyone can get passionate about it and fall in love with it. To encourage young people, therefore, to reduce the present gap, both at university level and at secondary level, between scientific and humanistic social pathways, by adopting active education policies, also to respond adequately to market demands. At the same time and at the same time, we also need to move in another direction in order to abandon the prejudices which we still have today towards women's access to the fields of scientific study. It is necessary to provide a choice and at the same time to demonstrate that there must be no preclusions of any kind - cultural or material - to access these fields of research. Because of our prejudices, a woman faces infinitely greater difficulties than men in conducting extremely demanding research. When he manages to overcome obstacles and master matter, he seems to have more courage, a different genius, an extraordinary talent. Also in this, in language, in the ability to see, to grasp, to read things, perhaps we should have a different, equal look. On the other hand, we have great examples in science, and women are moving forward with great strength and enthusiasm. Our task, therefore, is to better convey the need to invest in these matters so that our daughters can also approach in a different way. In conclusion, Italy Viva and PSI vote strongly in favour of the motion because we support education and we are convinced of the need to look forward to tomorrow, starting with young people. Italy's economic recovery inevitably also passes through a digital transformation that takes shape on technologies and skills that we have the task of developing and enhancing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u49	Drago (FdI). Dear President, dear Senator and Senator colleagues, I am speaking from the end, that is to say, declaring with conviction the favorable vote of Brothers of Italy on the motion under consideration, in order to be able to reflect together and suggest a reflection starting from its own content. The text is of course also interesting with regard to the analysis of the data presented. I confess, however, that in analyzing the subject (the thing) we are talking about, very little attention is paid to how we intend to resolve this issue. At some point in the device we mention the need to review the training of teachers, therefore of learners, but it strikes above all the first commitment to the Government, which refers to the lack of effectiveness of the National Plan for the digital school. Frankly, I remain unhindered by this statement because the PNSD was defined by the famous Law No 107 of 2015, so this majority of Government confirms that that Plan was a flop. In other words, every year we allocate 500 euros to teacher for training, which has been reduced to nothing, and we have had confirmation in this pandemic period with the necessary appeal - thank God, I would stress, because otherwise it could not have been done - to distance teaching. However, noting that many teachers were unprepared for the implementation of this teaching methodology shows that the measure is inadequate. Perhaps, then, the Ministry should question the fact that it would be necessary to take charge of the issue of the continuing training of teachers, perhaps assigning the 500 euros to revise the ridiculous compensation of each teacher. Let us now move on to the way in which we can solve the problem, or to the way in which it is resolved. I would suggest three decisive approaches: one concerning the training of teachers, the other concerning the training of pupils and therefore curricula; the third concerning the relationship between the structure of mathematical thought and the structure of action and language. Someone has already talked about the correlation between language and mathematics; the Italian school from this point of view is completely backward. There is always a line of demarcation between humanistic formation and mathematical formation, but it is enough to think of what are considered the dead languages, Latin and Greek, to note that syntactic structure clearly requires a logic. As far as the training of teachers is concerned, do you know who can, for example, access the teaching of mathematics for the first grade secondary school, i.e. middle school? Those who have a degree in mathematics, of course, in physics, natural sciences, chemistry, astronomy, biological sciences, geological sciences, tropical and subtropical agricultural sciences, nautical disciplines and environmental sciences. On the other hand, who can access the teaching in high school, that is, in the second grade secondary school? In addition to graduates in mathematics in the first place, those who have a degree in astronomy, nautical disciplines, physics, engineering, information sciences and statistical sciences can do so. I am now reading an article in the 2009 "Corriere della Sera" entitled "Meritocracy": how is the issue analysed? What is suggested? It is said that the consequence of the extreme diversification of the training path of the future teacher, in the absence of a strong curriculum cohesion, does not guarantee uniform outcomes on the learning processes of the students. In essence, it is important in the university education of the teacher of mathematics, as well as in other disciplines, the internship, that is, the transmission of one's own knowledge with the didactic activity and therefore induce to know how to do. In realizing this, however, one cannot ignore the evolution of the child's thinking. We have in childhood the operative-concrete thought; in the primary school it is more an operative-formal thought, and then arrive, from the secondary onwards, to the hypothetical-deductive thought, which is probably the logical one, the one that then leads to scientific thought. The Italian school formally says to put the pupil at the center, as an actor of learning, and speaks of non-passive learning, but in fact learning is still based on a dual system between teacher (who precisely teaches) and pupil (who learns); you understand well how all this is questionable. In formation, it is absolutely necessary to take into account what is constructivism and the need to bring the pupil to build his own knowledge. Children of childhood learn from the game, which has a very important educational function. Apart from the fact that the Italian school absolutely does not pay attention to the age group of learning of the school of childhood, which is not compulsory school, but we ask at least to make compulsory the last year of the school of childhood. It is a very important and preparatory year for entry to primary school. Instead, today we see the entrance of five-year-olds to the first year of primary school, blowing them a learning phase, which is precisely the one that develops the functions of space-time organization and the concepts of before and after, of cause and effect. It is therefore necessary to implement, for example, the last year of childhood school, for entry into primary school. We have said that in primary school a formal operational thought develops and it is necessary to build it, that is, to make it such always through the construction by the pupil. The pupil, according to constructivism, does not learn objective reality. Reality becomes objective insofar as he builds it within himself. Having said that, as far as the relationship between language and mathematics is concerned, in conclusion, I want to give a very simple example. In solving a problem, if the pupil does not have the capacity and therefore an adequate basic knowledge for the interpretation of the text, he will never be able to make a decoding of the data that is given. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. The pupil, therefore, cannot make a distinction between the data in his possession and those he will have to find. Having already made the explanation of vote in advance, I conclude by hoping that the Ministry will pay attention, with regard to the learning of mathematics, to the issue of specific learning disorders. Many of the causes of bad success in school are related to what we call disorders, but they are actually different learning styles. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u52	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very special day, because we have all tried to work together on the text of a motion and it is clear - as is very clear at this interesting stage of government - that even listening to today's speeches, our views on this issue are still different and the priorities remain different. However, we have tried to compose a point of view, starting also from some data, which are always questionable and interpretable. For example, I am wary of our gaze towards the rest of the world, as if there were all the good and from us there was all the evil: I think it is not so and I am lucky to attend a parliamentary assembly with 47 countries, where everyone takes exactly the same view, addressed to his own country. But let us look at these issues as a stimulus. Each of us therefore points out the need not only to increase teaching: we are not making it a question of the number of hours or quantities, but of the model and method of teaching this fundamental subject. I believe that some of these issues have emerged very strongly from today's debate. Given that today is a day of quotes, in explaining why we voted in favour of this text, I would also like to start with a quotation. I don't usually read, but I'd like to read this: "Mathematics was my apprenticeship to revolution, because it taught me to be wary of absolute truths and indisputable authorities. Democracy and mathematics, from a political point of view, resemble each other: just as all creative processes cannot bear not to change. It is the quotation of a beautiful libretto by Chiara Valerio, "Mathematics is political," which I suggest to everyone to read, which represents my point of view and our point of view with respect to today's motion. In fact, mathematics is far from the teaching of certainty; it is the teaching of uncertainty as one of the foundations of the world and the need to understand uncertainty, to live in uncertainty, to understand the sense of probability and to understand the mechanisms of data interpretation. Think about how important it is in a pandemic like this: when we are bombarded with numbers and percentages, if we are not conceptually able to understand them, think about what distorting dynamics we can learn. As my colleague, Mr Montevecchi, has also said, it is also essential to be able to dominate the techne rather than let it dominate it. This is a great concern of the best philosophers of the twentieth century in Europe, who had perceived in unsuspecting times (I think of the hermeneutic thread, Heidegger and Gadamer) that the techne would prevail and crush man. Today we are inside that kind of paradigm and we have to choose whether we want to give back to future generations the cognitive tools, of knowledge, to understand what happens on them, around them, within them, or if we give up this battle, for what happens within these instruments and within the screens that are ahead, for example within the mechanisms of social media. My first act in this House was to file the proposal for a cognitive survey of Cambridge Analytica, which then never began; well, what happened in that story is a fact that concerns us, democracy and how certain instruments probably alter our perception of the world, deciding what to make prevail, for example for economic reasons; a perception that does not consider the mechanisms of algorithms that lie behind it and stops at the surface thinks that what is seeing is something spontaneous, so we would say true, real, assuming that we do not know what is real and real. I prefer to use the term "spontaneous", i.e. not the result of a calculation and a computation that has purpose, that wants for example to keep people hooked, to make some content prevail over others, to produce numerical results (especially earnings for some), but with distorting and destructive elements of the structure of society. Another element that seems to me to emerge very clearly from this debate and that we must affirm in this House, giving it the value it has, is that there is no contrast between humanism and mathematics and we, in the world, are the ones who can say it more than anyone else. The word "Renaissance" is used so much. What was the Renaissance? It was precisely the intersection of these two fundamental knowledges of man. We could cite many figures, but I think we probably need the largest or one of the greatest in our history, Leonardo da Vinci, to understand what is the point of balance between mathematics and humanism. I am talking about one of the greatest painters, architects, sculptors, poets and philosophers of the history of humanity, but certainly a great mathematician, a great scientist and a great scholar of the harmony of numbers in nature, of this research and discovery of a balance that, according to many, speaks the language of numbers and mathematics. The balance between man and nature is contained in that wonderful work, of which we discussed in 7th Commission also for its protection, which represents the man of the Renaissance, in which the golden proportions are found. I am referring, therefore, to man who becomes the center of the world, not in the sense of his domination over it, but in a relationship of harmony, because he is in the world and is part of the world and of nature. This would also lead us to the theme of the environment, the ecological transition and the recovery of this harmony that we find written in the great book of nature, as Leonardo said. All these questions make us say that probably all of us - and I find myself there - to whom at some point Antonello Venditti's verse will never be my job "mathematics" has played as they have met teachers who have not been able to tell them what I tried to summarize in these few words, that is the charm, the fantasy, the passion and the poetry contained in that wonderful language that manages to write infinity and uncertainty and tell the kids that everything can be composed and broken down. This is what we want to try to build with today's motion. I would like to say to my colleague that we do not give a negative opinion on the past, but let us say - given to the hand and being able to interpret them, because that is what we are talking about - that we must do more and better and we must also work on the training of teachers in itinere, for example, of teachers. This is a fixation of my political group, because we are convinced that the good teachers are extraordinary professionals, that they must definitely be selected in order to be such, but that then they must continue, throughout their lives, to learn, because their ability to learn passes from their ability to learn. We all know that the best teachers we have had - there are so many in the Italian school - are those who, by their choice - very often, unfortunately, for them free and voluntary choice - have continued to seek stimuli, innovations and new ways of teaching. We increasingly want our education system to accompany and give economical tools to these professionals who are fundamental for the preservation and development of our country, to continue to update their skills throughout their professional life. All these are the objectives - and there are so many - of this motion. I believe that with the coup d' gong that we settle today, approving in a unified way - this is very important - this motion, which I thank Senator Mantovani for having proposed and presented, we affirm that it is time to close this time when the great Country of culture, art, Humanism and the Risorgimento can be thought of as the one in which, for this reason, mathematics is a minor matter. Instead, it is a fundamental subject and we need a school that teaches more mathematics and more philosophy and above all that it knows how to do it by making children fall in love with these subjects. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u55	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I believe that Senator Rampi's speech in his explanation of vote has made us understand better that it is not strange that today the Senate is debating the question of teaching mathematics and training in digital skills. Someone may have thought that at such a complicated and difficult time for the country, it was frankly a bit out in the air. Personally, I believe that the fact that this morning we are discussing such an important issue makes us understand what we are in a moment of passage that concerns human civilization and also the transition of our country. We are, probably, in a gorgo that will produce and is causing great upheavals. Some people are talking about the fourth industrial revolution, a definition that I personally do not love, but we are certainly going through a time of great changes from the point of view of industrial strategies, knowledge and digital innovation. This pandemic has meant that even our country, with all the delays that Senator Mantovani explained to us explaining her motion, had to accelerate from this point of view. It is therefore a moment of passage and when, with reference to the need for ecological transition, climate change and the idea of having to change the model of production and consumption, there is - again here - a sort of sacredness and reliance on techne, technology. Beware that there is no such thing, nor has there ever been a neutral technology. Today more than ever, a debate such as the one we are doing, and above all, the commitments that are made by this motion, are essential. We must ensure, in order to allow full citizenship to be acquired, that our training system allows boys and girls to have the knowledge and skills necessary to choose, know and understand that behind every technology there are precise choices, that are not neutral, but that they are economic in nature and are also very sensitive from the point of view of democracy. Today it is necessary to confront all this. Our training system has structural delays, because our school has always had a humanistic approach based, unfortunately, almost always on the choice - I tell colleagues - of the separation between disciplines, with an approach that has never been interdisciplinary. This has meant that the humanistic footprint, which is also very important, as it constitutes the identity and excellence of our training system (I have graduated in philosophy), has always been separated from culture and scientific subjects. This was certainly because of a problem of training teachers in scientific subjects, but also because of the school model itself. It has not been understood that the key is another, as there is a deep inter-disciplinary and approach link, for example, between mathematics and philosophy. Although this heritage has been cultivated by some thinkers throughout our history, the school has always been marked by this separation. It is said that we do not have a scientific tradition, but in reality the history of Italy is made of great excellences in this area, despite the beheading, with racial laws, of the faculties of physics and mathematics in all our universities (decapitation that we then had to recover with a certain effort). However, a very lacking element lies in the ability of the education to ensure that the children, after high school, are oriented towards the scientific faculties. There is also a gender gap, as for so long the girls have been pushed not to enroll in scientific faculties. With reference to the topics of teaching mathematics, scientific skills and the scientific approach, we are faced with a series of structural problems in our country. Today why is it necessary to make this qualitative leap? Because I believe that even more we must ensure that the school forms the citizens and gives the tools and knowledge not only to be able to face today's world and enter the world of work (which is absolutely fundamental), but also to have the necessary elements to be full citizens and to be able to choose in a complex society like this. I come back to the question of the moment of passage and of transition so complicated. Compared to the great challenges we face, which, as far as I am concerned, are to profoundly change the model of development (otherwise, the history of human civilization will have some difficulty in surviving), today we must make sure that there is a strong integration in our entire educational system between the scientific subjects - mathematics, in particular - and the humanistic ones. That's what we need. Above all, we need to understand and understand science. The latter, in fact, as well as the techne, is not neutral. All the more reason why we need scientific preparation, training and culture and the school is the place par excellence that must give it. Therefore, not only do we have to deal with delays in digital competence, but we need to put in place the possibility of a real and strong qualitative leap, so that we can avoid keeping matters separate. It is because of an absolutely wrong approach that delays often occur. Interdisciplinarity and the ability to keep our humanistic culture together are very important, and at the same time strongly foster knowledge and above all the scientific approach: this will make it possible to make a leap in quality, in this moment of passage, and especially that in the school people are formed capable of being full and critical citizens, able to choose. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u58	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I have mentioned a few words: rule, method, rationality, calculation, objectivity, perseverance and logic; even a word that perhaps sums them all up: realism. These are the qualities on which the teaching of mathematics leverages and feeds people and, consequently, in societies. I think it's rather negligent quality and proscribed in the age in which we live, overwhelmed by elements of easier use for everyone: improvisation, simplification, prejudice, emotion and superficiality. I believe that one of the evils of our time is precisely this: not being able to see reality for what it is; not having the tools to analyze data and understand situations; therefore, not being in a position to solve problems. We have seen this - it is good to say - also in many statements of this tragic pandemic phase expressed by the ruling class and personality evidently uncomfortable with calculation, refractory to the concept of exponential increase and in difficulty in the face of the need to make equations by combining data. All this has costs, which in this tragic phase we are going through count in terms of human lives. Mathematical and digital skills are needed at this time, but not only: digital skills are daughters and the result of this epoch. It was said before, and it is very true: the technique is never neutral and in every epoch it has shaped the mind of the individual person and, consequently, the social dynamics. But never before today has a technological revolution like the digital one, in such a short time and on such a vast scale (the phenomenon is global), achieved and led to such profound changes, both in individual citizens and in individual societies. This is why governing the digital revolution is the prerequisite for giving our country a future. And, to govern the digital transition and the age in which we live, technological competence and digital education are not enough, because numbers are important, but they are not everything, they are necessary, but they are not enough, and they must be accompanied to the humanistic culture. The data, to be interpreted, must not only know them and be able to read them, but also be able to insert them into a broad and global logic. The INVALSI tests mentioned in the motion we are discussing today, which seriously show shortcomings in terms of the mathematical culture of our young students, are accompanied by other INVALSI tests that are not mentioned, because this was not the object of the motion, but that denounce an equally serious deficiency of our students in terms of knowledge of their own language (Italian) and history. Not knowing history, not to make easy rhetoric, means not knowing oneself, therefore not being in the conditions to face the present and to build the future, nor to fill that great and gigantic void that characterizes our epoch, the emptiness of identity, nor to reflower and grow those roots cut off of men, women, communities, societies and nations (another characteristic element of our epoch). It is clear that the strengthening of the study of mathematics must be accompanied by the strengthening and integration of the study of philosophy and history. Moreover, it is a typical anomaly of our century to have split scientific knowledge from humanistic knowledge. It has never been so; for millennia the culture has been one, a single culture from Aristotle to Leonardo, up to Goethe; it has been one and, within that one culture, the scientific one has contempered the humanistic culture and both the hemispheres of this one globe of knowledge have made man strong and free, because without culture you have no vision and perception of reality and, without the vision and perception of reality, you build nothing, but you survive and let us live. We all receive, in the inbox here in the Senate (I imagine that happens also in the Chamber), a magazine in my opinion valuable, which is called "Civility of machines" (it is a quarterly published by the Leonardo Foundation (I say it as a simple reader). It seems to me that that magazine has as its objective to nourish the return to the uniqueness of knowledge, which is objectively meritorious. It struck me, in its banality, a statement in a recent editorial of the magazine in question, in which we censor the fact that many intellectuals and many learned men, of obvious and broad humanistic culture, are used to say - and I put myself among them, as a son of a humanistic culture, certainly not as a great intellectual - that I do not understand anything about mathematics. It is a statement that denounces a problem; it is a great negligence to entrench behind a statement of this kind, which is superficial and creates and strengthens the problem of which I have spoken before, because, without the qualities stated at the beginning of my intervention (without the rule, method, rationality, calculation, objectivity, perseverance and logic), the ability to penetrate the world is reduced; without these qualities, culture will always be amputated. For these reasons, my Group, Mr Forza Italia, will vote in favour of this motion. [[Applause.]] 12:08 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u61	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have ten minutes, but perhaps it will take less time to motivate the convincingly favourable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group on the motion under discussion, which intends to commit the Government to strengthening the teaching and knowledge of mathematics and science in various areas. Colleagues, this strengthening is necessary and indispensable for our young people, for our businesses and for our citizens, to be prepared and competitive, as well as active citizens in a society in which the technical, scientific and digital approach is - and will be - increasingly indispensable, to be prepared, to meet important challenges and autonomous in the way of managing our everyday life as well. We have now understood, said and, perhaps, we are now repeating it almost to the point of exhaustion. What we may not have said enough and which I believe should be said, however, is that we have a great responsibility: that of not interrupting the process of evolution, cultural and scientific at the basis of which, from the origin of the times, mathematics lies. Pythagoras teaches us that, almost three thousand years ago, he laid the foundations of modern scientific thought and philosophy, understood as a love for wisdom that goes hand in hand with mathematics, a term which, not by chance, derived from máthema, science, which in turn derives from the verb manthánein, learning. Hence the mathematikói, i.e. the prone to know. It was he, Pythagoras, who discovered the mathematical relationships that are the basis of music, art and proportions that dictated - and still dictate - the creation of great architectural works such as the Greek temples or the spectacular frescoes of Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel, which envy us all the world. The latter is a fresco that owes its beauty to the mathematical perfection with which it was studied and realized. A detailed study would in fact have shown that the true secret of the portentous harmony between the parts, which thus makes balanced and balanced the frescoes of the Sistine Chapel, is actually the systematic and desired use of the so-called golden section. We can define the latter as that miracle of proportions among the parts inherent in nature itself, which mathematical studies have allowed to discover and therefore to apply to the creations of man, with results of a unique magnificence. What about Leonardo and his genius? From his writings, from his experiments, from his works and from his paintings it is evident how much he nourished for numbers and calculation a particular interest, believing that behind them there was the possibility of creating new roads, still unknown, able to bring man's knowledge towards a wider depth. Returning to Pythagoras, let us not forget the discovery of the musical scale, also based on mathematical proportions and, in turn, the basis of the compositions of musicians of all time. The links between musical language and mathematical principles are indissoluble. For this reason, in man's history, mathematics and music are often indissolubly united. Not only that: in Dante's year we can not fail to remember how much the work that made him famous is linked to numerals and mathematical laws in its proportions. The three songs, formed by thirty-three songs with verses of three verses, the so-called thirds, are just an example of how mathematics conducted and ordained its literary work. We could make many other examples, demonstrating how much mathematics is linked to every aspect of life, art, everyday life and our activities, even sports, in which the rules and playgrounds, whether large or small, are realized and studied according to precise proportions and mathematical laws. Last night, dear colleagues, I went to look at the beautiful and current short film that Disney conceived in 1959, in which the cute character of Donald Duck makes a journey through the world of "mathematics," in which he enters with the rifle, but which, thanks to the spirit of adventure that accompanies him, discovers how wonderful and surprising it is. He concludes his journey by trying to open with curiosity a series of doors, those of knowledge and the possibilities that the future can offer. Happy, Donald, he concludes that only math has the keys to open them. Forgive me for this romantic vision of mathematics, but I am firmly convinced that we must stop saying and tell ourselves that we are not brought to mathematics, apologizing with this phrase our lazyness in applying ourselves to a subject that, as we have seen, is indispensable and at the basis of all our knowledge, of every object that we use in everyday life and every space, such as that of this House, studied and organized according to precise geometric and mathematical proportions. For these reasons, we have the responsibility to continue to cultivate and enhance the mathematical and scientific knowledge that from the beginning of humanity lies at the basis of everything and has been handed down to us by scholars and artists of all time and that cannot be untied by other knowledge. The methods used in mathematics may be different from those used in the past. Today our tool is digital and becomes increasingly indispensable to become aware of it and acquire the knowledge necessary for its proper use. For this reason, science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), that is science, technology, engineering and mathematics, even better the STEAM high schools, which also add art, to train our young people, come well. There is a need for adequate training, even better if compulsory, for teachers. I would like to make a small cut, to say that I am very proud of the fact that a STEAM high school will be inaugurated in my hometown in the next school year. I am very proud of that and I really hope that some members of the Ministry of Education can be present. Finally, I would like to reiterate and confirm the strongly favourable vote on the motion in question by the Lega-Salvini Premier Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u64	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, kind senators and senators and honourable representative of the Government, I would like to begin by thanking Senator Mantovani, who has been dealing for years with the content contained in the act under discussion today, and all the signatories of the motion, which is useful for promoting the innovation of the teaching of mathematics, computational and algorithmic thinking and digital skills in schools. The OECD's Skills Outlook Scoreboard shows, unfortunately, that the Italian population does not have the basic skills to thrive in a digital world both in society and in the workplace. In order to access the new professions and develop the digital economy, even more so today, as the digital transition has become a pillar of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), advanced skills in information and communication technologies are needed. European companies find it difficult to recruit experienced personnel in these areas because of a serious shortage of these figures. Italy is very late. As far as people with a degree in computer science are concerned, our country is well below the EU average, with only one percent of the total number of graduates, compared to 3.5 in the European Union. There is also an important difference with Europe with regard to the role of women: in 2020 only 1.2% of workers specialized in computer science, compared with 1.6 of the European average; between the ages of twenty and twenty-nine in Italy graduated in STEM disciplines a 12.5% of women, compared with 18.4% of men. In summary, the European average reported 14.3% of women graduate STEM, compared with 26.3% of men. According to the OECD, as far as teachers are concerned, the Italian ones - certainly not because of them, but because of a lack of effective programming - are less prepared than European colleagues and use the new technologies much less than other workers with tertiary education. All this has its origin in the shortcomings of the current teaching of mathematics in our schools, a theme often underestimated in recent years and which this motion has the merit of putting at the heart of the political and institutional debate. The point from which to start is the importance of mathematical literacy, that is the ability of an individual to reason mathematically and to formulate and use the reasoning and language of mathematics to solve problems of a variety of contexts of the real world. Quoting in fact Professor Lorella Carimali, author of the book "The equation of freedom," mathematics is the tool to intuit, imagine, design, deduce, control, verify, measure and quantify facts and phenomena of reality. It helps people to know the role that such discipline plays in the world and to formulate well-founded judgments and decisions that are necessary for the new citizens of the 21st century. I will briefly develop three more concepts: mathematics is creativity, mathematics is for everyone, mathematics is freedom. Mathematics is creativity, it is a matter of imagination and curiosity, the one that leads to seeing beyond the common vision of things. Mathematicians are curious and creative. Mathematical creativity is the same as the artist in front of the white canvas. In fact, mathematicians imagined black holes long before astronomers found traces of them. The Higgs boson was also mathematically theorized in 1964 and its physical demonstration took place in 2012, in Atlas and CMS experiments conducted with the LHC accelerator. In 2013 Peter Higgs and François Englert were awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics for Discovery, which was actually 1964, forty-nine years earlier: it was simply a mathematical discovery. [[Applause]] Math is for all of us. It, however, is linked to a very strong prejudice, that is for the chosen few and that to understand it you need to be endowed with a quid from birth. It is not really true: there are no people denied in mathematics; there is only one prejudice that is continually handed down in schools and, sometimes, in families. This is a monstrous damage we do to our girls and our children. Mathematics - as I said - is creativity and an incentive to improve our ability to learn. We therefore need these attitudes in our boys and girls to recover from the abyss we have fallen into. A quarter of Italians abandon the study of mathematics and the percentage of functional illiterates is the highest in Europe. Therefore, we must work to ensure that mathematics is perceived as for everyone and not just for an elite, removing the prejudices that still instill in our children and children. With this new approach mathematical competence can become a competence of citizenship, fundamental for the personal and professional realization of the individual. Mathematics is finally freedom, which broadens the gaze to the infinite and universe. Mathematicians are able to transfer the rigor of their scientific reasoning into everyday life. A true mathematician is always ready to verify every fact and every information, is free from instincts, is able to overcome prejudices and taboos. Colleagues and colleagues, this motion contains all the elements I have mentioned. It provides for the allocation, within the framework of the National Plan for Digital School, of adequate resources and the introduction of more effective innovative methodologies for teaching and learning these subjects, and subsequently STEAM disciplines and digital education. It also provides for the strengthening of innovative training courses at all levels, for the orientation of students towards scientific disciplines, including computational, algorithmic and mathematical thinking. Among the commitments I think it is important to underline what it plans to connect these renewed national training strategy with the sectors of work, welfare and entrepreneurial, cultural and artistic development of our country, so that this innovative approach can represent a flywheel for the overall and structural growth of Italy. In conclusion, senators and senators, I would like to mention the philosopher and mathematician Bertrand Russell, who supported how mathematics, seen in the right light, possesses not only truth but also supreme beauty: an austere beauty, like that of sculpture. Here, I hope that today this act represents a foundation stone from which to shape this sculpture, thanks to the commitment of the Government. For all this, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I declare the vote in favour of the motion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u65	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 160 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mantovani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, I suspend the session until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.26 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u66	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Environmental Transition and the Minister for Economic Development will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Gallone has the right to explain the question 3-02401 on the extension and simplification of the bonus to 110% for the energy redevelopment of buildings, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u67	Minister Cingolani, you will surely share with us that the 110% ecobonus is a genius measure, that could become the most important flywheel for the re-start of the country and also the essential lever to realize the best model of urban regeneration, configuring itself moreover as a substantial instrument of the ecological transition, helping at the same time to restart the economy and the work in a virtuous way. In order to prevent such a special initiative from becoming less than expected in practice and to avoid making full use of the investments that have also been allocated in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), it is necessary to extend, extend and, above all, simplify its application, as I believe it is Parliament's unanimous will. Minister, the construction market is worth EUR 180 billion, three quarters of which are generated by building renovation. Incentivised work is worth 16% of the total, i.e. about EUR 29 billion. For this year, it is expected that only ecobonus will be able to support works of around EUR 2.5 billion. For this reason, today we ask you to consider the possibility of allowing as many users as possible the opportunity to access the bonus, overcoming some bureaucratic passages, such as that of the double conformity of those buildings that have internal Venial discrepancies - therefore not in the external outline and nor in serious situations - between the building titles of today and those dating back to the construction, which in the end are only children of history; considering valid the acquittals that show the extremes of the building title and the date of execution of the work; widening the margin of tolerance to regularize the discrepancies or not previewing the declaration, for which the only communication of beginning works in free construction system is sufficient, in order not to stop the possibility of intervening on condominium. Many suggestions for simplification come from technicians. For the same reason, i.e. in order to optimise the use of ecobonus to 110%, using an entire chapter of expenditure provided for in the PNRR, we would like to ask you to evaluate the extension of the superbonus to buildings considered instrumental to the business activity, such as hotels, farmhouses, mountain huts and mountain huts. Finally, Minister, always in accordance with the PNRR lines, we ask you to consider the possibility of simplifying all energy efficiency building operations under a single rate of 75%, providing for the duration of the deduction in five years, in addition to the so-called invoice discount and the transfer of credit. Thank you so much for your attention and availability. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u68	The Minister for the Environmental Transition, Professor Cingolani, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u69	Mr President, the questions asked by the honourable Members bring to the attention a number of important issues which we are working on at the moment. I would like to point out, in an entirely informal way, that I am fully aligned on the importance of getting to the bottom of these issues, not least because I believe that ecobonus in particular is an important mission within the framework of the PNRR, which we are currently defining. This reflection is therefore really necessary in order to make it a very effective measure. With regard to the first question on the simplification of double compliance procedures - as you know - on the basis of Article 49 of the single building text (Decree of the President of the Republic No 380 of 2001), today, in the event of discrepancies, access to the superbonus can only be requested to 110% after regularisation by establishing compliance under Article 36 of the single text, or by restoring the legitimate situation by demolition or other measures; otherwise, a procedure for taxing abuse (where applicable) must be carried out. Without prejudice to the fact that, for obvious reasons, these decisions will have to be taken in agreement with the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, I note that an appropriate balance will have to be struck between a necessary simplification of the procedures for accessing the superbonus and of course the fight against the phenomenon of abuse, which must remain a directive on which we all agree. Of course. Therefore, for this first point, I undertake to speak to the ministries concerned as soon as possible and to give you the most appropriate response possible. With regard to the second question on the extension of the superbonus, I also undertake to start a reflection with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which in this case is more directly concerned. I would like to point out - just for the sake of completeness, as we started to reflect yesterday - that the measure in question was introduced with the main aim of promoting deep energy and seismic redevelopment of residential buildings, which represent an area on which to concentrate efforts also in the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan at 2030, the long term strategy and the renovation wave. The extension of the beneficiaries' audience also to business buildings could be more complex to reconcile with the objective of concentrating public resources where they can produce more results. We'll work on this. I now commit myself to opening this debate with the MEF and I will be able to tell you as quickly as possible. Finally, with regard to the possibility of reforming the tax deductions related to the construction operations, in view of the strategic nature of the construction sector, the same draft of the PNRR has given particular importance to the renovation of residential buildings, providing for the extension of the superbonus for the condominiums former Institute Autonomous People's Houses (IACP) to 31 December 2022 and 30 June 2023. These are, therefore, quite important extensions. Up to such dates the superbonus could operate together with the usual tax deductions dedicated to the sector (home bonus, ecobonus, sysmabonus, bonus facades), but to date limited to 31 December 2021. For the next period it could be considered a coordinated review of the tax deductions system that is currently in existence, with an integrated approach that would allow to optimize the time and costs of the interventions. The revision of the regulatory framework could take account of budgetary constraints and provide for all these profiles together, e.g. by assessing different rates of deduction according to the overall performance achieved by each building. I conclude by saying that the system of building deductions could also continue to be accompanied by instruments of proven effectiveness, such as those of the sale of credit and the invoice discount with appropriate procedures also for small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector. In conclusion, I undertake to open this debate immediately and I will let you know as soon as possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Gallone has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u70	Minister, thank you very much for your openness, for your availability and for sharing the issues with regard to issues that have now become of general sensitivity. Today she leads a Ministry, that of ecological transition, really strategic to help achieve a general vision of the country that combines respect for the environment with the overall well-being of citizens (social, personal and economic). Today, saving energy and achieving the efficiency of the beaten force will be decisive for the recovery of the country, for fulfilling the European directives and for finally, as I said, the sensitivity has changed. However, it is necessary that the Government and Parliament all, which assists its action, be at the side of citizens and businesses, which must be able to carry out the necessary interventions in a simple and effective way. I mean, to do well, we all have to play for the same team, which is Italy. We are at your side, Minister, to support you in doing well. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u71	Senator Faraone has the right to explain the question 3-02402 on the development of a programme for the reopening of business activities, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u72	Minister, given that, of course, the health emergency is a priority for us compared to all the others and it could not be otherwise, after yesterday's data (627 deaths, which brings the number of deaths in Italy from the explosion of the pandemic to more than 110,000), the request for comparison that we address derives from the experience of a country that, due to its lack of programming, has naturally had negative consequences in the management of the pandemic. The request that we make to you and that of course we wish you to accept is that you imagine from now on to organize the departures in the country. We have more certainties than in the past, even compared to the start of the past summer season, because then there were no vaccines and those reopenings even a little 'unjustified have generated a new wave. Thanks to the data that General Son has given us - which we trust and to which we give a great hug, as well as to all men in uniform, the Forces of order, the military, but also the white shirts, the men of Civil Protection and the volunteers, who are doing their job very well - so soon we will reach 500,000 vaccinated a day, this time we are in a position to know that basically in the coming weeks at least the categories most at risk will all be vaccinated. Compared to this, if instead of waiting for 20 or 30 April before imagining a restart, we used the month of April to schedule the reopenings already with a precise calendar for restaurants, schools, cinemas, theaters and we already communicated today to the interested ones what are the reference dates for the restart, I believe that we would do a good service for those who today live an economic condition of great difficulty and surely we would be in a position to do so without risking new waves, precisely thanks to a vaccination campaign that we believe will be effective in the coming weeks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u73	The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u74	Senator Pharaoh, I will reply to you by deviating from my written text and, therefore, I will speak with my arms and perhaps say something not exactly politically correct. I believe that, with regard to this absolutely shared requirement, we must support the principle of security - as you called for in the opening of your speech. This principle of health security is also evolving thanks to the deployment of the vaccination campaign. Unfortunately, as everyone can see, the original projects have not been met on time. We are not here to discuss responsibilities, even put back - as it were - quality and stop and go with regard to some vaccines currently being used. The requirement for a reasonable time projection of the deployment of vaccination policy is the prerequisite for giving certainty; otherwise the risk is to give, on the contrary, uncertainty. We have already experienced this on the occasion of the reopening of the ski resorts. Of course, all my fellow senators will remember that case in which the reverse somehow forced the operators to bear even further and higher damages than those resulting from a lack of openness. The will of the Government, already in these days, is to take seriously that commitment written in the decree-law about the possibility of having early reopenings in the event that the epidemiological data, obviously certified by the technical-scientific committee, allow it. We are therefore doing this type of evaluation, which must be diversified between sectors and operators because - as demonstrated by the agreement recently concluded between employers and trade unions at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy - the vaccination campaign is destined to see the involvement of enterprises and there are also areas which need to be given some certainty of the time horizon. I refer, on all, to the trade fair sector, which must be given certainty in order to carry out the events, given the risk that international competition will take away also the know-how in order to realize them in the future. As far as tourism is concerned, we are proceeding - and I believe that Minister Garavaglia will shortly come forward with a proposal - to introduce the so-called vaccine passport so that - as other countries have done in competition with Italy - our country can also be attractive for tourism this summer, for example from the United States. At the moment, Greece and Spain are advertising in the United States to attract tourists, something that Italy cannot do, but that it will be able to do with this type of intervention. Moreover - let's face it - within some craft categories (I am thinking of hairdressers) the prohibition of the public and official exercise of activities, although under protocol, is encouraging forms of domestic abuse. I say this publicly in this House because no one has the courage to do so. [[Applause]] Therefore, starting from facts and principles of health security, there is all the will and intention to give certainty and not to create further uncertainties, as perhaps happened in the recent past. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u75	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u76	Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply. What I would like to do is try to offer, compared to the past, a slightly different recipe. You, Minister, mentioned the theme of the winter season, which was planned and then missed. Compared to that phase I verify an objective novelty that is represented by the plan vaccines. I refer exactly to the data provided by General Son, who said that soon 500,000 vaccinations will begin every day. Therefore, with simple mathematical calculations it is easy to estimate that risk categories will all be safe within the summer. Considering that already last summer there has been a smaller number of contagions and deaths, if we can hook up the summer season to vaccination regimen for all, we can already now give more safety and certainty to Italians and those who want to go on vacation. Minister, I think we share the same view: one million more unemployed people, without the layoffs being released, and the presence of 300,000 companies that are at risk of total closure is a subject that must be of great interest to us and lead us to plan as of now. The mistake made in the past was precisely not to plan what was thought would happen later and that it would be useful to organize in time. I remember that, when we learned that vaccines would come, we did not organize the places of production and administration. Now we know that next summer will be fortunately quieter than the previous one. Therefore, if we plan and communicate already now the dates, step by step, at the same time as the vaccination campaign, we can give certainties, even psychological ones, to those who have so far been concerned about the prospects. The invitation I make to the government - and we, as Parliament, will help - is therefore to use April to imagine the opening dates for all categories. I think this will be the best way to plan the country's restart. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u77	Senator Urso has the right to explain the 3-02397 question about the merger process between the Peugeot and FIAT Chrysler groups for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u78	Madam President, while what we have heard before happens and the country faces the pandemic, unfortunately with results lower than those of other European countries, it also happens that almost a million people have lost their jobs, as certified by Istat, and that 45% of Italian companies are at risk, and many at risk of foreign acquisition. In this context there is an important issue, which concerns precisely the sector on which the Italian industry was reborn, that is, the car sector, which still produces millions of jobs with the entire chain, if we look at the whole industry and the plant sector. Well, it happened that in the meantime, what had been announced as a joint merger between the FCA, that is, the glorious Italian FIAT with Chrysler, and the French Peugeot group. We were talking about joint merger and instead we discover, after the merger, that it is not fusion, because it is a sale to Peugeot, and it is not equal, because governance is by French majority, including the managing director, indicated by the French, and including the unions, two present on the board of directors, one expression of the French unions and the other expression of the U.S. unions. Meanwhile, we know that the management appointed by the new CEO of Stellantis is by French majority. Meanwhile, this morning, we know from the newspapers that the Melfi plant plans to close a production line: the Italian factories are beginning to close. Well, against this we also know that the same holding company has sold the Iveco group to the Chinese and that in the meantime it intends to sell Comau and Teksid (which produces engines), always to Asian partners, and has sold small and micro companies in the automotive industry. The question is very specific: what had been notified to Palazzo Chigi, a merger or a sale? Joint governance or not? Was it reported that the French State would increase its shares after the merger? Secondly, why does the Government not put deposits and loans into the field to buy a share equal to that held by the French State, ensuring that Italian factories and the Italian supply chain are also protected from any restructuring? Thirdly, what does the Government intend to do with Iveco, threatened by the acquisition of a Chinese state holding company? Do you intend to use golden power or not, as we ask? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u79	With reference to this question, Senator Urso, I share the fact that industrial policy, with regard to the automotive sector, needs a general and profound remedy, which passes for support not only to demand, but also to supply, an indispensable tool to ensure a serious industrial policy and to stimulate investment in the country. By the way: if we allocate billions and billions of euros by national way and also through the recovery plan to promote the sustainable mobility of buses and commercial vehicles, then it is hard not to imagine an Italian industrial supply that tends to satisfy this type of demand; otherwise we will inevitably go to buy abroad, maybe in China. Proper support for the industrial system is the prerequisite for avoiding relocation or acquisition of national companies, which, otherwise, in many cases, such as those mentioned by the interrogators, are to be regarded as operations of a private nature, which fall within the scope of the exercise of the negotiating autonomy of the undertakings involved and which do not fall within the scope of the cases for which the exercise of special powers is possible, especially when it comes to intra-Community transactions. So it was for the operations that gave rise to the current structure of the Stellantis group. At first the merger between FIAT Chrysler Automobiles and Peugeot took place. On 25 September 2020, the Coordination Group established by the Special Powers Regulation considered the above-mentioned operation not to be subject to notification. The subsequent sale to Assist Digital SpA by FCA Italy SpA of a share equal to 51 per cent of the share capital of FCA Customer Service, a company active mainly in the provision of customer care services, has been the subject of analysis and in the Council of Ministers has decided not to exercise special powers, with a resolution of 18 December 2020, due to the absence of the relevant conditions. But let us come to the future. As regards the Iveco Group, as well as for Comau S.p.A. and Teksid S.p.A., cited by the interrogators, no transactions are currently notified which could give rise to the exercise of special powers. If and when the operations involving the aforementioned companies were undertaken, investigations by the Coordination Group will be initiated promptly to assess the possibility of exercising the special powers referred to in Decree-Law No 21 of 2012, also in the light of the recent decree of the President of the Council of Ministers No 179 of 18 December 2020, which identifies further assets and relationships of strategic importance for the national interest. As Senator Urso certainly knows, within Iveco there are many sectors of activity and production, some also in some way related to the defence industry. For these reasons I can assure you, Senator Urso, that the examination of what will happen in the future, when, of course, the operation will be formalized, because at the moment we have evidence from extensive journalistic reports, I can assure you that the subject you have highlighted will have our full attention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Urso to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u80	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the information he has given us and especially for what he has told us in the event that the holding company of the Iveco group was really given to the Chinese, that is, the hypothesis of opposing the golden power, not only because it concerns a matter of defence, but also because the interweaving between the civil and military part is such that, if the part relating to defence was disembodied, the civil part would not survive anyway. I would also like to thank the Minister for the information he has given us about the FCA Group and the merger. Allow me to disagree because the rule of law, which we have introduced in the so-called liquidity decree, also provides for the possibility of intervening in the case of persons in the European Union. This rule of law was extended to 31 June thanks to our amendment adopted in this House. So, perhaps, something more could be done and all the more can be done today, so we hope - and we have not received an answer on this point - that Cassa depositi e loani acquisti a part of the share of Stellantis, as did the French Government that increased its share until it became the majority shareholder, along with the private shareholders. I would also add that it is an industrial policy problem. We agree with her and with her that we would finally like to draw up an industrial policy that is not just about this sector. Let's think about the steel industry, let's think about the white industry and the groups that are closing like Embraco or Whirlpool, what was the Italian appliance industry with 200,000 places at risk. Let us think of Alitalia and the answers we do not get from the European Union and of which there is absolute need, today more than ever, also because in the previous three years - and not only - an industrial policy worthy of a strategic state that can direct the industrial policy of its country, both where it must resist, as in the field of cars, steel mills, white and household appliances, and where it can implement an active policy, and let us think of the network (i.e. digital) or green energy. We want to be part of this strategic state, because we belong together to our beloved country, that is to say to the Italian system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u81	Senator Boldrini has the faculty to illustrate the question 3-02395 on the future of the production of the petrochemical of Porto Marghera, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u82	Mr President, Minister, on 12 March 2021 through its CEO Claudio Descalzi, the ENI announced to the mayor of Venice, Luigi Brugnaro, that by the spring of 2022 it would definitely want to close the cracking plants of the petrochemical plant in Porto Marghera, providing for the movement of workers on alternative productions that should be started from April 2022. The closure of the cracking plants of the petrochemical plant in Marghera, according to the trade unions, would have a heavy impact on the downstream productions of the site, causing a dramatic domino effect of closure and disposal, with serious prejudice for the future of a strategic sector for the local and national economy. I remember that the factories of Ravenna, Mantova and Ferrara, which with Porto Marghera form the quadrilateral of chemistry, would be directly involved by the closure of the said plant, with serious consequences on their production capacity and their employment levels. I remember that only in the plants of Ferrara there are as many as 1,600 skilled workers and almost all of the production is directly connected to the cracking plants of the petrochemical of Porto Marghera. The possible blockage of the ethylene segment would create a major difficulty in finding the raw material in the market at a higher cost of production. Among other things, we know that after the closure will be made of the investments of beyond 30 million necessary for the potenziamento of the harbour docks for the landing of cryogenic ships suitable to supply the sites of Ferrari and Ravenna. This will happen, however, after closure. ENI has so far not motivated its own choices and has not announced its own industrial plan for the next few years, from which to understand the future perspectives of the site of Porto Marghera and the productive sites of Ferrara, Mantua and Ravenna in productive and occupational terms. It did not even carry out interventions that it had promised years ago in the study phase and it is not expected to be put into operation before 2024. These are also planned after closure. With regard to the sites of Ravenna, Mantova and Ferrara there is no news of specific projects to relaunch or convert production. The event, due to its overall relevance, requires the rapid establishment of a national table at the Ministry of Economic Development with the involvement of all stakeholders directly concerned and the Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto Regions. Minister, we are here to question you in order to know what are the evaluations of the Minister on the reported facts and if you intend to work to establish the national table near the Ministry finalized to face and resolve quickly the described story, in order to safeguard the operational continuity of the productive sites of Porto Marghera, Mantova, Ravenna and Ferrara and to know what initiatives you intend to take to ensure that the projects announced several times by the ENI, but never realized. Moreover, we would like to know, what is ENI's industrial plan also regarding the sites of Mantova, Ravenna and Ferrara, which must be maintained and not only announced and how ENI intends to relate to stakeholders by discussing its industrial policies with transparency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u83	The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u84	Mr President, it is well known that Porto Marghera is one of the largest petrochemicals in Europe. In light of the fearful closure by ENI of the cracking of Porto Marghera, the fear of relapses throughout the quadrilateral of chemistry, which includes Ferrara, Mantova and Ravenna, the Ministry of Economic Development is monitoring the situation to deepen the industrial strategies that will be pursued in the perspective of safeguarding the sector and guaranteeing full transparency. In this context, the company involved has announced that it has set a plan that looks to the future and that it will see the realization of industrial initiatives based on innovative technologies aimed at increasing sustainability, structured with the utmost attention to the employment and skills present on the territory. In particular, it has assured that it is continuing the confrontation with the social and institutional partners and that Porto Marghera is considered one of the fundamental sites of its energy transition strategy that will lead to the complete reduction of the emissions generated from industrial processes and final products to 2050. With the plan of transformation of Porto Marghera, the society has communicated that more than 600,000 tons of annual emissions of CO2 will be cut. The same has remembered that the path towards the decarbonization has begun in 2014, just with the putting in production of the biorefinery of Venice, the first to the world born from the conversion of a traditional refinery that, together with that of Gela, has seen increase in 2020 the total workings of 130 percent. It is a path in which ENI plans to invest overall over the next four years about 4 billion euros in the transformation processes. The company has indicated that the plan outlined so far aims to increase the capacity of biorefinery, thanks to the new plant for the production of hydrogen from methane gas that will be added to the investments already in progress, aimed at making it totally palm oil free by 2023 and to realize new chemical plants - strategic sector for ENI - with a view to specializing for the development of the circular economy. In particular, the project envisages the construction by 2024 of a new Versalis plant for the production of isopropyl alcohol, whose main applications are in the pharmaceutical and in the production of disinfectants and cosmetics. In an area of the former petrochemical, the ENI, with its environmental society, will realize a plant that will produce biooil, destined for the naval sector or used as a biofuel of thermoliquefaction in the organic fraction of the solid urban waste. It is also the study of the creation of the first pole dedicated to advanced mechanical recycling of plastics, whose development is one of the pillars of Versalis' strategy. Porto Marghera is therefore a site of choice in order to provide the market with increasingly sustainable and high quality products. The evolution of the site will imply the stop of the cracking and aromatic plants of Versalis from spring 2022. At this stage, before the stop, Versalis will ensure the operation of safety systems, in compliance with the rules, as well as the confirmation of all routine and extraordinary maintenance operations, asset integrity and inspection and testing planned in the coming months. The Versalis logistic hub will remain a central hub for the supply of raw materials for the industrial companies of Ferrara and Mantua, to which the supply will be guaranteed with continuity. Consolidating elements are already under way to increase flexibility and reliability. Taking advantage of the presence here of my colleague Mr Cingolani, I conclude by saying that clearly the matter in relation to the decree-law before Parliament will also be transferred to the competence of the new Ministry dealing with ecological transition. The table requested by the Senators who submitted the question will certainly be incardinated and the Ministry of Economic Development, of course in collaboration with that of the ecological and energy transition, will make its contribution. I would like to reassure the interrogators on this and I can also do so because Mr Cingolani is here, who is even more competent on the subject today than I am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Ferrazzi has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u85	Mr President, the news that the Minister has given us now, which I thank him for, is beautiful, because it means that the government takes the bull by the horns and tackles the situation organically, through a table of which it is leading. You, Minister, have basically reiterated the wishes which were present in the question, which we all agree with: there is also the Minister for the ecological transition and the Ministers present here know very well how attentive our Group is to this issue. We believe that, for example, even on Porto Marghera and on all the linked sites it is necessary to make transition, because the green deal is not only an environmental policy, but also an industrial one. Today, Minister, with this question, we are asking for exactly the industrial plan, because it is not enough to state the principles or imagine dates that last over time; it is necessary to understand what and how much money there is, on which sectors and with what times, with what employment repercussions, for what transformation of the economy and with what guarantees, because environmental sustainability must stand with economic and also social sustainability. You see, Minister, we would not like, for example, to continue to say that in Porto Marghera, for example, waste to hydrogen, connected to the recycling of plastic, but only mechanical and not chemical, because it is quite clear that, if this is lacking, the transformation of Porto Marghera and the induced into large hubs for the hydrogen of the future risks being only a word. We would also, Minister, like ENI's industrial policies, to be explicit, to be agreed with the territories - or at least communicated to them - because we find it difficult to relate to the territories, the social partners and all the parties that represent a request from our territories and the whole quadrilateral. In conclusion, we therefore ask the Ministers that this table which today gave the good news of wanting to convene - as soon as possible, I imagine, and in very fast times, since we are talking about absolutely imminent dates - has the ability to involve the territories and to develop that guarantee in the green transformation that also puts social sustainability at the centre and therefore that of the transformation of work and workers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u86	Senator De Bonis has the right to explain the question 3-02399 on the construction of vaccine production plants in Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u87	Mr Minister, as we know, Italy is much behind France in the construction of a pole for the production of vaccines with both public and private investments. France has moved well in advance, for about five to six months, and is already able to start its own production of vaccines. At a recent summit, the Minister gave a mandate to identify companies that could participate in the production of vaccines on behalf of third parties by autumn 2021, explaining that they wanted to keep maximum reserve on the companies concerned. Mise sources have certified that already many companies in the Italian pharmaceutical industry are ready to participate in the phase of inflammation and finishing of the serums, while only some would have the ability to produce also the active substance. The Government is therefore working to verify the possibility of using existing bioreactors or to produce them ex novo, with the intention of allocating resources and organizing sites, identifying as Regions Veneto, Lazio and Puglia, with times ranging from four to twelve months. The Minister also stated that important resources would be allocated to this purpose, amounting to a total of between 400 and 500 million euros, to be included in the decree-law support and in a next new decree. I ask the Minister if the first tranche of the resources of the decree supports, amounting to 200 million euros, will be distributed considering the clause of 34 percent of the ordinary expenditure provided for by the so-called Mezzogiorno decree or, in the alternative, if the Ministry will take into account the greater resources to be allocated to the Mezzogiorno through the EU funds, as provided for by the indicators of the European regulation of 12 February 2021; if also in the decree that it is preparing to sign for the second tranche the same criteria will be respected; if finally, in the context of the realization of an industrial development program, it does not consider that the establishments for the production of vaccines are identified in more regions of the Mezzogiorno, waited that in Puglia the only company, the Lachifarma, in its own plant in Provincia of Lecce has already invested 20 million euros with own resources, without contributions. Therefore, while respecting the will of the Ministry to maintain the reserve on the companies involved, we basically ask for the territorial criterion of allocation of resources. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u88	Senator De Bonis, first of all, I would like to make a clarification regarding the appropriations that have been made on this subject. Firstly, I would like to remind you that with the recent decree-law on support, currently in the process of conversion, 200 million have been allocated for the provision of financial facilities to support private investments in the Italian biopharmaceutical sector and for complementary and functional interventions (Article 20 (7) et seq.). These resources are used to encourage the production in Italy of vaccines intended, yes, to overcome the current epidemiological crisis, but above all to prevent and combat future similar events. The same are added to resources already allocated by previous administrative measures for the same purposes. In fact, EUR 200 million was already allocated for the financing of development contracts covering biomedical and telemedicine programmes, as well as technologies and services aimed at preventing health emergencies. This budget has recently been supplemented by a decree of 5 March 2021, which is currently being finalised, of an additional EUR 150 million. By the same decree, however, new implementing arrangements have been defined to strengthen the support provided under the instrument. On this point, I would like to point out that the resources are those currently allocated to existing legislation and that they can then be increased as a result of the use of the funds made available by the European Union. The new implementing arrangements provided for in the aforementioned Decree of 5 March 2021 provide for the possible application to the instrument of development contracts of the provisions of the temporary framework for State aid measures in support of the economy in the current emergency of the Covid-19 (so-called temporary framework). The specific provisions for the development and production of medicinal products and products directly related to Covid-19 have been put in place as far as they are of interest. The application of the provisions of the temporary framework will make it possible to support in a more tangible way the implementation of research and development programmes, with a preferential intensity of 80% of the costs; to support the realization of "productive" investments in a more tangible way (75% of the costs for the test infrastructure and 80% of the expenses for the productive investments), regardless of the location of the investments and the size of the applicant undertaking, overcoming, in this sense, the strict constraints deriving from the ordinary discipline of the State aid currently applicable to that category of investments; to grant the aforementioned facilities in the form of direct grant or advances refundable. The application of these provisions is currently being examined by the European Commission for prior approval. In terms of how to identify potentially affected sites, the priority at present is to combat the current pandemic and, therefore, the interventions that will have to be in the first priority phase are those that allow the fastest operation of the plants involved, precisely in order to ensure the production in Italy of the available vaccines. In this context, the verification activities of the sites potentially affected, which have the appropriate technologies and are available for the immediate conversion of production processes, are still under way. The identification of these sites therefore does not affect its geographical location, rather referring to the above parameters and production capacity, aspects on which incentives will have to be allocated and therefore distributed the resources available on the basis of the instrument of development contracts, provided for by the above primary standard. In essence, in this phase of emergency, without prejudice to the discourse concerning the possible activation of the biomedical vaccination center, what we did to the Ministry of Economic Development, in agreement with the Government, is to identify those productive sites that, within a reasonably short time, from four to ten months, were suitable to implement a process of productive conversion, regardless of location. It is a very complicated process, because it requires the compatibility of technologies, patents and licenses that are available to companies that have become known to daily news (Modern, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, CureVac) with existing plants. So, in this first phase, the urgency is relative to the plants that are potentially able to convert. Different is the discourse that the Government, however, within the framework of the resources that will be allocated later, intends to activate the creation of that vaccine pole and biomedical research that will surely respect the indications and percentages that Senator De Bonis recalled in his question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Bonis to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u89	Minister, I understand the emergency, the timing, the speed, the complexity and the know-how needed to make these investments and probably also in areas already fertile from an industrial point of view, which can already boast an experience in the pharmaceutical field. There is an exception in Puglia and there are already those who are ahead and have made investments. The opportunity of this pandemic crisis must also be an incentive to recover the gap that has long remained in the Mezzogiorno, the basis of which is the absence of an industrial policy. We must try to reduce these inequalities which the Covid has accentuated and I trust that the Government's actions will take due account of future investment in the Mezzogiorno.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u90	Senator Ripamonti has the right to explain the question 3-02400 on the production in Italy of vaccines against Covid-19, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u91	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his presence and availability. It is obvious and objective that there is a suffering in the availability of vaccines and, despite this, Italy used 80 percent of the doses available. It is equally objective that Commissioner Son gave a different impulse to the vaccination plan, as Senator Pharaoh well recalled before, but despite these premises it is evident that the immunity of flock, so useful and so necessary, is still far away. I believe that vaccination autonomy, for a country like ours, is a priority and a fundamental aspect. We also learn of the success of the fourth table that was held at Mise for direct production or on behalf of third parties of the vaccine. This is clearly a fundamental challenge, for the economic recovery and for the intensification of the vaccination plan, through the availability of vaccines. For this reason, Minister, I would like to ask you what the state of affairs is regarding the Italian production of anti-Covid-19 vaccines and what time it is estimated for the achievement of a genuine self-sufficiency vaccine, which sees Italy in a role of relevance in research and production also in the context of possible future scenarios.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u92	The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u93	Mr President, as the interrogating senators know, at the Ministry of Economic Development we have set up a table with representatives of Farmindustria and the Italian Drug Agency (Aifa) and, of course, with representatives of the Government, to try to make up for what we have seen to be, as in other sectors and sectors, a strategic deficiency, because of the total abandonment, in pharmaceutical production and research, of the issue of vaccines. In fact, this is an area where much investment in research is required, with a long-term yield that is highly uncertain and perhaps not profitable. It is for this reason that today the intervention of the state, both with a driving and incentive role, and in economic terms, serves to create favourable environmental conditions, also from the point of view of research and researchers, to the restoration of a national industry, which is currently absent. This is a long-term process. For the short term, that is for the emergency that we are called to live, what has been done, in pragmatic terms, is to understand what exists today and that can be converted, as I said before answering the previous question, in order to somehow marry the Italian production availability with those who have already available vaccines authorised at European level. In order for this to happen, technology transfer, i.e. patents, by the well-known bigs I mentioned earlier, must be made available to these national producers in partnership forms. At European level, Commissioner Breton has launched such meetings between Italian producers and licence holders. On the part of the Italian Government, in recent weeks we have also started direct interlocations with the parent companies holding patents, to induce them to assess the possibility of setting up production centres in Italy, for the benefit of Europe and also for non-European markets. Let's be clear: in a few months there will be over-production of vaccines. Today we have a shortage and probably in October-November we will have surplus vaccines. This does not mean that Italy and Europe should not have the capacity to respond to the challenges, to different dangers, to different viruses and to different variants of the Covid that we know today, so as not to be dismayed, as we have found ourselves in this circumstance. Therefore, our Government, at all levels, starting with the President of the Council, is strongly committed to this prospect which, I repeat, is not so much addressed to today or tomorrow, but is perhaps addressed to the day after tomorrow. However, we must ensure that those who will be on these benches and on the benches of Parliament in two, three, four or five years' time find themselves in exactly the same situation as we have today, namely the inability to respond to the expectations, concerns and needs of our people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u94	I give the floor to Senator Ripamonti to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u95	Mr President, Minister, I take note of your comprehensive reply, but this is a habit: whenever you are asked a question, you are able to give a clear picture of the situation in a precise and precise manner. A country that wants to call itself industrialized has the absolute obligation to have its autonomy, probably in the general sense from the industrial point of view, not least that of raw materials, and in this case, at this precise moment, certainly from the point of view of vaccination. The value that this can have in relation to its project is evident not only from a health point of view, but also from an economic point of view, in terms of production and employment. It is clear that this kind of attitude should have been put on the ground much earlier, I say it without controversy: it had to be done long ago. Therefore, Minister, in the light of all this, I am not only extremely satisfied, but I would like to thank you sincerely on behalf of the League, but also the country that wants to get out of this pandemic quickly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u96	Senator Lupo has the right to explain the question 3-02398 on the industrial level of the new airline company ITA, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u97	Mr President, in such an intense period of economic crisis due to the Covid, the Minister for Economic Development is certainly in a complex situation and that is why we are close to her. The Minister, however, must ensure that employment levels are as high as possible. He is the direct manager of the current Alitalia, the one that flies, the one in extraordinary administration, but he is part in the same context of that group of Ministers that in concert must give the approval to the industrial plan of the new flag company. The questions are many, but I will try to concentrate on a little and also be clear. Who has prepared the ITA plan? Was it presented to the European Union as a sustainable plan for a market offer that is not there, or is it a project for the country, for Italy? This is a substantial difference. We must be convinced of what we do: 3 billion do not throw away. Have MEF and Ministry technicians taken inspiration from other industrial plans? What did they take from the Boston consulting group (BCG)? Did the BCG immediately propose a plan with 50 planes or was there another proposal? The question comes to me almost spontaneously: in my opinion there is another proposal. The technicians know that abandoning slices of the market does not make a recovery plan, but basically there is a real risk of volatilizing the flag company. Has this government asked the illustrious Commissioner Vestager, who talks so much about competition, to come and investigate in our country the blatant dumping within the air transport sector? Has Commissioner Vestager, who speaks so much about competition, ever investigated state aid through false incentives and co-marketing on established and non-new routes? Has the distinguished Commissioner Vestager ever wondered how a 9 euro ticket can be paid when taxes are only paid for 50 euros? The illustrious Commissioner Vestager remembers the Tercas case? I think we should remember that. I just think that those who deal with the European Union should have in mind that we must have a project Italy, a project Country. Our company, the one that will be (the ITA or the flag company) cannot lose slices of the market; our company cannot be a mini Alitalia, because it has already happened, we have already done it, the other Governments have already done it and I do not want to review a 2009, I do not want to review cases like that of Etihad of 2014. Does Commissioner Vestager know that the flag company carries 11,000 employees plus the induced, which in turn generates employees as well as revenue? This is the flagship company. The flag company carries organs, medicines, radiopharmaceuticals, brings help and support to Civil Protection. Do we really want to put an end to the hope that we will have a revival in the air transport sector? I do not think so, Minister, and I trust in your political position within this group of Ministers, who together must give their approval to this plan and hope that it will be completely rebuilt. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u98	The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u99	I would like to thank Senator Wolf for making clarity for the benefit of all, because perhaps the exact division of competences is not very clear. The Ministry of Economic Development responds to what has remained, so to speak, of the old Alitalia with the extraordinary administration. The ITA project is totally in the faculties and prerogatives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which promoted the newco called ITA and which has taken care of and is of course dealing with the industrial plan drawn up by the directors who were appointed by the previous Government. In my opinion, the aspect of the relationship with the European Commission is important. As has been pointed out by the interrogators, following the entry into force of Article 79 of Law No 18 of 17 March 2020 and the consequent establishment of the ITA company for the exercise of the activity of air transport, repeated interlocations have been started with the European Commission in order to define the perimeter of the new company and the acquisition by the assets pertaining to Alitalia currently in extraordinary administration. I would like to point out that these interlocutions are not the result of a free choice, but are imposed by national law which provided for the establishment of ITA. In fact, Article 79, paragraph 3 of Decree-Law No. 78 of 2020, after having provided that for the exercise of the business activity in the field of the air transport of persons and goods is authorized the constitution of the new company entirely controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, or controlled by a company with prevalent public participation also indirect, expressly provides that the exercise of the activity is subordinate to the evaluations of the European Commission. In addition, paragraph 4 of the abovementioned rule provides that the industrial plan submitted by ITA shall be forwarded to the European Commission for assessments of competence and that the company shall undertake the integration or modification of the industrial plan taking into account the decision of the European Commission. It is therefore Parliament - and I am speaking here - which, in my opinion, has adopted a rule which makes, so to speak, the take-off of ITA conditional on the agreement of the European Commission. It was not enough all that is already provided for in some way by the European regulations, by the directives on competition, but Parliament, of which I was a member, even if I am now in the government, has approved a rule requiring the Government to present the industrial plan and have the consent of the European Commission, otherwise it cannot go on. I say that because the rules are approved, they can also be changed, and this of course is put back to your faculty. In this context, the Commission has never excluded the possibility of setting up a flag carrier, but the dialogue focused on the analysis of sector regulation, state aid rules and requirements, including the so-called necessary "discontinuity," so that the new entity cannot be called upon to respond to the overall debt position of the previous airline. In particular, the so-called bridge loans, which have been judged in some way illegitimate, I believe that on April 30 should somehow be returned or charged to ITA. In the context of the negotiations, there was no evidence of discrimination against the Italian State. Even the story of the slots does not appear at the moment unlike the one imposed in some way on other subjects in the European context and of course cannot be - here we come to the theme of the dimension and the perimeter of the activity of the new ITA - inconsistent with the volume of activity that is proposed. It is clear that if a limited number of aircraft is proposed, the number of slots in some way must be consistent. That is the position of the European Commission. In any case, it should not be overlooked - this is another point I would like to stress here - that the overall operation must be evaluated and analysed not only from the perspective of the newco, but also in full respect of the requirements of Alitalia's extraordinary administration, which is expected to be acquired by the assets. Here are some creditors of the extraordinary administration. According to the universal rules of the partnership, creditors are still relying on extraordinary administration (I am thinking of airports, fuel suppliers and employees). In this context, it is firm intention of the Government to adopt all the initiatives functional to the fastest conclusion of the negotiations, which continue to excess even in these hours, in order to realize as soon as possible a structure that guarantees the interests of the Italian State, but is at the same time consistent with the European discipline, avoiding possible negative repercussions in judicial terms, that they would risk to undermine the operation of the company own in the phase of take-off. In the context of the negotiations, the most appropriate way of implementing the complex operation is being examined, and also, as a last possibility, that of renting one more branch of Alitalia's company, in compliance with the principle of discontinuity. This option continues to be on the table (there is a request in this regard), although it is not the first on which we are dealing, because - obviously - much depends on the successful outcome of the main negotiations that we are conducting with the Commission. In any case, it will ensure that the conditions of operation of ITA and the related operations of acquisition of the company's assets, including through transfer by the current flag company, are not less favourable than the analogous operations absent from the airlines of the other Member States, despite the knowledge that a peculiar element of the Italian case is the situation of previous crisis in which Alitalia is now found for years and that it represents a substantial element of divergence compared to the operations absent at European level and of which is discussed in the chronicles of these days. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the power to respond to Senator Wolf for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u100	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. Let's start at one point. It is true that Parliament voted that there should be assessments and not authorisations (previously permissions were written, and now these are evaluations). Parliament - and I am referring here to this Parliament, that of the Dragons Government - has also seen a favourable opinion in the Senate in the Commission on ITA with a number of comments and a clear expansionary and not further reductive direction. Minister, you have spoken of the Alitalia crisis, which has lasted for years. This is well known; there have been so many election campaigns with Alitalia and I would like to avoid making another one. [[Applause]] It seems that there is always the interest - I do not know from which political forces - to keep the Alitalia crisis open. I have given examples and I ask you, Minister, to ask a question directly to the European Commissioner for Competition, Mr Vestager. There are strategic choices and wrong plans, as well as chosen managers who may be very good, but unfortunately they do not know anything about the air transport sector (it takes a year to understand, but then they are immediately changed and are now more the managing directors than the years of Alitalia crisis). Apart from that, however, the point must be made for a moment. Perhaps Mrs Vestager has forgotten what competition is in the Italian market, since there is dumping in France that they forget. [[Applause]] There is no such thing as international companies coming to us to drawer and then they leave when it's no good. Who will guarantee us all the flights once Alitalia vanishes? If they don't make money, those companies aren't there. And we saw during the lockdown only Italian liveries, and not international companies because they didn't earn. You had to do the public service. That's what the flag company is and what our Italian carriers are, whose interest is to stay in our country and not go earning and taking public money and state aid through co-marketing and incentives in fact not authorized because they are illegal. Mr Giorgetti, please, you, the Minister for Economic Development, will focus on the whole context together with the ministers responsible and will completely reject this plan. The Italian Project is a plan not for the country, but to please the competition and Vestager, which should remember the Tercas case.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u101	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u104	THE ABBATE (M5S). Mr President, today I would like to talk to you about air quality, especially air quality in the territory of Brindisi and especially in the city of Brindisi. I would like to mention one particular case, the Versalis plant in Brindisi, included in the petrochemical plant located in the area of Pedagne and included in the perimeter of the site of national interest of Brindisi. This plant has always been subject to special attention from citizens and also from local authorities, due to frequent flames from some torches. Let's say that the plant has also seen many hints on the chronicle, because of some reliefs made by the ARPA; there was a period when the Municipality of Brindisi decided also the suspension of the cracking plant. What's the situation now? The new AIA has been authorised and there is no provision for an improvement in the monitoring system, which had been requested by both citizens and following comments from ARPA Puglia. However, it is expected that the company will reach an agreement with the control authorities for the management and implementation of air quality measuring units. Speaking of air quality, I would say that we must above all include a fundamental parameter: benzene. I have met Minister Roberto Cingolani on the case ENI Versalis, who has clearly assured that the Dicastery will start a dialogue with the company as soon as possible, in order to implement and strengthen the necessary monitoring, which has already been agreed. In addition to this, another important thing to do for the territory of Brindisi is that the company must ensure a tight turn of investments in best available technology, in order to reach a level as high as possible of environmental protection. There is also a need for joint planning between the different companies in the territory, which therefore involves not only Versalis, but also all the other industries operating in the toast, so that the resilience of the territory can be safeguarded and an adequate transition can be ensured, both energy and employment and ecological. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u107	LANNUTTI (Mixed). Madam President, this is not the first time that I am talking about MPS, the oldest bank, swallowed up in a 60 billion crack, still kept alive by the interventions of shareholders and the State, with endless injections of capital, whose financial conditions were aggravated by Resolution 154 of 17 March 2008, signed by the Governor of Bankitalia, which authorised the purchase of Antonveneta with debt operations of up to 9 billion euros (the final account was then 17 billion), also through hybrid instruments and subordinated bonds to be placed on the side of the public indistinguished. Between 2008 and 2011 under the guidance of Mussari and in 2012-2015 with Profumo and Viola, MPS illegally accounted for 5 billion euros of bold speculations in financial derivatives, executed with Deutsche Bank and Nomura, with the aim of concealing the losses of other investment operations (Santorini and Alessandria). Yesterday the court of Milan has announced the reasons of the sentence of condemnation for Profumo and Viola to six years of imprisonment for the strong capacities to criminalize, fully aware of the errors on the derivatives and their work, whose deception lies in the incetta of denari that would have been recently perpetrated with the increases of capital, remaining also an unjust profit in favor of MPS, seems to navigate in better waters thanks to the false that has increased the perception of reliability, not remaining doubts and full awareness of the erroneous accounting to balances exsumable from the granitic summary evidence collected in multiple and convergent elements of significant textual pregnance. The judges claim that the supervisory bodies - Bankitalia and Consob - have witnessed inert events, limiting themselves to insignificant actions in the whirlwind spiral of events, from alarming press reports to the judicial debacle that a more careful exercise of control would certainly have averted. In conclusion, Madam President, I have tabled many questions on MPS, all unanswered, with the Government majority shareholder through the MEF, a real rubber wall which, at the assembly on 6 April, rejected the action of responsibility promoted by member Giuseppe Bivona and the Bluebell fund towards Profumo and Viola and goes back to ask the reasons for the lack of action of revenge for the damages from 5 billion euros to the vigilant authorities for omitted control and of all the architects of the 60 billion black hole placed against the public era, savers, shareholders and MPS workers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u110	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, in the city of Barletta work began on the construction of a supermarket next to the moat of a superb Angevin castle, on an area among the most sensitive of the city between the castle, the ancient walls of the historic center and the sea; an area with strong archaeological sedimentation that expresses the marine identity of the city; a sixteenth-century cartography places right near the castle the pier of rising of the ancient port of the Canosini of Roman times or even pre-Roman; an area whose value was recognized by the ministerial decree of 14 November 1974, declaration of considerable public interest of the port and the coasts overlooking the Angevin castle in the Commune of Barletta. The issue has aroused widespread popular opposition. The authorization measure appears to be regular, but today I read serious doubts in the press. Unfortunately, an old-fashioned general plan allowed it, where a modern general urban plan could have prevented it, even through equalization. Then there is a lack of attention to the historic center as a living and complex body in which commercial activities must be protected. Finally, the preservation and protection of a monument cannot be without the protection of the socio-cultural, historical, architectural, environmental and landscape context in which it is inserted. This is stated in the 1964 Venice Charter. I appeal to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage to protect the area in question, the cones of view of the castle and any archaeological remains. I invite the municipal administration to re-evaluate the administrative process; and consider the possible need for environmental reclamations in the subsoil, given the proximity of an area where fuel deposits insisted, and to monitor compliance with the green rules. Last res: I hope that the municipal administration and the property will meet for a fair relocation that safeguard the private law, but above all the public, of the socio-cultural, environmental and landscape usability of the area. Beauty will save us all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-313.ana.u112	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 13 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.19 a.m.
