ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 29 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, next 11 August will be the hundredth anniversary of the promulgation of the law that has arranged the transfer to the Altar of the Homeland of the body of the unknown Milite: a solemn act wanted by Parliament to honor the memory of the 651,000 Italian soldiers who fell during the First World War. Their sacrifice is evidence of some of the most dramatic pages of our history: pages of courage, pages of heroism and altruism, of which our soldiers were protagonists, as well as of their human fears, anxieties and frustrations that accompanied in the border trenches the burst of every artillery shot. Pages written with the blood of so many young people who have faced the horrors of war and with the pain of parents, wives and children who have not seen them come home, and who have all too often been denied the intimate mercy of a grave or a tomb on which to cry or lay a flower. Over time, the remains of that young nameless milite have become the symbol of the great heart of all Italians in uniform, who have lost their lives in war or mission everywhere in the world; women and men of every generation who have proudly defended, unshakable sense of duty and tireless dedication, the Homeland and its values; values that today are the foundations of a free and dialogant nation. A country that firmly believes in peace as a common good to protect against all forms of violence or prevarication; a country that does not forget and that, on this solemn hundredth anniversary, honors its martyrs with meritorious and valuable initiatives, such as the idea of recognizing honorary citizenship to the unknown soldier by all the Municipalities of Italy, such as the Train of Memory, which on October 28 will leave Aquileia to arrive in Rome on November 4th, once again joining the country on a new symbolic journey, in the footsteps of what a century ago brought the remains of the unknown milite up to the Altar of the Homeland. Above all, a country that tells, explains, handed down its history to the generations of today and to those of tomorrow, so that they also be sent a memory that is part of their cultural identity, as well as a valuable guide to build a better future, because they truly understand the inestimable richness of a heritage of principles, protections and individual and collective guarantees that is also the result of great suffering and sacrifices of human lives. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u7	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would also like to thank you for the institutional courtesy you have shown me. I intervene to draw the attention of this Assembly and, through it, of the public speech of our nation about the disaster that struck the Abruzzo Region: a real massacre of trees that on Sunday we have unfortunately suffered as a regional community, because of an evil conduct of those who wanted to destroy through fire an unrepeatable heritage coinciding with creation. I am referring to a creation that makes us think, in terms of feeling, of warning of consciences, of what you mentioned earlier about the extreme work guaranteed by the unknown Milite, because the Homeland that evokes the ground under which our ancestors are buried is also made of the landscape, of creation, of what allows individual and collective memory. In Abruzzo we lost something like 100,000 trees. A priest of great credibility, Monsignor Iannucci of Pescara, has taught many generations that the trees are the citizens we would have liked to have more. The Parco D'Avalos, of five hundred years of life, has lost more than a third of its consistency, but the d'Avalos pine forest, the one that inspired D'Annunzio's reflection, thought and works, as well as the Costa dei Trabocchi, have also been affected. To intervene in the Senate at this moment serves to draw the attention of the institutions. The 2020 Civil Protection Code provides that the procedures for the recognition of the national emergency are to be implemented in the face of these disasters. And there are elements for the national emergency, since dangers have been removed, people and families have been evacuated, not to mention everything I have described as environmental loss. But if there were only the intervention of governmental state bodies, we would not restore the value of the wise country that is evoked by the landscape. There is also a need to do more by means of citizenship, by those who have much, even in terms of wealth. In fact it will take at least fifteen years to restore those 100,000 trees for the younger generations who want to claim the right to the view of beauty. Standards will be needed to discourage these criminals who have destroyed Creation through fire; sanctions, resources will be needed to ensure that environmental projects also have columns that distribute water, custom-made fire extinguishers, through the precautionary principle. The additional message I would like to send through this intervention is that we must ensure that events are avoided upstream and not downstream, because intervening downstream requires additional resources, requires and imposes a loss of the rights of the younger generations. Mr President, I would very much like the care and care of the relevant ministries to show how the financial provision must be tailored to the values we have in the high lands of our regions. Thank you for allowing me to do this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u10	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I too feel obliged to speak here in the Upper House of Parliament. I address you, dear President, who was only in Pescara a few days ago and was just a few meters away from the pine forest D'Avalos, called d'Annunziana because the Vate had to compose a poem, the rain in the pine forest, which evoked exactly that pine forest. This is precisely the problem: the fire actually broke out in the city and this was perhaps the dramatic element of the news of the fire in Pescara compared to the many fires that have devastated the woods and forests throughout Italy, regarding which we obviously express closeness, because losing forest heritage, losing forests means losing a piece of our life and our history. Pescara however inside the city has not only a park, not only a green lung, but a piece of its own history. For fishers to have lost more than a third of the forest heritage of a park, which in fact became more than ten years ago a nature reserve, meant losing a piece of history. I therefore express a sense of affection and solidarity - I hope to be able to speak on behalf of the whole Group - towards the mayor of the city of Pescara, Carlo Masci, who even cried in front of the cameras when they interviewed him, because he felt on himself the dramatic situation of the forest and historical heritage of a city that went into smoke, a smoke that even has civil housing, has forced many nuns to leave their home to be housed at a hotel in the city. I, too, would like to say that in situations such as this, we need to make the whole Parliament aware of the need for preventive measures to be taken against this kind of need. I hope that obviously in a state of emergency like this there will be an eye on a story that has not only become news in the news from all over Italy, but that it can be an opportunity of proximity to the local administrators of the city of Pescara and the entire Abruzzo Region. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u13	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too would like to join in the words of Senators D'Alfonso and Pagano in expressing my dismay, which must be that of all of us, in the face of this tragedy that hurts the city of Pescara. These are places - those that have been so fiercely affected and devastated by the flames - particularly dear to those who speak to you because, among other things, in the immediate vicinity of the university for many years I had the honour to lead my career: a green lung for the city, close to the homes and bathing establishments. It once again emerged with tragic evidence the fragility of a wonderful territory, but too often exposed to the fury of the weather. This must, of course, lead us all to think about it: in this case it was drought, in other cases it was water bombs, hail, that put the citizenship of Pescara and its administrators in serious difficulty, which is my solidarity, my affection and my closeness at the moment, as well as the assurance - as far as we can in our role as parliamentarians of the territory - that everything will be done to try to remedy the results of this terrible disaster. I thank you, Mr President, and my colleagues who have spoken for allowing us to draw attention to this terrible episode. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u16	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, my speech comes at the end of that of my fellow MEPs in Abruzzo from the other political forces who have already mentioned the tragedy that is currently taking place in Abruzzo. And in remembering Abruzzo we cannot forget the other areas of the country affected in these days by devastating fires, beginning with Sardinia. I will not be here repeating the things already said about the damage, the risks that the same population around these fires and within the areas of the fires has run and is running. Let me say one thing, Mr President, to remind myself and everyone first of all that when we talk about fires we often forget to talk about prevention. It is clear to all, for the news that are coming at least from Abruzzo, that such fires are the result of arson hands that systematically set fire in areas in this case particularly dear to the culture of Abruzzo, but in recent years also inside mountain areas of great value such as the Gran Sasso. Think also of the devastating fire - caused also in that case by arson hands - around Sulmona. I would like to remind you that in Abruzzo, in July, the alarm had arrived from the firemen who complained about the cutting of fire funds by the Region. I don't want to argue here, but what happened proved that the fire department alarm was justified and the justification for it was seen right in front of the devastating dimensions of the stakes. For this reason I remind all of us that, rather than continuing to complain every year about these episodes, we could try more concretely - even within the Senate - to start an initiative, a cognitive investigation to try to understand the dimension of the phenomenon and above all all all the means that are needed and that lack to that policy of prevention that the whole country expects. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u19	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, although I am not from Abruzzo, I am particularly attached to those areas because they are alpine lands, as we are from Belluno and Veneto and, therefore, I speak to bring my solidarity to the peoples and peoples who live today the tragedy of the fires. It is not only Abruzzo, which would already be enough to raise an alarm bell respect, on the one hand, to climate change and, on the other, to the human stupidity of those who set fire in places so valuable, as happened in Pescara, but also in Sardinia, Sicily and, as happens too often, in many regions of Italy. It is useless to talk about prevention in a parliamentary context when it was Parliament in the last parliamentary term that deprived itself of the only body that in Italy did prevention and, that is, the State Forestry Corps. [[Applause]] Let us try to bring the speech back into a beehive a little more coherence and, in some way, intellectual honesty. That body did not only do repression, which in many cases is due, but also - I say as mayor - had a great function of prevention, assistance, collaboration and coordination together with the institutional forces and bodies such as the Municipalities, Provinces and Regions. Dismantling it, changing it and giving it a different destination was a mistake that we can remedy. There is a draft law presented to the House by Brothers of Italy, at my first signature, and a bill to the Senate at the first signature of my colleague Rauti, who could recover the professionalism that exists in our territory of former agents of the State Forestry Corps precisely for this purpose. Today that there is no more the Forest Corps we realize how important and effective it would be in an emergency like the one we are living in Abruzzo. Colleagues, no more words of solidarity and empty comments; let us speed up the process of those measures and laugh at this nation the glorious Forest Corps of the State. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u22	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we are intervening not only to express solidarity with the people affected, but also to stress the seriousness of what has happened. As my colleague Mr D'Alfonso said, not only did 100,000 trees smoke, but also the incomparable historical and environmental value of the ecosystem of the d'Annunzian pine forest. Mr President, unfortunately, we have been witnessing fires in Sardinia and Sicily in recent weeks. So, there is a situation of serious emergency. I also tell President D'Alfonso that, perhaps, he can help us understand how to intervene. We have before us an emergency with very high temperatures and with everything that this entails and, as always, these fires are of arson nature because we have found the grafts. Then I wonder what we have to do, because that's what we need. Soon we will be discussing cybersecurity, but we have a problem with environmental safety and prevention. We have asked several times to be able to use drones and to make an investment in Civil Protection and the State so that we can closely monitor the territory. We must not forget what is happening now. There's another matter. I always say this to my colleague D'Alfonso: it was a serious mistake to have dissolved the State Forestry Corps (the inclusion in the Carabinieri's weapon has de facto decreed its dismemberment) which played a great function in terms of prevention and control - it is not the same competence entrusted to the firefighters - and which over the decades knew the territory very well. During the examination of the Decree-Recruitment Act we have tabled some amendments which concern the Forestry Corps, which of course have been declared impossible, but we have done so to raise the issue and ask - I see Mr Toninelli, who has made the same request - for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to open a deal assigned precisely on the issue of the Forestry Corps, hoping to find solutions to what was a very serious mistake. Let us not forget, let us avoid making sure that in a few weeks we will have forgotten, because the protection of our territory, our forests and our ecosystems is a real emergency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u23	I would also like to join in the words of those who have spoken before me to express my personal and I think of the whole House's closeness to the people who have been affected. I am referring not only to the fires that have devastated Abruzzo, but also to those that have devastated Sardinia and Sicily. I must say that it is a tragedy that really hurts the heart and makes us think that we are not only in an emergency situation: every time we talk about emergency, but we are in a fragile Italy, so we are in a situation of constant danger. There was also recently the issue of Como, which revealed the problems of hydrogeological failure. We are therefore in the presence of a beautiful Italy, but very, very fragile. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u24	The Conference of Leaders has redefined the current week's calendar. Today's session will discuss, until its conclusion, the decree-law on cybersecurity. To this end, the sitting shall not include closing hours. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting, beginning at 11 a.m., provides for the joint discussion of the 2020 and 2021 accounts, for which final votes are required for the presence of the quorum. The President's communications will also be made, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, on the bill of delegation to the Government in the matter of entertainment, connected to the maneuver of public finance. The sitting will then be suspended until 4 p.m. and will resume with the discussion of resolutions adopted by the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees on Italy's participation in international missions. The time was divided between the Groups for a total of three hours, including explanations of vote, without prejudice to the time of the rapporteurs and the Government. Thursday 5 August will be discussed the decree-law on the safeguard of Venice and the protection of the work. The question time already scheduled for Thursday 3 p.m. will not take place. The work of the Commissions will resume from the week of 30 August, without prejudice to the authorization to convene at any time, even on a previous date, in relation to the needs in matters within its competence. The Assembly will meet again on Tuesday 7 September, at 4.30 p.m., with communications from the President on the agenda, to be defined by the Conference of the Leaders convened on the same day on Tuesday 7 September, at 3 p.m. I would remind you that on Thursday 5 August, at 8.30 a.m., the Single Chamber Commission of Inquiry into Gambling will be convened for its constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u25	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, amended - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the current week's schedule: [[Tuesday, August 3, h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 2336 - Decree-Law n. 82, Cybersecurity (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on August 13) - Drawing of law n. 2308 and 2309 - Report 2020 and Settlement 2021 (final votes with the presence of the legal number) - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2- bis, of the Regulation, on the draft law n. 2318 - Delegation to the Government in the matter of entertainment (connected to the maneuver of public finance) - Doc. XXIV, No 48, and Doc. XXIV, n. 49 - Resolutions approved by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a on the participation of Italy in international missions (Wednesday 4, at 16) - Drawing of law n. 2329 - Decree-Law n. 103, Safeguard of Venice and protection of the work (final vote by 20 August) (expands on 18 September) (Thursday 5) Wednesday 4 " h. 11-20 Thursday 5 " h. 9.30-20]] The work of the Commissions will resume from the week of 30 August, without prejudice to the authorization to convene at any time, even on a previous date, in relation to the needs in matters within its competence. [[Tuesday, 7 September h. 16.30 - Statement by the President on the agenda]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2336 (Decree-Law No 82, Cybersecurity) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 33'+5' PD 29' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 2308 and 2309 (Rendiconto 2020 e Assestamento 2021) (4 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of docs. XXIV, No 48, and XXIV, No 49 (Resolutions approved by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a on the participation of Italy in international missions) (3 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25' PD 22' FdI 17' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 13' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2329 (Decree-Law No 103, Venice Safeguards and Labour Protection) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 33'+5' PD 29' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u26	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2336, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Mantovani, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u27	Mr President, this measure brings the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 82 of 14 June 2021 laying down urgent provisions on cybersecurity, the definition of the national cybersecurity architecture and the establishment of the National Cybersecurity Agency. I would remind you first that cyber security is one of the actions foreseen in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and is one of seven investments in the digitisation of public administration, the first axis of action of component 1 "Digitization, innovation and security in public administration," included in mission 1 "Digitization, innovation competitiveness, culture and tourism." The text of the decree-law, already approved with amendments by the Chamber of Deputies, consists of 19 articles. Articles 1 to 4 define the national cybersecurity system, which the President of the Council of Ministers has at his summit. Specifically, Article 1 contains some definitions used in the Decree-Law. Article 2 gives exclusively to the President of the Council of Ministers the high management and general responsibility of cybersecurity policies, the adoption of the relevant national strategy, and the appointment and revocation of the Director-General and Deputy Director-General of the new National Cybersecurity Agency established by Article 5. The Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic (Copasir) and the relevant parliamentary committees shall be informed in advance of these appointments. Article 3 provides that the President of the Council of Ministers may delegate to the Delegated Authority for the Republic's security information system, where established, the functions which are not assigned to him exclusively. The Delegated Authority shall be obliged to inform the President of the Council at all times, who may, subject to the power of directive, at any time invoke to himself the exercise of all or certain functions. The Delegated Authority shall, in relation to the functions performed, pursuant to this Decree-Law, participate in the meetings of the Interministerial Committee for the Digital Transition, as referred to in Article 8 of Decree-Law No 22 of 2021. Article 4 establishes within the Presidency of the Council of Ministers the Interministerial Committee for Cybersecurity (ICC), a body with advisory, proposal and supervisory functions. The Committee has the following tasks: to propose to the President of the Council the general guidelines to be pursued in the framework of national cybersecurity policies; to exercise high surveillance on the implementation of the national cybersecurity strategy; to promote the adoption of initiatives to promote cooperation at national and international level between institutional actors and private operators interested in cybersecurity, for the sharing of information and for the adoption of best practices and measures aimed at the objective of cybersecurity and for industrial, technological and scientific development in the field of cybersecurity; to express the opinion on the budget and the balance sheet of the Agency for National Cybersecurity. The Committee is chaired by the President of the Council and is composed of the delegated authority and the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Interior, Justice, Defence, Economy and Finance, Economic Development, the ecological transition, University and Research, Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility and the Minister of Technology Innovation. The functions of secretary of the Committee shall be carried out by the Director-General of the Agency for National Cybersecurity. Other members of the Council of Ministers and other civil and military authorities may participate in meetings of the Committee, without the right to vote, and from time to time it is considered necessary to be present in relation to the matters to be dealt with. Finally, the functions already assigned to the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic (CISR) are transferred to the CIC by Decree-Law No 105 of 2019 (so-called decree-perimeter law) and by the related implementing measures, with the exception of those provided for in Article 5 of the same decree-law in the matter of decommissioning of equipment or products in case of serious and imminent risk to national security, connected to the vulnerability of networks, information systems and IT services. Following are a series of provisions concerning the National Cybersecurity Agency, instrumental in the exercise of the competences that the decree-law assigns to the President of the Council and the delegated authority. Article 5 provides for the institution to have legal personality under public law and regulatory, administrative, capital, organizational, accounting and financial autonomy within the limits of the decree in question. In particular, the Decree-Law provides for the adoption of the following regulations: regulation of organisation and operation; regulation of accounting; regulation of procedures for the conclusion of contracts of contracts of contracts of works and supplies for activities aimed at safety; regulation of staff. Article 6 governs the organisation of the Agency, at whose summit is the Director-General, who is the legal representative of the Agency, as well as the direct contact person of the President of the Council and the delegated authority. Article 7 defines the numerous functions of the Agency, recognised as a national cybersecurity authority, as a national competent authority and a single contact point for network and information systems security, as well as as as a national cybersecurity certification authority. Further provisions relating to the Agency are contained in Article 11 concerning financial resources and accounting autonomy; Article 12 governing staff and Article 14 relating to the annual reports which the President of the Council is required to forward to Parliament and the Copasir on the Agency's activities. Articles 8 and 9 concern the establishment, at the Agency, of a core for cybersecurity for aspects related to prevention and preparedness for possible crisis situations and for the activation of alert procedures. Article 10 deals with crisis management involving aspects of cybersecurity. Article 13 deals with the processing of personal data for national and cybernetic security purposes. Article 15 dictates a series of novelties to Legislative Decree No. 65 of 2018, which gave effect to the Directive EU▁disposizioni[48], so-called Network and Information Security Directive (NIS), in order to harmonize it with the regulatory framework proper to the decree-law in question. Article 16 provides for the same purpose other legislative acts. Article 17 lays down transitional and final provisions, while Article 18 contains financial provisions. Article 19 provides for entry into force. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u28	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u29	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the dry report we have just heard in the rapporteur's words certainly gives an idea of the architecture of a system, but it may not be able to give us the deepest dimension that cybersecurity problems have in a number of areas that touch us very closely. In this particular case, I would like to focus on the impact these aspects have on health. You know - it is an integral part of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan - that the digital transition is the prerequisite to allow the organizations that make up the National Health System to achieve the objectives that have been focused precisely in the great operation of modernization of our country, which starts precisely from our health system, giving it new life from the inside and changing its dimension, so far strongly hospitalized, to open it to embrace the endless measures that can affect a health more active on the territories. The digital transition is therefore of strategic and cross-cutting importance to all other issues. For this reason, access to health and social welfare services must be simplified, including by redesigning a model of the National Health System that can accompany the patient from the beginning of the use of the services, including hospital-territory continuity, integration, socio-health collaboration, the development of home care, through the definition of appropriate diagnostic-therapeutic pathways. But none of this could be done without a strong, clear, explicit and - let me pass the word - revolutionary technological transition, which gives the digital system the management of data of an infinite delicacy, as are all the data concerning our health and, in a sense, our personal identity. It is the great revolution that technology will make through the digital transition, of which the President-in-Office personally assumes responsibility. The subject of cybersecurity has its reference point in the President-in-Office of the Council and we hope that - cost what it costs - the transition will be done to guarantee the health, data and privacy of each of us, to guarantee the effectiveness and efficiency. That is precisely why, in the 12th Commission, when we are discussing this measure today, we have obviously expressed a favourable opinion, but with one comment, which I would like to draw to the attention of the whole House: the Ministry of Health is also in the directing chamber, among the many authoritative people who are called to participate in it. Indeed, the health of the system is at stake, but also the health of each of us. For this reason it is necessary that, when it comes to cybersecurity and massive investments, which are made not only on digital in the general sense, but in particular on digital health, in that organizational brain there are experienced health professionals. I believe that this can be a very good time to change the national health system better and to generate those national plans that until now were destined to be parked in a drawer, whether it is the National Health Plan from an oncology point of view, the one on rare diseases or the one on chronicity. All this can be revitalized if the computer networks are able to intercept the real needs and offer answers to them. So I think it's a very good time to combine technology with what we call medical humanity, which is that humanization of medicine... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u30	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u31	Mr President, the recent hacker attack on the IT system of the Lazio Region has made it clear to us, if we still need it, that the cyber threat is actually real and close to the lives of ordinary citizens. Malware, increasingly sophisticated, not only offends the country's strategic interests, but can also directly affect people, taking away their economic resources, access to energy sources, transport and care. In the case of this attack it would have been a ramsonware for extortion purposes, which caused a delay in the functioning of the regional vaccination system, which operates within the framework of the efficient national coordination entrusted to the professionalism of the great General Son, and could have been the cause of other infections that could of course have been avoided. The same type of attack has recently paralysed the Irish health system and the great American oil pipeline. Even during wars, the enemy's health institutions are protected by international conventions; computer attacks, on the other hand, have no rules and their purposes are often not easily decipherable, such as the identity of their authors. We can therefore only consider the establishment of the National Cybersecurity Agency to be appropriate and necessary, which fills an anachronistic vacuum among the instruments for the defence of national interests and assets. The delicate phase of the digital transition of public administration must be protected and guided by the experts of the Agency, also in order to prevent the absurd situation that institutions' IT systems are significantly more fragile and backward than the systems held by private individuals. Public administrations' computer systems contain the most confidential data of citizens and should be defended against criminal incursions, with the same care reserved to the vital secret services of the State. The security of citizens' data will become even more compelling as the homogeneous electronic health file will be created at national level, which will become the single point of access, for citizens and residents, to their own clinical history and to the services offered by the National Health Service. Another aspect of the digital transformation of public administration, prescribed by the PNRR, will be the migration of administrations to the cloud and the interoperability of computer systems, computer centralization that will have to take place in a strictly guarded environment. I hope that the Agency can be an agile and responsive structure and I can only appreciate the fact that it will respond directly to the President of the Council of Ministers and the Delegated Authority for the security of the Republic, in full respect of Parliament's prerogatives. But strengthening the cybersecurity of the public sector could be inefficient if there is no robust public information campaign on cybersecurity issues. Colleagues, we all know that even one infected personal computer can be the starting point for devastating cyber attacks. Computer security education should be a matter of education, as is road safety. The Agency will be the national coordination center that will relate with its counterparts international bodies, an important garrison for the protection of our citizens that will bring Italy closer to the highest safety standards. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, as the rapporteur has rightly said, cybersecurity is the fundamental pillar of the digital economy, and that is why we must understand the Agency as a governance organisation. If we do not make this leap, it will be yet another superstructure, moreover - these issues have been addressed already for four, five years - regulated already before, and of which we have clearly redefined the perimeter, the activities, the objectives and the objectives. A number of things have happened - let's think about the attack on the Lazio Region - that must absolutely make us think. The measure on cybersecurity is therefore an excellent initiative, provided that it is not thought that the organization can cope alone with the attacks and especially those defined nation-state. Security is an ecosystem that is built by teaming with major international players and defining partnerships between public and private. About that, I'm opening a parenthesis. A number of tenders were awarded to private suppliers and no attention was paid to cybersecurity issues in the chapters. Keep in mind that a significant part of application maintenance and systems is done precisely by private companies and is built by leaving to the private all activities of threat intelligence and threat analysis and instead reserving to the public intelligence activities on the most sociological, psychological, behavioral, cultural and political issues. In this respect, strong international cooperation between intelligence agencies would be desirable because it is essential to know the enemy. The enemy of the third millennium is not the one who launches planes and tanks as if they were bombs, but is a real pirate, a subject that has no homeland, no scruples and that, with a click on a computer, which is perhaps on the other side of the world, can trigger real wars; wars that are unleashed today blocking airports, hospitals, communication and everything that lives and works through connections. [[Applause]] You even think that expert hands today could block a last generation car with the passenger inside. In short, these are absolutely subjects not to be underestimated. As we know perfectly well, the new wars are fought in cyberspace and we are giving in completely free - and, if we want, unconscious - everything we own. This is because we have never invested in the widespread and widespread training that pervades the real economy and that - in my opinion - should start from kindergarten. Kids "smarnett" on devices and, therefore, it wouldn't be bad to think about introducing digital as a school subject, as culture has to grow from below. What can be done? I am thinking of a national security infrastructure that is understood as an armored door or window - and that is not enough - and also platforms. Technicians use the term security operations center (SOC) to indicate those tools that are fundamental especially if made available to small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have the skills, nor the resources to be able to cope with attacks. Do you know how many people notice a computer being stolen, but not the data one? Like I said, we need an education that's capillary... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u35	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly at the heart of a major technological revolution - we see it every day - and the security of our computer systems is absolutely central. Nothing's the same as before. As my colleague Mrs Tiraboschi reminded us, we are used to warlike international conflicts, with perhaps the use of tanks, rockets and aircraft, but today we are faced with a completely different scenario, which must make us reflect and which sees Italy in a condition of absolute fragility and vulnerability. We must react and I believe that the answer we are giving today is adequate, but we must certainly do more. We must learn to protect our borders, first and foremost the geographical ones, the terrestrial ones and the marine ones, which deserve a great deal of attention, because there is no nation without borders. However, the boundaries of cyberspace, the boundaries of technology, the boundaries of large structures and infrastructure must also be protected. I think - for example - of the attack on the Lazio Region to which reference has been made, with the use of hackers who have managed to break through the lines, putting in serious difficulty the vaccination campaign of the Region and the same system of the green pass, determining a situation that we would not have expected before. The defense of cyberspace therefore becomes fundamental, because we certainly protect ourselves, our affections, our home, but we must protect Italy and, with it, Europe, which has already activated since 2016 to require more attention on this sensitive issue. It is therefore a question of absolute sovereignty, which passes through, circulates and travels no doubt alongside us and above us. We therefore need to give a warning, especially to politics, paying attention also to the ruling class that will be called to lead the country: 300 employees have already been hired, but we need to have highly qualified staff. During the Second World War - the year 1941 was running - the United Kingdom, which had entered the war for two years now, was faced with a very serious situation: if it is true that it had radar and very important means of war, it is equally true that it could not decode the enigma code that was used by the Axis. To do this, an enigma of the most difficult solution was published on the "The Daily Telegraph" - a particular crossword puzzle. Many answered, but only a few were able to give the right answer. Well, the Secret Service of His Majesty intervened, succeeding in enlisting those people into a large cryptanalysis operation so as to decode the enigma code. To do so were linguists, chess players, mathematicians, scientists, people of the highest level. We need to search for those who have these great abilities; in particular, we should also test their extraordinary fidelity because - as you well understand - on such delicate issues we must go in this direction. National security therefore concerns not only the economy, but also military structures. On July 29th, we had an attack. We must respond forcefully; it is probably not enough the penal code, with Article 615-b and, above all, with the prediction of the crime of attempted extortion. We must intervene heavily. I believe that Forza Italia has played a key role in making a significant contribution to the improvement of the measure under consideration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u36	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, today we are called to vote for the bill to convert the decree-law on cybersecurity, an important issue with a view to the design of the future, one of the biggest and most complex challenges facing all societies in the world. There are two starting points to be analysed: the first concerns the risk and essentially the vulnerability to which the IT system is exposed; the second concerns the fact that digital domination will always be one of the most decisive factors for competition between States. The theme of cyber attacks has characterized the last few years around the world; foreign attacks that have concerned - for example - our municipalities, not to mention the Colonial Pipeline, an American oil pipeline. The world's industrial system has very often seen its own hacked systems, as in the case of steel mills or the Maersk navigation giant. There have been many examples that have happened in the world in recent years, not to mention the story that has concerned the Lazio Region recently. Cyber attacks lead to system costs, legal costs, regulatory costs and IT costs, and we need to give answers to reduce these costs and risks for our citizens. This is why it was essential to develop a deeply rooted culture of cybersecurity, because public administrations are exposed to risks on the one hand, but also the private economic fabric on the other. The economic fabric, especially that of small and medium-sized enterprises, is often very exposed, because the security systems of small and medium-sized enterprises are weak and businesses do not have sufficient resources to cope with costs. If we compare it with the rest of Europe, we must reflect on why intervention in our country was so necessary. Germany has a cybersecurity agency set up in 1991 with 1,200 employees. In France, too, there is an agency with over a thousand employees. We became aware of this issue of cybersecurity in 2017, when we re-inserted it into the intelligence sector. We need to assess - and the Government has done so - that this is not only a problem of intelligence, but it is much more complex and concerns other areas, especially public-private cooperation, as I said before. Therefore, let the bill come to our examination that Italy Viva has supported with conviction also to the House, which provides for a slender summit, the Presidency of the Council, as a fundamental reference of the new Agency. There has been a strengthening of the Commissions, a strengthening of the role of the Copasir and a monitoring action by Parliament which will also have to be carried out in the future with regard to the initiatives to be taken by the new Agency. The theme of cybersecurity, therefore, is complex but must be addressed, especially because our public administration has a server rather exposed from this point of view. So let us welcome this kind of initiative. The objective will have to be an ever-increasing and widespread connectivity everywhere, which is the fundamental character of modern societies. We must look ahead: the network and computerization open up new prospects for growth in employment and services. We need to protect networks and computerization. We must not turn to the other side, but rather we must support progress with conviction. We reformists accept this challenge, we don't close our eyes curly, we don't look to the past, but rather look to the future and we believe that society needs to be changed and made safer. In this sense, the commitment expressed by the Government with the measure under consideration is strongly supported by Parliament in a cross-cutting way to the starting positions of majority and opposition. It is a commitment that we support with conviction because it concerns the future and security of the country. It will be important to work in this area by ensuring a continuous commitment by Parliament, which will be crucial in the analysis of the state of progress of the Agency and its functioning, which is the crucial aspect of the converted decree-law that we are about to approve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u39	Mr President, the issue of cybersecurity and cybersecurity is extremely important. More and more we entrust our data of all kinds to the Network, to computer supports; undoubtedly this speeds up a series of processes and allows to realize a series of extremely important conveniences and economies, as it is to be updated in this field. However, the fact that this instrument is now fundamental for the management of almost any sector of our activities exposes us to particular dangers and this applies to many areas, from military security, to government security, to that of government structures, health data, bank data. It is a huge series, difficult to complete, because by now all our sectors rely on this support, this technology. Safety in this area is therefore essential, as has already been said. Other countries are far ahead of us, they have structures that have already been working for years, with great support of means and staff. We're behind. The previous government has done everything possible to keep us behind with extravagant plans to entrust IT security management to private companies; these projects had the big flaw not only of being senseless in themselves, but also of having wasted a lot of time. Now, the measure under consideration is finally taking note of an important reality. This is a highly competitive issue, because in the most serious and accredited universities, where computer engineering is at the highest level, the main exercises regarding security, which - as we know very well - are done in the following way: half of the students work as if it were a bank, a Ministry, a company, any entity that has an interest in protecting its data and not letting in strangers; another half of the students do the opposite work, that of the hacker, the cyber pirate. I say this to make it clear that we need staff, a technology, a structure at the highest level, because in this area the second place does not need: in the first place there is society, the entity, the Ministry, the military department that manages to maintain its security, while in the second there is the subject that fails and that is loses. It is therefore necessary to equip ourselves, to think that we have ambitions that go far beyond what is required by the decree-law in question, which, as I said, is a step in the right direction from the point of view of quantity, for which we must equip ourselves with the necessary structures, human, technological and financial resources, and quality. I have fallen my eye on Article 8 of the measure concerning the core for cybersecurity, which should be precisely the tip of the diamond where the most advanced strategies are developed, where there must be the best ideas. We know very well what has been put in to make the accounts right, because there are no cover issues. This paragraph has been inserted, in which it is said that the members of the nucleus are not responsible for compensations, presence tokens and reimbursements expenses or other emoluments anyway denominated. This is a beautiful, virtuous, I would say pauperistic statement, but I have some doubt that it is possible to attract the necessary skills to these conditions: zero money, zero compensation, zero reimbursement expenses. Maybe someone will go there, but we need the best, we have to take very seriously what we are all saying, that is to say that wars are fought on the net. It already happens today and has happened in the past, it is not something futuristic, that will happen in five, ten or twenty years. We must therefore equip ourselves - indeed we had to do it earlier - and we must be aware that we must have the best weapons, because the bow against the machine gun does not make it, even if it is a respectable weapon. We must be equipped, we must have an absolutely structural approach, because here there is no difference between military and non-military, between one sector and the other, between the inside and the foreign: the network is global, therefore the threat is global, it can come from anywhere on the planet, of course it can also come from within our country and the victim can be anyone. There is not even a distinction from the point of view of the vulnerability and strategicity of the possible consequences of an attack that we suffer and that such attack is successful, because there is no difference between public administration and private, because there is no difference between hitting a large company, a bank, or a structure of the state. The consequences for everyone are very serious. There is therefore a great deal of work to be done, but in this provision there is a beginning that we frankly believe is still far from sufficient and we also have, in some aspects related to the way in which these agendas are structured, a certain awareness that everything must be at the head of the Government while the opposition, which today is constituted by Brothers of Italy and tomorrow will be constituted by others, is somewhat kept aside. This is a matter of national interest, which concerns everyone, nobody can be excluded, some ministries cannot be included in the ministerial committee, perhaps because today they are occupied by members of certain political forces or certain cultural currents, and keep others out of it because they are not part of those sectors instead. There is a great deal of work to be done, this is a first step but the issue of cybersecurity must be treated with great seriousness and with the conscience that involves us all, that we need the collaboration of everyone, the minds and the best ideas. We have tabled our amendments and agendas to make a contribution, we have to move on and a lot on this road. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u40	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u41	Mr President, that we needed a cybersecurity agency that we had said several times; indeed, someone had already tried it in the last parliamentary term, then the matter had been stopped. Afterwards, a journey has resumed with respect to this topic and in these days - in life it is also necessary the fatality - the Lazio Region undergoes the cyber attack and the Parliament finds itself to approve the bill so that this Agency for cybersecurity can be born. Security is fundamental, as is privacy and freedom: let us never forget, even when we go to write and then vote, as we are doing today, on a measure on cybersecurity. I would like to know how many people have read the text; I would be very curious to know in detail how many colleagues have read all the articles of the decree-law on cybersecurity. I say this because frankly, although we are totally in agreement with the establishment of the Agency, I would like to ask everyone whether they know that, halfway through, this Agency becomes the National Cybersecurity Authority. I would like to know if everyone has read that the salaries of the 300 people who will work there are adequate to the Bank of Italy, subject to private law, therefore not linked to the roofs. Then don't complain if the wages are high! On the other hand, it is also right that this should be the case. However, courage is needed in life: if we want to make this choice, we activate the spoil system, assume responsibility, and choose the best. And instead we assume one part by public ban, another part by fixed-term call, which we do not know how long it will last. And then we talk about public service and exclude the Ministry for Public Administration from all bodies, both from the Interministerial Committee and from the core for cybersecurity: the public service is not there. I've been told it's an agreement born like this. I do not like it: we are talking about the public service, we are talking about public offices, state security, local authorities, we are talking about the security of citizens and the Ministry of Public Administration is not provided for within the bodies. All this is quite singular. The last issue on which I want to spend the time I have left is the role of Parliament. There is an article within the norm that says that the Copasir can summon the Director-General of the Agency: but this is a great fortune! It's a good thing the law tells us. It's a good thing. Gentlemen, in these weeks, in these months, Parliament is losing its role, function and quality every day. Let us be careful: I would not want a parliamentary agency to be set up sooner or later to replace us all. Think about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u43	Mr President, I will use much less than the time allocated to me. I will also be very brief because - it is fair to say - this measure comes to us from the House of Members and, as is often the case lately, with little room for manoeuvre; therefore, the examination in the Commission has also been quite rapid. It is right to remember this and stress it all the time because I believe that every time, regardless of our role as a majority or opposition, the defence of Parliament's centrality is a duty for us first and foremost. However, we must say that the decree-law came out of the House virtually unanimously; therefore, we can follow up our work quickly because it is a fundamental measure also to implement our commitments related to the PNRR. It is an important measure for the real emergency that - allow me - is not exaggerated to compare to the situation related to covid. We do not see it, but for some years there has been a real war that is no longer fought on the battlefields, but along the lines of computer communication. Perhaps to call it a third world war is exaggerated, but it is really a situation that is difficult to quantify and assess. It is important for Parliament to become aware of what cybersecurity is today and to act also because the use of information technology, of course, is increasing exponentially from year to year. In the last year we have seen how much everything related to smart working has led us to increase the dissemination of data that move along the telematic lines even in sectors that were previously touched only marginally and, therefore, cybersecurity is a central theme of our policy. Attacks also increase exponentially and it is an area where - I repeat - the evolution of these attacks is always increasing. If we want to make a comparison, given that we are on days of sporting events because the Olympic Games are in progress, I would say that we must act like anti-doping that must follow doping in continuous evolution. There is a computer doping that evolves every day and increases its capabilities and we must pursue, be updated and allow all the public administrations involved to be always ready to respond to these attacks, which change day after day. It is not an easy theme; it is a delicate theme, we know it. We must act decisively, but also with caution because of its delicacy. It has done well - and I commend our group to colleagues from the other branch of Parliament - to include Parliament's greater involvement in various articles of the decree. It is important that Parliament should be involved, involved and that there is also the possibility of having a direct relationship with the citizens of the electorate. The importance of cybersecurity is also given by current events. We all know there's a hacker attack going on these days. We will find out the details later, but we can say that it is a computer attack made to hurt and that it has shown the weaknesses of our system, not only because the data is stolen, which is already serious in itself, but because the intervention on public health is compromised and endangered and it is useless for me to repeat how important this is in this period. We must act as soon as possible to give instruments to all our institutions to meet this challenge. I say this even if I could - and I would have had an easy game - attack the lack of foresight of that President of the Region who a year ago took the aperitifs on the Navigli. We remember that, but I don't want to. I believe that we, as the Lega Group, must give a different signal in this House, even though I wonder what would have happened to inverted parts. [[Applause]] If this hacker attack had struck not Lazio, but another region, for example Lombardy, what would we have heard in this House today? [[Applause]] Would we listen to Senator Pellegrini ask for Fontana's resignation? Would we have heard Senator Toninelli ask for the Lombardy Region police station? Am I far from reality? No, we would have heard these sentences; we would have listened, perhaps from the left, accusations to the Lombardy Region of having endangered lives. Well, the asteroid fell in February 2020 on the head of Lombardy, today is falling on the Lazio Region. I was saying that I would play easy to move on for all my ten minutes and all my colleagues in the Group could sit down. But we do not want to do this and we do not want to go down to that level, and the demonstration of this is the measure of our being here, our being in Parliament and being in the government with responsibility. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u44	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u45	Mr President, I will make a brief reply. I am certainly pleased to hear from all the political forces that there is unity and agreement on the need for the establishment of this agency, whose importance we are all aware of today. I refer to what Senator Tiraboschi said about the need for more pervasive training, because today we have a strong shortage of these professionalisms and it is necessary to invest from primary school, even with a new subject school, computer science, so as to have in the future more experts and more professionals in this field. As far as the attention to small and medium-sized enterprises is concerned, support is needed, which will come from the Agency, and greater interaction between the security needs of small and medium-sized enterprises and the public administration. The Agency will be able to provide the necessary support to improve the safety of all. A small clarification, however, for Senator Malan, as regards the compensation that is not the responsibility of the core: the core is a consultative body composed of the Director-General of the Agency, the military adviser of the President of the Council of Ministers and high offices, which already have their own emoluments. As regards the staff of the Agency, Article 12 provides for an economic treatment equal to that enjoyed by the employees of the Bank of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u46	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I note that the agendas are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed with the examination of the agendas referred to in Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u47	Mr President, I support the adoption of the G4100 agenda. The opinion is also in favour of the G4.101 agenda, provided that the second paragraph is deleted. I call for the rest of the agenda to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u48	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u49	Having been accepted by the Government, the G4100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Does Senator Rauti agree with the rewording of the G4.101 agenda proposed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u50	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u51	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. There is an invitation to withdraw agendas from G4.102 to G4.105, otherwise the opinion is against it. Senator Mallegni, will you withdraw them?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u52	Yes, Mr President, I shall withdraw them.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the examination of the agenda referred to in Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u54	Mr President, I call for the G5100 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u55	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u56	Senator Mallegni, do you intend to withdraw the agenda G5.100?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u57	Yes, Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u58	Let us turn to the discussion of the agenda referred to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the presenters to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u59	Mr President, I shall withdraw the agenda for G6100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u60	We shall now proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to in Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u61	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal of the G7100 agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it. I support the adoption of agendas G7.101, G7.102, G7.103, G7.104 and G7.105 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u62	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u63	There is therefore an invitation to withdraw the G7100 agenda, tabled by Senator Marilotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u66	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, in view of the absence of Senator Marilotti, I shall take the G7100 agenda and withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u67	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G7,101, G7,102, G7,103, G7,104 and G7,105 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to in Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u68	Mr President, I welcome the inclusion of the G10.100 agenda, provided that at the end of the commitment the formula is inserted in line with the budgetary balance of the public sector. I am in favour of the G10.101 and G10.102 agendas. I give a favourable opinion on the G10.103 agenda, provided that the words "obligation" are expunged in the undertaking and that the text is therefore reworded in a correct grammatical way: "to consider the possibility of providing for the adoption of instruments for companies operating in strategic sectors and in public administration"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I am in favour of the G10.104 agenda. I give a favourable opinion on the G10.105 agenda, provided that the wording is included in the commitment: "compatible with the balance of public finances".
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u69	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u70	Senator Rauti, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G10.100?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u71	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u72	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G10.100 (text 2), G10.101 and G10.102 will not be put to the vote. Senator Rauti, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G10.103?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u73	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u74	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G10.103 (text 2) and G10.104 will not be put to the vote. Senator Binetti, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G10.105?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u75	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u76	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G10.105 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the agenda referred to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u77	Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G11.100, I am calling for a withdrawal or otherwise I am voting against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u78	Senator Mallegni, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u79	Mr President, I am withdrawing the agenda for the G11,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u80	We shall now proceed to the examination of the agenda referred to in Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u81	Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G12,100, I am calling for a withdrawal or otherwise I am voting against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u82	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u83	Senator Mallegni, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u84	Mr President, I am withdrawing the agenda for the G12,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u85	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u88	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the absolute impossibility of booking any kind of medical examination, including anti-Covid vaccinations, the site of the Region that is unattainable for days and the data of all users at the mercy of unknown criminals, interested only in demanding who knows what kind of ransom. The hacker attack of these days to the health system of the Lazio Region is the plastic demonstration of how urgent it is to define a national policy of cybernetic security, also because the experience teaches that the cybernetic incursions to a Country frequently hit nerve aspects of the Country itself (airport systems, banks, electric turbines), as well as large companies of the private sector, blocked in their operation and put under blackmail through millionaire extortions. For example, the case of telematics manipulation to the detriment of the largest Swedish supermarket chain, which has been forced to close over 800 stores for days, is recent. Or the hacker attack by the Russian Revil group on thousands of US companies, which has tilted tens of thousands of computers around the world. These are fitting examples, which make it clear how necessary it is for our country to have a suitable tool to protect the essential functions of the State from cyber threats, raising the level of data protection and control systems. To date it is estimated that Italian companies suffer an average of €7 billion of damage every year due to digital attacks and only a few weeks ago we learned with dismay from Minister Colao's words that at least 95% of the platforms that our public administration uses are not safe. That's why the creation of a cybersecurity agency is no longer postponed. We urgently need an effective instrument to defend the strategic sectors of our national security against the dangers posed by increasing computer piracy, in order to protect us from possible aggressions from other countries or from destabilizing and anti-democratic forces. The Cybersecurity Agency must respond to two main missions: first of all to the so-called cyber-resilience, i.e. the consolidation of cooperation for the purposes of cyber security with all strategic operators operating in the field of telecommunications, energy, transport, defence, space and economy, on whose integrity depends the functioning of the country system. Secondly, the Agency should act as a national coordination centre for investments in cyber security. In essence, we can count on a body able to connect small and large companies, capable of involving universities and research and to strengthen the industry of the sector making it waterproof to hostile infiltrations, also by foreign countries. The Agency that we are going to set up with today's vote avoids the overlapping of tasks with the intelligence sector; it is placed under the direct responsibility of the President of the Council, therefore it is not necessarily subject to secrecy constraints. It becomes a fast, slim-down body, adapted to the complexity of the challenge, able to carry out a 360 degree coverage and is virtuous, because it provides for a structured and continuous partnership between public and private actors, working together in the framework of a genuine national security strategy. Moreover, the creation of a national agency will also have positive effects from an economic point of view; in fact, by effectively protecting our cybernetic space, we make Italy more attractive even for domestic and foreign investors. It is therefore appropriate to say that the restart of Italy also passes from here, from a national agency able to secure the country also from the cybernetic point of view. We are strongly convinced of the need to accelerate the processes of digitalization of society and public administration, in order to modernise the country; at the same time we are aware of the strong risks associated with possible cyber attacks on institutions and individuals. Moreover, our public administration is about to move all its data to a national cloud, i.e. to a digital storage space that exposes us to further, possible attacks. Therefore, the need to protect the country from the cyber threat is one of the most sensitive issues, for us as for any modern democracy. This is a matter of national security and, at the same time, of foreign policy. We are, in fact, in a historical phase in which several countries, from Russia to China, aim to gain a geopolitical advantage through their technological supremacy. Once geopolitics had a significant influence on technology, today the opposite happens: the ability to equip itself with innovative technologies attributes a strategic advantage in terms of the exercise of power. Just look at what effect is having on international balances the Chinese predominance of 5G, i.e. the new fifth generation digital network of support to mobile phones. That is why we need to pay particular attention to the concept of technological sovereignty, and we need to move quickly within the European Union, so as to fill the gap that exists in the area of new technologies and to have real technological sovereignty at European level, so that we can protect our businesses, our economy and our values and determine our strategic autonomy, that is, the possibility of acting alone to deal with possible aggressions. Cyber attacks are a potentially deadly threat to every democratic system, because they risk bringing down essential sectors of a country: power plants, water supplies, landfills of waste; in other words, all the vital systems of a country. That is why we need a common vision of cyber-defense at national and European level: exactly what we are trying to do with this decree-law, with which we adhere to European standards and we are equipped with a kind of shield of defence against digital aggression. At the same time, we also send a message to the outside world, to those countries from which most cyber attacks come. Let's say loud and clear that Italy is firmly determined not to let itself be checked. In essence, Mr President, technology is changing pace: it brings with it advantages, but also risks, and it is necessary that we use ourselves accordingly, also and above all at a stage such as the current one, in which a profound interrelation between our everyday life and information technology is achieved. We are gradually entrusting much of our very existence to technology: we have a digital identity with which we can access a whole range of services from our PC. We can now do anything with our mobile phone, so many of our sensitive and sensitive information is contained within complex computer systems, so that the personal data of a subject is increasingly attractive, unfortunately also for hackers and cyber criminals. That is why cyber security and data protection are no longer just an abstract concept, but are about the lives of all of us, our daily lives. The whole society is undergoing profound changes: large institutions such as the school, the National Health Service, the public administration, as well as the productive economic world, in recent years are increasingly using digital, from smart working to the green pass, from distance teaching to telemedicine, all tools of great utility, but at the same time exposing us to unimaginable risks so far. That is why there is a need for adequate protection tools such as the National Agency for Cybernetic Security, which represents a new piece of that Italy that we are building with the Government Draghi, modern and efficient, which aims at innovation and new technologies, but capable at the same time of protecting the rights of citizens and citizens, so that tomorrow's Italy begins already today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u91	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to case or fate, ladies and gentlemen, it is unique that today we are dealing with a measure on national architecture, cybersecurity and the establishment of the National Security Agency, and coincidence wants this to happen after a cyber attack on Lazio's Data Processing Centre (CED), which has put the region's health on hold. Let's start from the news to go further: I want to emphasize that until August 13 you will not be able to book other vaccines in the hubs of Lazio, while the mannaia of the green pass of 6 August is in front of us and you are going to shoot down on all those who are leaving; and we do not know if it is only the beginning. [[Applause]] Just read today's newspapers: fear, silence and the idea that there is blackmail. In short, we do not know if it is only the beginning and if this attack wants to get to another and hit other wider goals or if health care is the real goal; who knows. Surely the situation is serious - not from today - and it is necessary - not from today - the establishment of the Agency for cybersecurity. We of Brothers of Italy are aware that this represents only the first step and for three years - both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate - with all the tools available, we have asked the establishment of this Agency, as well as an organic strategy on cybersecurity and a cybernetic strengthening in various sectors (health, productive, industrial and public administration) also for individual citizens, who are all users of cyberspace. Therefore, long before the subject of digital transition was included in the context of the PNRR, Brothers of Italy requested, with all the tools available, the establishment of the Agency and stressed the need for resilient networks. We have repeatedly denounced the delay in this area and the need for a national security guarantee aimed at digital sovereignty. It has been since September 2020 that the Government has made a commitment that it has not kept. We have dragged ourselves so far with a guilty, unjustifiable and serious delay, also because - as is known - with the growth of the networks also increased the risk of violations and therefore the cyber domain (the so-called fifth dimension) has become the new frontier and the line of confrontation at geopolitical level. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not escape you that exploring cyberspace means entering an operational theatre. After the traditional domains (air, land and sea) the fourth (space) and the fifth (cyber) have been added, which decides on global security. It is no coincidence that at the last NATO summit, in which the new cyber defence policy was approved, the cyber threat has been equated with other types of attack that are sufficient to activate the famous Article 5 of the Treaty, which also involves the other Allied countries to intervene. It is clear to everyone that we are in an increasingly interconnected world not only because of the pandemic and that this increase leads to a surge in the risk of hacking and a threat of increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks with various objectives, such as subtracting data for predatory purposes and stealing intellectual property and identity, but also - attention - much more ambitious objectives, such as manipulating information, damaging infrastructure and blocking service delivery, not to mention the proselytism of violent radicals that is being done online and industrial and military espionage. This is the real trenches. Evidently, it has not been enough in the annual report of our Services, in which the criticality in computer security has been underlined. The vulnerability and permeability of the networks are now known and, when they were said to be so, cyber attacks in both qualitative and quantitative terms were increasing at the same time. I also remember the alarm launched, not least, by Minister Colao, who said that over 95% of public administration servers are obsolete and at risk. I repeat: over 95%. There was also a surge of attacks between 2009 and 2020. But who's counting? Did the government count them? No. Today we all cry for what happened to the Lazio Region, but it seems a little late to tear our clothes, because the theme of national security is not born today, but it is an emergency that has been imposed for a long time. The dedicated Agency was a necessity and an inescapable opportunity, which comes late: there is nothing more opportune and nothing later. [[Applause]] That's the point. This is the fault that we blame you today, because the governments have brought us here and you cannot accuse us of obstructionism. We have been cooperative and proactive - more than ten agendas of the day have just been received by Brothers of Italy - but the guilty delay with which the Agency is born is unforgivable. Why the delay? I want something, and I need to remind anyone who might have a short memory. In fact, today we all realize that there is a cyber risk, but we already knew it and we knew it well. I would like to remind you that the European directive is from 2016 and that in 2017 Italy announced the establishment of the Agency, but it was not there. I would like to point out that the draft budget law contained the Agency at some point, which then disappeared in the final version. Do you remember that we also questioned the competent minister? Do you remember that this argument was one of the three cornerstones on which the Count II Government fell? Short memory, short memory [[Applause]] , but we refresh it, because the delay is yours and it is a serious fault, especially today. These delays are yours, they are a responsibility, because we are talking about attacks that can lead to the collapse of a system; we are talking about the new systemic challenge and fundamental assets. Here the challenge is not only the reservation of vaccines, although very important; here the challenge is geopolitical, it is geostrategic. Dear colleagues, dear representative of the Government, our abstention is therefore a lesson to your delay, it is certainly not to question the validity, necessity, urgency and importance of this Agency. Attention, however, because the challenge is high and important and does not respond to a strategic challenge with a political wheelchair. So be the Agency: do it now, do it well and make it work. In any case, the delay with which we arrive today is yours and it is a responsibility from which no one will be able to meet you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u94	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, the hacking of the health data of the Lazio Region puts this debate of ours in a situation of dramatic and close topicality. Some Members have noted this and there is no doubt, therefore, that Parliament is talking about something that the country is looking at with extreme attention and concern. That it is necessary to run on decisions concerning cybersecurity are saying this in many these days. This was said by the Delegated Authority in a recent interview, as did President Zingaretti in a statement and here I allow myself to open and close a parenthesis. I think you have never heard me say a word of controversy in this House about Covid-19 or about the situations that concern him: I never did it by choice; not because it could not be useful at times, but I did not. That today, therefore, on a decree of this urgency, on a fact that could happen to anyone - who has understood how cyber attacks work, in fact, understands that the weak point of the network could be anyone - we talk about it as a matter of political controversy, and I address my colleague Agussori, frankly I do not think it is up to the issue. [[Applause]] This need to run, Mr President, is not that Parliament had not transposed it before. In the Defence Committee, we recently concluded a very detailed survey of cyber-related issues. We have started from the defence and security profiles, but we have expanded - of course for this matter - to foreign affairs, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Research. We have also heard large companies, because the problem is not just about the public sector. Mr President, this has led to a great deal of alarm. In the hearings we held, the exponential increase in cyber attacks was highlighted, further increased in the Covid period, for smart working and for the situations that were being created. The data is impressive. The issue related to the risk of health data, which we are highlighting today for what concerns the Lazio Region, in the Defence Commission had already been emphasized by Dr. Nunzia Ciardi, director of the service of the Postal Police, who made a brilliant audition, very interesting. In addition to highlighting the increase in crimes, he told us the story - which is emerging today - of a German woman, who died because a cyber attack actually blocked a hospital and, when she arrived in the emergency room, could not intervene, but she did not have time to arrive at another hospital. We are therefore talking about risks not only for resources and for the economy, but for life: this is the gravity of the situation. It has also been pointed out that Ireland has also been attacked by the health system, precisely because the issue of health, which is so important to each of us, becomes a particularly sensitive one. At the end of the work carried out in the Commission, a final resolution was unanimously voted on which highlighted a series of commitments, which concern the defence and the need for international links, and it has developed, as addresses to the Government, some of the issues we are discussing today, including the need to have a single authority, must deal with public services, but also with private ones, and with training and highly qualified staff, because we are talking about a subject with such a rapid evolution that, if we are not in step with the times, the so-called bad guys become much stronger than we are. From this point of view, it is important that a provision on which the House has worked has come to the Senate today. I agree with the positive comments I have heard from many colleagues on the improvements made to the House, both by specifying the boundaries of the Agency and by extending the role of Parliament. Objectively, however, the Senate has had a very short time to deal with the subject at our examination. It was important, however, that the Commission had this in-depth analysis. The Agency has a legal personality under public law, is endowed with regulatory, administrative, patrimonial, organizational, accounting and financial autonomy, and will have the task of playing the role of National Authority, as a colleague of Forza Italia recalled before, implementing a centralization of the functions and competences that until now were distributed between entities and Ministries: this was the main fragility, because a unitary response is necessary and the answers cannot be fragmented. In the hearing of the Delegated Authority, which was held at the Chamber, the Undersecretary Gabrielli has remembered - and some interventions have found it - as in reality Germany has moved already in 1991, creating an Agency that today has 1,200 staff units. In France, a similar agency was established in 2009. I say this because I have also heard Mrs Rauti say that it is all the government's fault, or at least the last governments' fault. I would remind you that since 1991 there have been governments that have also been members of those who are in Brothers of Italy today. I say this because, if we want to take these matters seriously, since then we will vote almost unanimously, with some abstentions, perhaps it would be good to avoid political distinctions, otherwise we cannot really understand the matter. At this point, the need for a single authority was identified. At the beginning the Military Authority was identified at the Presidency of the Council, then thought was given to the Security Information Department (DIS). Today we finally identify the tool that I consider correct, because we need an agency that creates software and hardware, but that is a point of reference both for the public and for the private. From this point of view, the kind of structuring that is given to this agency convinces me a lot, because the problems that had arisen in a first hypothesis in the previous government and that seemed not to outline well the boundaries between the intelligence agencies and the role of this are now clarified: intelligence does intelligence, continues its tasks; it is clear that it is interfaced with the Agency - as will the Ministry of Defence and that of the interior - but it has another role, including the very important one of the production of instruments. In fact, if we want Italy to be safe on this issue, it must also have an autonomous production capacity for systems. Minister Colao - and I see the Undersecretary here for these issues - is concerned because 95% of public administrations are very weak from this point of view and says that they are working on the cloud, where it is important to use the best technologies, which are not Italian at the moment, but whose keys to use must be national. With these statements he makes a very important choice, but we must implement it with productions, capacities and therefore also national industrial developments. The Agency also has this function, in addition to being the point where the alarms of the attacks arrive, which were previously at the Ministry of Economic Development (Mise), with an extremely small staff, while now there will be the possibility to implement it significantly. This is a crucial theme for the future of any country and for the security of the economy, development, growth, but also of life, as demonstrated by the history of that poor German lady. The cultural change that we must make is fundamental, because when we receive an attack, we are already late. The real theme of cybersecurity is in fact how to prevent and concerns safety rather than security, because we need to prevent it. When it comes to security, it is always important to prevent it; it is also important for the armed forces, but for cybersecurity it becomes fundamental, because, when a breach is opened, the risk becomes truly generalized. 18.43 p.m. (Following PINOTTI). I shall end by saying that we are firmly in favour of the measure, convinced that this instrument is important, but also knowing that it is the beginning of a road map that must provide for the safety of public administration, education and training (because from school it is important to understand the risks), investment, recruitment, international collaborations and also the adaptation of the national and international political and legal framework. The theme, in fact, will also be how these crimes are pursued when hackers are unidentified foreigners, but they do cause terrifying damage to the economy or security of a nation. We are therefore facing a path that begins, but certainly does not end with today; but today we decide something that is necessary and important. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u97	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, we are finally about to dismiss this measure. The facts of these last hours tell us that we have arrived late and that the controversy with the former President Conte was pretentious, because he himself had proposed serious reasoning on these issues. The facts of these hours also tell us that we must quickly recover the lost time and make the Agency for National Cybersecurity operational. Colleagues and colleagues, it was unfortunately already written. I went to read the pages of a book, "War without limits." The art of asymmetrical war between terrorism and globalization is written at the end of the 1990s by two Chinese colonels, political commissioners of the Chinese army - the preface in Italian is by General Fabio Mini - who had predicted attacks such as the Twin Towers, analyzing the new war scenarios in the key of asymmetrical wars and explaining terrorism and its techniques; asymmetrical wars are conducted through media manipulation, the disturbance of the stock markets, the spread of computer viruses, the actions of piracy on the web and the manipulation of voting. Today we take dramatic note of these new war scenarios. I understand the president of the Lazio Region, Nicola Zingaretti, when he says that the cyber attack in the virtual system managed by LAZIOcrea is an act of terrorism. Yes, it's terrorism, even though computer pirates have demanded ransom. Think of the effects caused, the total blocking of vaccination reservations and the hospital visits to the ASLs that are still; the system also serves for the management of contracts and the payment of the stamp for vehicles and regional taxes. If until some time ago hackers were stealing business secrets from blackmail, extortion or to sell them to competitors, what is certain is that digitalization has had a strong acceleration with the pandemic and therefore today to secure the data is absolutely fundamental for the security of the country. Under attack can end all institutions, institutional ones first, public and private companies. After the hacker attack on the Lazio Region, in fact, counter-terrorism fears that other institutional sites can be violated. In 2020 - the experts tell us - there were 156 episodes of cybercrime or cyberespionage per month; this year cyber attacks have blocked hospitals, pipelines and water purification plants in the city. What is happening in Lazio is the plastic demonstration of how important it is for the State to adopt the best possible solutions to prevent the occurrence of similar episodes. The vulnerability of computer systems is a risk that the public administration cannot afford to run, because it would subject it to the danger of slowing down, when not a real paralysis of the administrative action, and can also be a source of very important damage in the face of the violation of personal data and of their disclosure or commercialization. The Covid emergency has then shown that a greater use of computer tools and network connections amplifies the chances of attack. As stated in the report on Information Policy for Security 2020, the pandemic was also a key event in terms of impact on society, on technologies in use to the population, on the digitisation of activities and services, as well as on the consequent widening of the cyber-risk area for the individual and for the entire country system. The threats to the safety and functioning of networks and installations, as well as to the continuity of supply, have thus become more topical and concrete. Overall, it has been pointed out that hostile actors have exploited in the pandemic period the massive use of agile work and the consequent accessibility from the Internet of digital resources of Ministries and companies of strategic profile and critical infrastructures, become even more target of hostile campaigns. Colleagues and colleagues, cyber security is one of the actions foreseen by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan transmitted by the Government to the European Commission on 30 April 2021 and finally approved on 13 July 2021. In particular, cybersecurity is one of seven investments in the digitisation of public administration. You have heard Mrs Pinotti remember the statements made by Minister Colao: 95% of public administration servers are not safe. It's true, you have to run. We need to develop protection mechanisms quickly, appropriately and more and more closely. Other countries have invested in computer security for years, such as France and Germany. It is therefore urgent to intervene by strengthening the system of defence against this kind of crime, which can be particularly insidious and cause considerable damage. The establishment of the National Cybersecurity Agency, the Interministerial Committee on Cybersecurity and, within the latter, the cybersecurity core seems to be a step forward in modernising the national security system. For this reason, I declare the vote in favour of the senators and senators of Free and Equal-Ecosolidal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u100	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this measure and, of course, we also add some considerations to the matter. In a book recently published on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of Ronald Reagan's inauguration at the White House, a biography of the American President written by journalist Gennaro Sangiuliano, one of the final chapters speaks of the victory in World War III, which was attributed to Reagan. Some might wonder what this Third World War was. It was a war. At the time, there were still the classic blocs that led to the United States and the Soviet Union, which was still so. The political and technological offensive of Ronald Reagan and the United States - then the technological frontier was the space shield - was one of the reasons, at least according to history, that put the Soviet Union no longer in a position to withstand the cost, fatigue and technological commitment of the United States' action. The victory at the table, which did not result in death or victims, of this Third World War, with the announcement of the space shield, which would block possible missile attacks from the East, contributed, together with other events, to the course of history that then we all lived and that today led, even with a thousand problems in the world, to a different setup. Today there is a war going on and it has already been described by many colleagues: it is the war of technology, with cybercrime attacks, which are underway. I don't want to engage with the current situation, because honestly the attack in Lazio was serious but it's not the first one; I want to understand, however, because I remember that even the INPS some time ago took it out on the hackers [[Applause]] So I want to know if there are real dumbasses and fake hackers or real hackers and fake dumbasses, because we haven't figured out how the INPS thing ended yet. I read today reports of employees who would have access to pornographic sites that contained viruses; I don't know. When we have the Agency, it will also be able to distinguish the technological damage from the attacks, so I do not judge. We are in favour of the National Cybersecurity Agency, because we believe that the defence of digital borders is as important today as the defence of physical borders, so we believe that it is absolutely necessary to equip ourselves. [[Applause]] On the physical borders, we also call on the Government to pay greater attention: I would not want to focus on the Cybersecurity Agency to have let go of the physical border guard a little bit, but this is another story. [[Applause]] We therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to equip ourselves with this instrument. Today the interventions of colleagues of the Forza Italia Group have not implied some critical issues. Senator Mallegni said that the Department of Public Service should also have an involvement and I listened to Senator Binetti talk about health care. Moreover - I tell the government - databases and attacks are possible in all areas. The attack we are talking about is preventing you from having a green pass or booking vaccines; no defense structure has been attacked, because the data are everywhere. Today, sometimes, we exist more in digital perception than in physical perception. It seems like a paradox, but it is so; therefore, it is absolutely necessary to act in this direction. Today the world can be blocked, because, being connected, just block the connection to paralyze it. I thank the members of the Government present; perhaps the commitments did not allow the member of the Government who is Delegated Authority to attend this debate, but it would have been useful. First, Senator Mallegni wondered what Parliament had to do with it and whether someone replaced it with Parliament. All governments have very much replaced parliaments, but it is not just a problem at this stage. The Delegated Authority has been established (and this is a merit of the current Government): by Delegated Authority is a member of the Government that oversees the activities of the Services. One of the reasons for the difficulties of the previous government was that Count, for reasons never explained clearly in public, never wanted to delegate the powers that the President of the Council in the last instance always retains, because he is always such and remains the highest authority of government. He didn't want to delegate those powers. Today there is a delegated authority and I believe that, in addition to the ministries represented here (of economic activity, of relations with Parliament and of productive activity), perhaps the Ministries of Defence and the Interior and all those in the front line could have given a gesture of greater attention to Parliament with their presence on the occasion of this vote. [[Applause]] He was rushing, as we all said, and it was late compared to history. I do not retrace here the chronicle, as many have done, on the European directives, on the international demands and on the emergencies of all kinds and types that make this Authority necessary, but perhaps this debate seemed underestimated and done in these glimpses of parliamentary season in which we try to put ourselves in parole with the backward. We hope that this Authority and this structure will work well. It will not be easy, because it must be connected with the ordinary work of the security services, which remain competent for all their functions, which perform well, with the other military authorities, defence, and with all other ministerial authorities. In the core many are represented and will say theirs, but some are absent, so it is a complex world. The treatment of staff was also discussed. We, who will be the caste par excellence, are surrounded by castes. I too would have preferred that, instead of giving the treatment of the staff of the Bank of Italy to these employees of the Authority, the employees of the Bank of Italy should be deprived of the treatment they receive. Instead, we who are the caste and are surrounded by castes have a motivation: to attract adequate professionalism, we also need appropriate economic treatment. We act late and we must intervene: we need intelligence, as Senator Aimi mentioned in his speech just now; we do not set up an office with 300 people chosen at random, but we will need skills, because the activities of electronic crime that must be faced by this Authority require speed. Destructive intervention is rapid. One of the criticisms made is whether a slightly elephantic structure, with many connections, will be able to act in time. She won't have to be the only one to do the answers, but the services, defense or even health care facilities will have to do it, as we have seen. The Authority will have to fertilize in all the various sectors this awareness and this necessity of defense of the technological boundaries, so we will look also with a favorable vote, given with sincere predisposition, how this will work. It will not be easy, because it interacts with many organisms, but it is an opportunity not to be missed, because the famous National Recovery and Resilience Plan of over 200 billion also invests in technological security, in the modernization of networks and therefore also in cybersecurity. We must therefore take the lead, use these funds and make the country safer, but we also need to be careful. In these days Alessandro Sallusti wrote it in an editorial, saying that it is right that this agency be made and that many, worried by this Big Brother, distract themselves in front of the Big Brother daily who buys our lives. Just order a pizza with delivery and they have everything of our life and our data. We are not talking about Amazon, the note, unpunished and tax-free Amazon, which has just been fined for 746 million [[Applause]] , not because it doesn't pay taxes - there should pay billions - but for privacy violations. We cannot give up booking a food with a mobile phone or shopping at a distance, but I believe that here too is a bit like the story of the green pass or vaccines: we care about some things, but we neglect forms of appropriation of our life and our identity that should be regulated. We fight electronic crime, but also electronic impunity, which some Internet giants practice all over the world. [[Applause]] We therefore vote in favour, hoping that this structure will help us defend the country's freedom and security, a defence on modern and innovative borders, but we know that there is still much to do for our freedom and security. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u103	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, many countries are increasingly targeted at cyber attacks these days. Italy is not exempt, indeed our country is among the most vulnerable and therefore among the most affected by insidious, increasingly numerous and diversified computer threats, some put in place by criminal groups, that can demand a ransom or sell on the market the information stolen, and others put in place by state actors, with the aim of stealing sensitive information, for example on therapies, research or patents. Cyberattacks are also on the increase as a result of the digital transition, the strong development and implementation of artificial intelligence, the Internet of things, 5G technology and the strong increase in Internet traffic caused by Covid, which forced millions of people, workers and students to work remotely and study with distance learning (DAD), resulting in an explosion of cyberattacks. Cybersecurity has thus become a top priority for the state, institutions, companies and individuals, who must absolutely reduce their degree of vulnerability. I remember when the Copasir, always attentive to the issues of cyber security and its implications on national security, with the 5G report issued to Parliament in December 2019 emphasized the strong risks with particular reference to the use of Chinese equipment and technology in Italian infrastructures. [[Applause]] It was an appeal that for several months remained unheard by the previous government. It is therefore no coincidence that cyber security is one of the actions envisaged by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. In line with the PNRR, however, with several years of delay compared to Germany and France, which have already operated for a long time a consolidated structure that works to defend their countries from cyber threats, we welcome this decree-law, which defines the national architecture of cybersecurity and also gives rise to a national cyber agency in Italy, which determines a crucial step for national security in our country. This rationalization leads to having from twenty-three competent subjects, but dispersed, who spoke on this subject, to a single public subject, who will be the interlocutor in Europe and in the international scenario on cyber themes. It will be a structured agency, initially equipped with three hundred staff units, which by 2027 could even reach eight hundred. They will be highly professional figures, subject to continuous training, able to reach the levels of hardware and software production necessary to equip our country with technological autonomy and make us competitive in the international field. The measure comes to us armored by the House, where it has been the subject of not many modifications, but some important ones that have seen the decisive contribution of the League, such as the one that has eliminated ambiguity and risks of overlapping the competences of the new Agency with those of our police forces, that will continue the investigations on cybercrime... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u104	Senator De Siano, I invite you to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u105	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...like those of our defense, which will continue to counter attacks on military infrastructure with cyber-defense and like those of our intelligence, DIS and AISE and AISI agencies, on gathering information. What we are considering is an important measure, which is clearly distinguished from the bad and opaque project that last November's Conte-a Government was inappropriately proposing in the draft budget bill 2021 [[Applause]] and which assumed the establishment of a foundation on cybersecurity, embedded in the perimeter of the DIS, but with the prediction of a statute of which there was no content. With this agency there will be an acceleration of the change of paradigm, which aims at resilience, risk prevention and threat, with the development of safety tools, which add to the tools of repression and containment, so-called security, which will see on the one hand more and more investments in digital skills and which, on the other hand, will see the State protect public systems from cyberattacks, thus ensuring the provision of services fundamental to citizens. Today, therefore, we need to speed up the establishment and operation of the Agency, because we have more than 90% of the public administration servers that are not in safe condition, not to mention that some are cholabrodians and therefore we are not sure. Moreover, the violent, invasive and criminal hacker attack from abroad, perhaps from Germany, but with probable triangulation, which since last Sunday night has hit and infected the servers of the CED of the Lazio Region, paralyzing also the portal "Salute Lazio" and the vaccination network, blocking the reservations of the citizens, shows how it is by now indifferent to make operational the cyber defenses, also because the damages are very serious. The region is still hostage and maybe it will be for days and the anti-terrorist prosecutors are investigating it. It may not be possible for hackers to have access to the health history of millions of Lazio citizens, but it seems certain that the data has been encrypted and rendered unservable, including backup. Unfortunately, Lazio is not the first attack to ascertain the vulnerability of the health sector, which is one of the most delicate targets in pandemic time. I remember how in March last year, in full lockdown, hackers had targeted the "San Raffaele" of Milan and then, in April, the hospital "Spallanzani" of Rome, not to mention the attacks not made public. I would like to make one last point, before the conclusions, with reference to the Copasir, from which - I recall - I and my colleague Mr Volpi, then President, resigned, inviting all political forces to do the same, to reason on the recomposition of the Committee [[Applause]] , so that it was consistent with what Law No.124 of 2007, in the belief that it was necessary, then as well as today, to proceed necessarily to an update of the same law governing the information system for the security of the Republic and the new doctrine of secrecy. Well, in the decree-law that we are converting there are - indeed! - direct or indirect amendments to Law No 124 of 2007, because we extend or otherwise modify the scope of the Committee's competences, because the mode of action of the Delegated Authority is changed, which previously had only a relationship with the Agencies of the intelligence sector or in any case with the security system and, thirdly, because the historical and technological moment has changed, since the law was passed. So the League believes that a coupon to Law No. 124 is no longer different. [[Applause]] , so that the guarantee of the equal presence of the members of the Copasir, which would be appropriate to become proportional to the forces of majority and minority government, applies not only to the opposition, but also to the same majority, which in the future must be able to be able to choose the President in secret vote, among several candidates. [[Applause]] I conclude by confirming the League's vote in favour of this measure and of course wishing all the players who will be protagonists in the future institution of the National Cybersecurity Agency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u108	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, in dealing with this measure on the urgent provisions on cybersecurity, the definition of the national cybersecurity architecture and the establishment of the National Cybersecurity Agency, we cannot fail to see how late we are today; at the same time, the measure is also a further step in the more general need to develop, in the short term, appropriate and increasingly stringent mechanisms for cyber-protection. For years, Europe asked for a certain, defined and united interlocutor on the issues of cybersecurity, but our country presented itself with 23 competent subjects who spoke on this subject. A choice of cyber-resilience has been made (so structures, professionalism and training), necessary to equip the country with a technological autonomy that allows to reach levels of hardware and software production that make us competitive in the international scenario. In chief, there is a public entity, the National Cybersecurity Agency, which dialogues with public administrations and private entities, with the task not only of defining safety standards applied to the various contexts, but also of coordinating possible overlaps with the military and intelligence world. Not only can Italy not afford to give up digital progress, avoiding using technologies due to potential threats, but it is also called upon to use and manage them at its best, in full awareness of the risks, in order to enjoy the benefits. Risks to cybersecurity also impact a country's economic and social progress. The creation of an ad hoc structure, with the management in the hands of the public actor, is now improcrastinable. The measure we are going to vote on is the completion of a process of defining and recomposing functions and tasks related to the cybersecurity sector, as a sensitive and yet too vulnerable area. In 2019, as highlighted during the hearings on the decree-law under consideration in the Chamber of Deputies, attacks on our critical infrastructure increased by 246 percent and even more the process of digital transition and the massive increase in network traffic after the first wave of Covid forced millions of people and workers in the world, inevitably bringing with them an explosion of cyber attacks. At the center of recent news reports there is also what happened in the night between Saturday and Sunday before the computer systems of the Lazio Region, in particular at the data processing center, the system that manages the entire regional computer infrastructure. As soon as we realized the problem, in order to avoid the proliferation of the attack and the possible subtraction of data, the technicians of the Region have disabled the system, in fact blocking all the regional IT services, the most important of which at this moment concerns the management of the vaccination campaign. However, as inevitably... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u109	There's a bit too loud. Let's let the colleague intervene more quietly, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u110	GARRUTI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. However, as an inevitable consequence, since Sunday the site of the Lazio Region and all sites related to regional IT services are unreachable. The regional platform for the booking of vaccination appointments is blocked; this means, in other words, that since August 13 it will not be possible to book vaccinations. If the service is not reactivated, at the same time it is impossible to book specialist visits, the planned screenings are interrupted, the citizens and the Lazio enterprises cannot obtain different health and building permits, just because all the non-health information services that usually refer to the Lazio Region are also blocked. This incident therefore shows how much the surface of vulnerability has grown and how important and fundamental this matter is. Giving our country new legislation introducing counter-measures aimed at strengthening our computer defences and preventing attacks on infrastructures of national interest is more priority than ever. This need has increased... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u111	As I said before, my colleague would like you to at least not disturb him if you do not wish to listen to him. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u112	GARRUTI (M5S). Thank you, President. This need has increased in recent years, also in the light of measures to ensure secure cloud infrastructures and data processing centres with high quality standards, in the direction of increasing interoperability and information sharing. In addition, cyber security is one of the instruments provided for in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan transmitted by the Government to the European Commission on 30 April 2021 and finally approved on 31 July 2021. In this context, cybersecurity is one of the seven investments in the digitisation of public administration, the first axis of intervention of component 1 (Digitization, innovation and security in public administration) within mission 1 (Digitization, innovation, competitiveness, culture and tourism). If, on the one hand, the defence and national and cybernetic security pervade and also influence economic development, on the other hand, the privacy of millions of people and health care, as in the specific case of the Lazio Region, of the unfortunately not excluded double extortion (cryption, on the one hand, and subtraction of data, on the other), must push us to approve today in the Assembly a measure that goes in this direction and that, among other things, establishes a special Agency, that will play the role of national authority for cybersecurity, in order to ensure a unitary and coordinated action in this field, in order to continue and complete the road undertaken with the so-called perimeter of cyber security. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u113	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u116	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, yesterday the funerals of Professor Giuseppe De Donno, former chief of pneumology of the hospital in Mantua, were held in Mantua, known for being the pioneer of experimental anti-Covid therapy based on the transfusion of hyperimmune plasma. A few months ago, at the request of the 5 Star Movement, we had invited the professor to the Senate Health Commission to present the results of his studies. I still remember with which pride the professor, in that place, claimed the role of his team in the management of the first phase of the fight against this pandemic. I also remember, however, the debate that was born at that time on the validity or not of this therapy, triggering a media and political war, which contrasted vaccines - which, in reality, are instruments of prevention - with therapies, especially home care, which instead are tools of cure. In these months, science, through our doctors and researchers, has given its best, taking giant steps to understand this new disease and combat it in the most effective way. Since the beginning of this pandemic, the approach to Covid patients has completely changed: we have learned that we need to intervene as soon as possible and early treatment with plasma of immune subjects and monoclonal antibodies has certainly been an effective weapon. Thanks to our experience, other European and world countries have had more weapons to treat their patients. Professor De Donno has certainly contributed to the development of this knowledge. He was an excellent doctor, esteemed by his colleagues, his patients, a brilliant mind, a reserved and frank man, certainly not aware of the media clamor that was reserved for him, nor do I think he ever wanted to become a topic of political confrontation. To Professor De Donno I say thank you for your contribution, for having lived closely the drama of the Covid and also the rebirth of those who, thanks to his therapy, made it. The sadness for a life that goes out and bitterness for having devoted little attention to home therapies to this day remains in our hearts. For my part, my colleagues in the Commission and all my Group, I express deep sympathy and closeness to your family and your colleagues. This death is an immense pain for us and also a great defeat for not being able to protect and protect those we call heroes, but that we have left alone in the departments to manage workloads that are not tolerable and without psychological support. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u118	You have the right to do so. Moreover, I know that he is speaking on a subject which could have been of concern to the entire Assembly, namely the anniversary of the massacre of the Bologna station.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u119	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, as you mentioned, yesterday was the 41st anniversary of the massacre in Bologna, in which 85 innocent people lost their lives and more than 200 were wounded. After forty-one long years you know only a piece of truth about that horrible terrorist massacre, which is the most serious in republican history. The material executioners, identified in neo-fascist terrorists Valerio Fioravanti, Luigi Ciavardini and Francesca Mambro, have been definitively condemned, but a final trial is under way that sees Paolo Bellini, who is a subject who has been filmed by a tourist on the site of the massacre a few minutes before. In addition to the unfaithful leaders of the Sismi, the then military secret service, such as General Musumeci and Colonel Belmonte, were also condemned, in addition to the caretaker Patience and the great master of the P2 Lycius Gelli loggia, who all together tried to protect the material performers and thus stifle the truth. After forty-one years, President, the senders have not yet been identified and condemned, even if some documents, which have recently magically come back to light, direct the investigations to Licio Gelli and Umberto Ortolani and the P2 environments that would pay large sums to terrorists a few days before the massacre. These investigations are also directed to Federico Umberto D'Amato, who was head of the Department of Private Affairs of the Ministry of the Interior, and to Mario Tedeschi, journalist of the magazine "Il Borghese". Unfortunately, the political inspirers of that attack on the heart of the state and our democracy are still unknown, although it is not difficult to imagine which area they belonged to. Valerio Fioravanti, former baby actor, former militant of the Social Movement, former terrorist of the NAR, executor and/or sender of eight murders, including policemen and magistrates, executor - as I said before - of the massacre of Bologna, for all this he served only eighteen years in prison and about eight in semi-freedom regime. Since 2009 he has been free. During his detention, even more precisely during the hearings of the various trials in which he was accused, he had time to have a son with his partner, also a terrorist, neo-fascist and co-executor of the massacre. Between one murder and the other, between one robbery and the other, he assaulted cinemas that projected Pier Paolo Pasolini's films together with his comrades, or private radios that were interested in politics and made trade union militants or feminist militants talk. To stop fighting for the historical and procedural truth and to think that it has been too long to accept it would be to do a favor to fascists such as Fioravanti, Mambro, Ciavardini and their senders and give it to those who wanted to kill, in terror, our democracy and our freedom. We must not allow it, nor should we forget the blood spilled by helpless and innocent citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u122	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, as I recall, forty-one years after that tragic event, the victims and wounded of the Bologna massacre, I would like to take the opportunity of this speech to say that I appreciated the announcement that yesterday, in Bologna, the Minister for Justice, Mr Cartabia, said that some documents relating to the events of the P2 and other events of those years will be desecrated. However, I would like to say in this House, once again, that we are waiting for a decision taken unanimously during the last parliamentary term by the Committee of Inquiry into the Moro case, of which I was a member together with Senator Giovanardi and other colleagues. We asked for a series of documents which we have read in the confidentiality constraints which the Commission of Inquiry has and which are relevant to the dramatic summer of 1980. We know the truth of justice. The events of that tragic summer first saw the story of Ustica, never really clarified to the end, and then the story of Bologna, for which there is a judicial truth established. However, the documents that we have seen and that the President of the Council of the time, Paolo Gentiloni, assured us would be desecrated and are not included in those about which Minister Cartabia spoke yesterday, are important. Yesterday the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Roberto Fico, spoke of a mystification about these events. Yes, there is a mystification, but in my opinion it is discovered by looking at those cards. The journalist Grignetti, on "La Stampa" has published them years ago, so it is the secret of Pulcinella. The relationships that came from the Middle East in those years make clear the matrix of the story of Ustica and the massacre of Bologna. Those documents completely deny the established judicial truths, on which legends are being built, which I have heard echo in this House even before. I insist that those acts and the famous reports of Colonel Giovannone from Lebanon, which say who did Ustica and who massacres Bologna, denouncing judgments based on non-real facts, should be desecrated. In fact, the real facts and those confidential reports tell another truth, but someone does not want to listen to keep making legends, as we have also heard here this evening. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u123	Senator Pilgrims will also read them.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u124	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-354.ana.u125	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday, August 4, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.28 a.m.
