ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I have asked for the floor under Rule 60 (3) of the Rules of Procedure to clarify more clearly what happened yesterday when I was the protagonist. I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to President Casellati and to the House for the crassness I used on my point of order. Apart from that, I see the shorthand report and I do not know whether the censorship is also recorded in the Minutes. If necessary, I would ask you to include it. Mr President, with regard to the crass gesture that I have made, by extending my arms because I did not have the microphone turned on, I will take responsibility for any disciplinary measures that the Presidency Council may wish to take. But I also want to clarify one aspect. Among the prerogatives of a President of the Senate is the possibility of imposing a whole series of sanctions such as admonition, censorship and removal from the Chamber, but certainly not insulting it. In the phases of yesterday's speech - the shorthand report and the Minutes do not report it and I ask you to insert it - I was apostrophated by the President as a very rude one. This is an insult and, in relation to this, I ask for clarity, because the President can take disciplinary action, but he cannot insult any of the senators. I kindly ask you to act as a liaison with the President of the Senate to come and apologize to Senator Santangelo and avoid doing the same again in the future. I don't think there can be any disciplinary action against the President of the Senate. In common life, the Court of Cassation ruled that this is an insult and condemned it. I hope that the Senate will also consider it so, and that, with the right intellectual honesty that the President of the Senate certainly has, he can come and apologize, so as to restore a balance on the facts that happened yesterday. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u5	I take note of your report, Senator Santangelo. I believe that your words, which at first seemed to me to be excused, may not be so until the end, partly because I believe that the President's sentences were a way of commenting on what you considered to be objectively uneducated behaviour. Since no further comments have been made, the Minutes are hereby approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u7	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2381. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the replies of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government and the votes of the amendments to Articles 1 to 4 of the Decree-Law took place. The amendments to Article 5 were also presented and the rapporteur and the representative of the Government gave their views. At this point we should suspend the sitting or, alternatively, we could proceed with the explanation of the amendments referred to in Article 6 and with the expression of the relevant opinions, so that we gain time. If there are no objections from this House, there is a practice that allows it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u11	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, since there are only a few people in this House, I propose that we proceed with the explanation of the amendments to Rule 6 in order to avoid debates.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u12	I'm suspending work. (The sitting was suspended at 9.42 p.m. and resumed at 9.53 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u15	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my speech, rather than an intervention on the order of business, is a real point of order. A short while ago, we listened to Senator Santangelo's words from the centre-left; we appreciate the apology he made to the Presidency and the House, but we heard serious words about the President, who was accused of insulting a colleague. In addition, Senator Santangelo has requested disciplinary action against the President. I think most people have missed it, because it happened in the first few minutes of the session and I believe that the few senators present have not had the opportunity to listen. In view of this request - which we consider to be serious - for verification and examination of the President's behaviour, I would like to point out, always referring to my colleagues in the centre-left, that yesterday it was broadcast on all the media, on all social media, on all TV and on all the newspapers, a video of what happened just after the vote on the so-called Zan bill, which took over the benches of the centre-right. That video was unmistakably made by the center-left benches and I believe that the fixed positions we have taken easily identify the senator or senator who made that video. [[Applause]] I therefore call on the Presidency to take note of this report and to take all the necessary steps to make possible sanctions against those who have infringed the well-known rule of prohibition to make videos in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u17	Senator Santangelo, what do you want to intervene on? He's already intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u18	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologize if I request the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Tell me what you want to do. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr Augussori, President. No, you can do that at the end of your session. SANTANGELO (M5S). President. - I have not asked for action against President Casellati. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You may speak on the order of business at the end of the sitting. SANTANGELO (M5S). President, I did not ask for them. It seems right to say so in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u19	Senator Santangelo, I'm gonna take your word for it. [[Comments]] I would remind you that we can speak on such matters at the end of the sitting. I would remind you that Amendment 5.2 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.3 tabled by Senators Nugnes and La Mura. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.4, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 5.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.9 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.11, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Abate and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.13 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 518 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 5.25, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PRAYER. Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.26 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.27 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.29 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.30, 5.31 and 5.32 have been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.33, tabled by Senators La Pietra e Nastri, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.34, tabled by Senator Abate and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.35 and 5.36 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.38, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.42, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.45, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.48, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.47 and 5.49 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.50, tabled by Senators La Pietra and Nastri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.51 and 5.52 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.53, tabled by Senator Abate and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.54 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.56 is therefore excluded. Amendments 5.57 and 5.58 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.64, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.65, tabled by Senator Abate and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.66 and 5.67 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,37 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,69 tabled by Senator Abate and other Senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5,70 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.71, tabled by Senator Abate and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.72, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.73 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G5.1 agenda, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u22	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, I would ask you to sign the G5.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u25	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr. President, so do I.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u26	Colleagues, we take note of this, but I would remind you that the request to sign an agenda should be made before its vote. Amendments 5.0.1 and 5.0.3 to 5.05 are unacceptable. Amendment 5.0.2 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u27	Mr President, I rise to explain amendment 6.15 (text 2). We particularly cared about our amending proposal in this area, because we believe that this is a matter of justice within an article on justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u28	Senator Gallone, amendment 6.15 (text 2) was tabled by the Commission and therefore cannot intervene at the stage of illustration. You can, however, speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u29	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to explain the amendments I have tabled to Rule 6. Amendment 6.23 calls for an additional penalty for those who commit the crime referred to in Article 423- bis of the Criminal Code: in our opinion, these persons must also be banned from five to ten years from participation in procurement procedures for public works or the allocation of national or Community funding. This measure is also linked to the proposed amendment to Article 5 which has been rejected. With Amendment 6.32, we also propose that those who cause the death of animals in a fire should be subject to increased penalties.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u31	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u32	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal of amendments 6.2, 6.3, 6.5, 6.7, 6.10, 6.17, 6.19 (text 2), 6.20, 6.21, 6.22, 6.23, 6.25, 6.28, 6.29, 6.39, 6.30 and 6.32, otherwise the opinion is against. I am in favour of amendments 6.9, 6.4 (text3), 6.15 (text 2) and 6.31. Amendments 6.18 and 6.0.2 are partially inadmissible: I call for the rest to be withdrawn in both cases, otherwise I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u33	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u36	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 6.2, 6.10, 6.20, 6.21 and 6.29.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u39	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, I rise to withdraw amendment 6.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u42	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 6.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u43	I take note of that. Amendment 6.2 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 6.9, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.5 and 6.6 have been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.7, tabled by Senators La Pietra and Nastri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.8 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 6.4 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.13, 6.12 and 6.14 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.15 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u46	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Amendment 6.15 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, concerns the need to expunge from the decree-laws the reference to prevention activities, but above all to an increase in prison sentences, as far as civil servants are concerned. In fact, it appeared to us disproportionate in relation to the scope of public responsibilities, which are already subject to precise sanctions provided for in the legislation in force for cases of omission or gross negligence, for which the interpretation of this rule could be very wide, causing the proliferation of unjustified prosecutions against civil servants and, consequently, mayors - especially small communities, internal municipalities or mountain ones - and civil protection workers. We therefore thank you for the sensitivity of the Government, in particular of the Ministry of Justice, in the person of the Undersecretary Sisto, for having accepted our proposal, which came from a cry for help of civil protection workers and mayors. We therefore declare our vote in favour of amendment 6.15 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u47	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 6.15 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.10 and 6.11 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the non-improbable part of amendment 6.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.19 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.20 and 6.21 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.22, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Nastri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.23, tabled by Senators Nugnes and La Mura. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.24 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.25, tabled by Senators La Pietra and Nastri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.26, 6.27, 6.28 and 6.29 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.39, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Nastri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.30, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'more animals'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6.32 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 6.31, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u50	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I am only speaking to the record that my vote on amendment 6.31 was in favour, but I voted against it by mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u51	We note that, Senator Montevecchi. Amendments 6.33 to 6.0.1 cannot be proposed. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.0.2 excluding the second paragraph, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 6.0.2 and amendment 6.0.3 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u52	Mr President, I object or call for the withdrawal of amendments 7.2, 7.3 and 7.0.10; the opinion is in favour of amendments 7.5 (text 2), 7.0.1 (text 2) and 7.0.12 (text 2) and on the agenda G7200.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u53	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u54	Amendment 7.1 has been withdrawn. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.2, tabled by Senators La Mura and Nugnes, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.3, tabled by Senator Auddino and other senators, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.4 has been withdrawn and transformed into the G7200 agenda. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.5 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.7 has been withdrawn. Amendments 7.6 and 7.8 cannot be proposed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G7200 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 7.0.6 and 7.0.8 have been withdrawn. Amendments 7.0.7 and 7.0.0.9 are unacceptable. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.0.00, tabled by Senator Auddino and other senators, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.0.12 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u55	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 8.4 (text 2) and call for the withdrawal of amendment 8.8, otherwise I am against it. I am in favour of the adoption of agendas G8.1 and G8.2 if the latter is reworded by adding, in the part of the undertaking, after the words: "to assess" the words: "to stop while complying with Article 10 of Law No 353 of 2000", I express a favourable opinion on amendment 8.0.1 (text 2) and on coordinating proposals no. 1, 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u56	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u57	Senator Papatheu, do you accept the invitation to reword the agenda G8.2 as indicated by the rapporteur? PAPATHEU (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The agenda was therefore reworded in G8.2 (text 2). Senator Nugnes, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 8.8?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u58	Mr President, since I am very interested in this amendment 8.8, which invites me to withdraw, I think we should consider the need to give the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) the right role to play. In the last legislature, we managed to bring home a very important law, No. 132 of 2016, which established in ISPRA and in all territorial agencies an environmental armed arm as far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned. However, the role of ISPRA is increasingly being put on the margins, although it is unique in Europe (travelling across Europe with the Bicameral Commission of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle, I assure you that ISPRA is an all-Italian excellence). Also for the ecological transition plan, the Ministry did not address ISPRA to have relations, but external agencies, in violation of Law No 132 of 2016, and this is very serious. I wonder why we want to waste this important structure: ISPRA's opinions are becoming less and less binding and the Institute is increasingly being excluded from expressing you. I therefore call on everyone to vote on the very important amendment 8.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u59	Senator Nugnes, as you saw, I did not interrupt it, but in reality for the moment they were talking about amendment 8.4 (text 2) and you could only tell me whether or not you were withdrawing yours. Amendment 8.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.4 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.2 is unacceptable. Amendments 8.3 and 8.7 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.8, tabled by Senators Nugnes and La Mura. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G8.1 and G8.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for coordination No 1 was voted by a simultaneous vote. (The vote was followed). [[Protests]] You didn't make it in time? I shall cancel the vote. I would like to refer again to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the coordinating proposal No 1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for coordination No 2 was voted by a simultaneous vote. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for coordination No 3 was voted by a simultaneous vote. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u62	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, this decree-law is the son of a dramatic summer... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u63	Wait, Senator Laniece, I'd like to assure you of a minimum of attention. Who is not interested can go to the exit (I don't mean the buvette, but, in short, where it wants). Please, Senator Lanièce. LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Thank you, Mr President. I was saying that this decree-law, as we all know, is a consequence of the very dramatic situation that took place this summer. There have been very serious fires throughout the Mediterranean basin. Only in Italy thousands of hectares of land have been smoked, from Sicily to Sardinia, from Calabria to Abruzzo, from Campania to Puglia and Lazio; all this with considerable economic damage, threats to the safety of people and animals and environmental wounds that will be healed not before a few decades. Every attack on the environment is in effect an attack on the foundations of our social contract, especially if, as the numbers say, most fires are of arsonous nature. These criminal phenomena require a consolidation of the instruments for the prevention and control of territories, as well as tougher and more effective sanctions. For this reason, among the many measures introduced, I would like to highlight the amendments to the penal code, the constant updating of regional plans and the fact that the intervention structures are guaranteed adequate operational capacity. It is important for us autonomyists that this new plant, with the introduction of more stringent links between the state plan, the regional plan and the role of the municipalities, should develop without jeopardising the prerogatives of special autonomy, thanks to the safeguard clause approved in the Commission. In fact, I remember how competence over fires, in our autonomous statutes, is primary, therefore directly attributed to our regions with special status. It is regrettable, however, that the Commission has not had the opportunity to make substantial improvements from the point of view of economic resources. In particular, action was needed and needs to be taken in favour of the territories most affected by the fires of last summer, in the field of environmental restoration. I really hope that the resources will be found in the budget law, as is required by one of the approved agendas and as has also been somewhat assured by the competent offices of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. To conclude, Mr President, today we are going to adopt a measure which has the merit of laying the foundations for preventing the next summer from being like the one we have just left behind. At the same time, alongside the improvement of governance, it is necessary to have adequate economic resources for civil protection, fire department, Carabinieri and the Army, engaged in investigation, conflict and relief operations. This applies above all to us in the regions with special status, to our forestry bodies, which have competence over forest fires, and it applies to the territories that have been affected by these dramatic events. That is why I hope that not only with the budget law, but also with the PNRR, as indicated in the measure, the measures to ensure the safety of people, territories, environmental heritage and animals will become structural. It is with this hope that I will announce the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u64	[[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u67	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the summer of this year the great fires in Italy almost tripled over the previous year. This is a disturbing fact, which means in concrete terms that tens of thousands of hectares of woods and Mediterranean scrub have been destroyed, incinerated by flames, with charred trees and olive groves and destroyed pastures. This situation hurts the environment, as well as the economy. The cost of dealing with the fires of last summer amounts to more than EUR 1 billion and the fires create serious damage to flora, fauna, agricultural activities, the environment, biodiversity and, unfortunately, also to human settlements. Alongside these devastating immediate effects, there are then very heavy long-term consequences that undermine the entire ecosystem. These are damages in order to overcome which must be invested on average at least fifteen years, in order to guarantee the recovery of the areas, with extremely high costs. This is why it is strategic to invest in prevention, in an attempt to intervene early, in order to avoid fires and consequent environmental disasters. From here, the opportunity of the measure under consideration, which has the merit of providing for immediate additional measures for prevention, authorizing the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior to acquire air and land means and tools useful to combat forest fires already in the current year, through targeted action. The measure also immediately provides for the allocation of funds for the next three years for local and regional authorities engaged in the active fight against forest fires. These resources will enable the maintenance of the woods and the surrounding areas, set up landing stations for rescue aircraft, and develop useful infrastructure for shut-off operations, such as water supply tanks. The measure also assigns civil protection the task of drawing up every three years a National Plan for the strengthening of human and technological resources, thus creating a useful tool to assess problems and solutions in advance. This is a general regulatory framework, which aims to make contrast more effective. Forest fires are a scourge that puts our natural heritage at risk, which extends over a very vast territory, if you think that more than a third of the Italian surface is covered by woods. Unfortunately, however, it is a fragile heritage, which must be protected, since it is increasingly the victim of climate change, on the one hand, and of man's arson, on the other. Six out of ten fires are specifically caused by pyromaniacs, as we have seen - unfortunately - during the summer, when there have been many serious fires in different regions of the South (especially in Calabria, Molise, Sardinia and Sicily), causing inestimable damage. Significant is the fact that within the measure there is also provision for the strengthening of sanctions, both administrative and criminal, for those responsible for the arson. It is right to have introduced a new aggravating factor for cases in which to set fire both someone who would have had the task of protecting the territory, just as it is good to have foreseen that civil servants convicted of arson with a sentence of more than two years extinguish their working relationship with the public administration and are banned from fire fighting services. In short, it is a law with which we send a clear message to the public: those who cause a fire dolly commit a crime and must be punished accordingly. On the contrary, we were not passionate about the debate, in many ideological ways, that took place in the Commission territory, the environment, environmental goods on the issue of the possible interruption of hunting in the neighbouring territories to those in which the state of emergency is expected following serious fires. In our opinion, this measure is not the right place to feed an unhappy derby between environmentalists and animalists, being - if anything - the opportunity to take seriously the demands coming from the agricultural world and from many administrators. It is news of these months, in fact, the massive increase of wild animals in different areas of Italy, with a presence that often puts at risk our agricultural sector, insofar as these animals devastate the fruit and vegetable production of our farmers and at the same time represent - all too often, unfortunately - a threat to the population. In the year of the emergency Covid, due to the crossing of roads by wild boars or other wild animals, there was an increase in road accidents (one every two days), which caused numerous victims. Hence the need not to introduce rules that can further increase the presence of predatory animals, such as wild boars, wolves or anything else. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are voting on today aims to redesign the governance of fire prevention and to strengthen the operational capacity of those involved in the fight against fire. Unfortunately, this measure does not have sufficient resources at its disposal to provide refreshments for those affected by the devastating force of fire. For this reason, the commitment that the Government has made towards us by approving an agenda of Italy Viva, made also by the other political forces, with which it is expected that already in the upcoming budget law specific aid will be allocated to the victims of the summer fires, resources that must therefore serve first and foremost to allocate the contributions to those who have suffered material damage from the fires. They will also serve to provide for the suspension of the payment of taxes for those living in the affected areas, to refinance the Regional Fund for Civil Protection and to allocate additional resources to autonomous regions and provinces for the acquisition of new operational means, both land and air. The aim is to make it possible to purchase innovative satellite instruments, including radars, cameras, drones equipped with sensors, in order to strengthen surveillance and monitoring systems, because innovation at the service of the environment is the way of the future, if we want to protect our natural heritage; a road that we begin to take with this decree-law. When I come to conclude, Mr President, I would like to make a brief reference to some critical considerations that emerged during the general discussion on the so-called Madia law of the then Renzi Government. To think that the fires of this summer have been caused by the combination of the Forest Corps under the Carabinieri's Weapon means to catch fireflies for lanterns and to treat the problems of climate change as if they were a gala lunch. Of course it is always difficult to rationalise and simplify the public apparatus, but the experience of many other European countries shows that the fight against fires is effective and is also effective in the total absence of a state forestry body. Mr President, this is the least appropriate measure to make polemics and exploitations; instead, we need the compactness of the political forces and of the country to combat a phenomenon, that of fires, of extreme gravity and complexity. We want to take the opportunity of today's vote to express in a choral way our most heartfelt gratitude to the entire Department of Civil Protection and to the Fire Department who, with a great spirit of self-denial and sense of the State, devote themselves daily to the protection of the landscape endangered by fires, without sparing themselves and without hesitating to put their own lives at risk for the common good. To them too today we are voting on this measure and we are doing it in the most shared way possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u70	NASTERS (FdI). Mr President, climate change, drought, desertification, and the negative record of rain that has occurred in recent months were warnings of what could have happened. It certainly didn't take a scientist to understand that Italy would be on fire, not in half, but all. There are two factors that are missing and that the Government has never taken care of: one is definitely prevention and the other is maintenance. As for prevention, you have dismantled the garrisons on the territories and you have forgotten, above all, to involve the citizens, who are actively campaigning for control. With regard to maintenance, the same cannot be done in times of emergency; it should have been done also by the State Forestry Corps, which the Government has thought well to dismantle. All this is added to the fact that in Italy woods are burned mainly to create landfills. This is mainly done by the mob. Landfills are burned to create other illegal landfills. What is angering and disturbing is the systematic unpreparedness of the Government to cope with all the emergencies that occur in Italy. As far as fires are concerned, we know that 99 percent of them are arsonists and organised more or less by crime. We must not forget, however, at this stage too, what has unfortunately been the management of earthquakes, often used to create police structures, whose results, at least in some respects, are doubtful. We cannot also fly over the continuous disasters resulting from the phenomena of hydrogeological failure, which have caused many deaths, also involving entire populations and municipalities. If the Government - and this is the request, Mr President - committed one tenth of the energy it committed to resolving the internal struggles, we would, especially at this stage, have a good solution to the problems of our fellow citizens. On the fires that have devastated Italy this summer, I remember that whole hectares of wood have been destroyed and it will surely take many years before the land can be used again. Not to mention the losses, which are not only economic, but also affective of our community. Unfortunately, the vastness of the phenomenon has manifested, even in a dramatic way, failure. In fact, Mr President, there have certainly been failures in the organisation of the forest fire brought into play by both national and regional civil protection. The private procurement system of the regions and also especially of the civil protection government has not only been bankrupt, but we know that it has also had really exorbitant costs. It has certainly been a crime to dismantle over the years the air fleets of the Fire Department, the Police, the Finance Guard, the Carabinieri, the Forestal, the Army, the Navy and also the Aeronautica itself. The real problem is that not only has the organization been depowered, which seems to be clearly inefficient, but the state has also deprived itself of a strategic asset. The Brothers of Italy Group had long denounced the lack of a certain type of organization and also of adequate estimates alerts. This would have been important to us. As we have pointed out on several occasions the shortage of firefighters, equipped with very few means and, among other things, with poor maintenance. Why have we waited so long and why do tragedies have to occur continuously to hire so-called precarious firefighters? We have firefighters who are now ready, trained and with a great experience. It is therefore necessary to take them. These are about 15,000 people who can help out, who could get out of the precarious and get to a place worthy of what their role requires. Mr President, the government should therefore take responsibility for their recruitment, because they are certainly people who have organizational skills and a great deal of experience. One wonders, especially during this period, whether the maneuver that the government is engaged in these days and the majority in a difficult negotiation will consider this dramatic situation. We hear about additional appropriations for a measure that has proved to be bankrupt and even purely welfare, such as the income of citizenship. It is natural then to ask whether it would not have been appropriate to reduce this part of the investment in some way, instead allocating it to prevent and combat forest fires. Let's talk about 9 billion: was it necessary to get to this much? It is really a lot of money; and how many are those destined today for the men who protect and defend our forests? In the face of the tragedy of the summer just passed, would it not have been appropriate to provide adequate resources? The citizens' income is ahead of the protection of the woods; it would have been appropriate for the government to think about it sooner, certainly not later. It is yet another demonstration of the continuity of this Executive and also of the bad experience of the previous Government led by Count. To the question of resources, which this Government continues, unfortunately, not to devote, is also added the absurd suppression - this is the truth, President - of the forestry body of the State. We of Brothers of Italy have been saying for years that it has been a wrong choice; above all, Italy is the only nation to have deprived itself of the forest body of the State, thus giving up prevention and environmental education, as well as safety. [[Applause]] This is certainly a particularly important moment. All this without taking into account that the implementation of prevention policies also involves spending significantly less than any kind of emergency intervention. On this point too, Mr President, we record the silence of the Government and the majority who support it, who probably think that this decree-law can be a valid response. It is clear that this is not the case: there is a lack of resources and, above all, there is a lack of organisation. The risk of seeing images like those of last summer is certainly very high. The provision for our examination is certainly a warm cloth, a skinny consolation. As already announced in general discussion by my colleagues La Pietra and De Carlo, already in recent months the Brothers of Italy Group had made proposals that, to be honest, have been partially transposed into the decree-law, and with a sense of great responsibility our Group wants to place itself as a proactive interlocutor; it can suggest further measures for a plague that our country cannot continue to endure passively. Therefore, we want to interact, Mr President, in order to try to improve the situation because this is a scourge that, unfortunately, the country - I repeat - cannot tolerate any more; as if a fire did not fall on future generations, causing the decay of the natural habitat. Mr President, the decree-law that we are about to convert cannot be considered the panacea of all evils, the definitive solution to the problem: that it is only a first step towards wider planning and prevention solutions. We therefore hope that this will be the beginning of a path to a solution. For these reasons, I announce the abstention vote of the Fratelli d'Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u73	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, in many previous speeches, it has been stressed how we all have in our eyes the dramatic images that have been repeated this summer, which have shown us the many disasters caused by fires. Fires that have impoverished the country, its natural heritage, the forest and wildlife heritage, which have put so many families and companies in crisis, and taken away work from many people. I therefore believe it was useful, right and necessary to have submitted a decree-law, as the Government has done, not only to deal with the emergency, but to try to put in place a system of intervention and prevention, which prevents, already in the near future, from having to see the damage that we had to count in this difficult summer. This is therefore a right and necessary measure, on which - I say this now - the Democratic Party will vote in favour. I think it is a measure not only for the emergency: I repeat. I think it is very important that we have chosen to clarify well and better what the forms of coordination of fire prevention and fire control should be. It needs to be made clear that coordination must take place between all the parties concerned and that it must be based on precise and three-year plans, that they should identify the situation that occurs year by year. At the same time I think it is very important that the Decree-Law under consideration allocate 40 million euros of the PNRR to strengthen the tools for preventing and fighting fires, the means and all the technologically advanced tools to be able to anticipate the phenomenon and prevent the fires from hitting the country again. We need all this, we need to have the means, and I believe that the fact that we have EUR 40 million is important. Maybe that's not enough, but it's an important first step. I think it is also important that, in the discussion of the conversion law, an amendment tabled by the President of the Mixed Group, Senator De Petris, was approved, which provides for the use of drones and other technologies to prevent fires and find arsonists. As has already been said, many of the forest fires are caused by human intervention and by different interests, which converge on the idea of profiting from fires. Therefore, this is another important issue of conflict, along with the other theme, always contained in the decree-law, which is that of sanctions for those who cause fires and of the aggression for those who, while having to stay within the system of prevention and fight against fires, somehow betray and put themselves in the condition of directly originating less fires. I therefore think that this is an important measure, which clarifies some of the issues that need to be clarified, such as the demarcation of land affected by fires, which must be secured and that, as established by the previous law, for fifteen years must be kept out of any interest: I am thinking of building concessions, grazing or other events, from which often comes the interest in profiting from fires. This is therefore a useful and important measure. However, I believe that there has been a frankly unintelligible debate on a subject which, with the agenda voted on earlier, we have entrusted to the Government. What happens to the fauna after a fire is a theme that must be posed and in doing so there is absolutely no will to fight the hunters or question the hunt. There is an obvious issue, which concerns the need to protect the fauna, even in the face of such serious events as those of the fires; let us do it without penalising anyone, but let us all assume the responsibility to respond to this problem. Mr President, it is a fair, useful and urgent measure, on which we will vote with great conviction, because it addresses decisive issues and, I hope already from next year, creates the conditions to reduce this dramatic phenomenon, which daily impoverishes our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u76	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the decree-law that we are about to convert today is, in my opinion, a bit of a missed opportunity and I say it very clearly. Certainly it was important for the government to intervene after the terrible fires that occurred this summer. I would like to remind you that more than 150,000 hectares of very valuable and important wooded areas have burned down or asphyxiated more than 15 million animals, with all that it means in terms of damage to our country's biodiversity. Therefore, the Government has rightly intervened with an emergency decree. However, I think that Parliament could also have accepted a number of proposals that we too have made; we could have served our country by trying to take a different approach. In fact, in Article 1 of the Decree-Law (on which the Commission also intervened, in order to improve it in some aspects) it finally comes to the idea of coordination between regions, entrusted to civil protection, but remains very tied to the detection of the means, to the monitoring. I think, however, that the qualitative leap that we really should make - and I hope that we can continue to work on this - is a real plan, entrusted to a national institution (civil protection is good), prevention, reconnaissance, active struggle and strategy. We must prepare ourselves for the fact that forest fires, due to climate change, will be less and less frequent; this will be a problem with which we will have to face more and more frequently. In front of this we have to equip ourselves and it is not enough just to have clear that we need to increase the means and do the reconnaissance. We need a government of the strategy on this, because it is a fundamental issue. Italy is one of the countries in Europe with the highest biodiversity rate and has a natural heritage that is truly important. If we read all the data on biodiversity, we would marvel, despite everything that has happened, even in terms of violence, on our territory. We maintain a great heritage: this must in every way be a priority and its preservation one of the crucial elements, all the more so in times of climate change. Therefore, the themes are prevention and protection: we need a great strategic prevention plan, but we also need to accompany it with a plan that is really important. The forestry plan must be integrated and we must speed up conservation measures for all natural habitats. The big element to consider is mitigation, but also adaptation: issues that will be discussed, among other things, next week in Glasgow. From this point of view, I think that this has been a missed opportunity, because in my opinion we could certainly do more to ensure that this perspective and this vision could be realized in a capacity not only for coordination and reconnaissance, but also for the development of a real strategic plan for prevention, active and at the same time governing the fight against forest fires. Of course, a number of important rules have been included, to which everyone has contributed in one way or another. Senator Mirabelli recalled the issue of the use of drones, radars and satellites, as well as infrared technology, which can also be seen at night. It is essential, because in the mountains, in wooded areas, it is difficult to intervene. We need to figure out what the trigger point is right now. Obviously it is also essential to identify the culprits, because this is the other problem: there is a real fire industry, it is useless that we turn around. In this fire industry there are various actors and it is practically unpunished. We have all tabled amendments to increase the penalties, I too have done so, including the ancillary penalties. It's all right, but the problem is that you don't take one and it's very rare to find those responsible: that's the point. If we do not understand this we cannot intervene effectively and proceed with the weapons sprung up. That is why, in my opinion, in addition to technology - I say this clearly here - we could not take a step forward, out of strange oppositions. It was also necessary to have a different investigative capacity. Let me give an example of how to combat international waste traffic: until we made a qualitative leap, for example by giving the possibility of interception, while not debating the problem, we managed to put your hand and brake it. It is clear that there is a question of investigation and professionalism. There is another issue closely linked to the fight against forest fires and it is the capacity of a plan that should be annual, not just three years, and therefore renewed annually, that will bring into play all the existing instruments and experiences. Here comes a painful point: I first heard a colleague who said that someone instrumentally posed the issue of the Forest Corps. But what instrumentally? That was a mistake, isn't it? [[Applause]] The fire department, colleague Candiani, are very good, in fact we have done an important job also in trying to increase its resources and staff; you understand well, however, that they had another expert, because to put out the fires in a wood is not like to do it in a city for a fire burst in a building. We should therefore question ourselves and perhaps also make an effort to understand and strengthen the Carabinieri Forest, Environmental and Food Units Command. Many of us have asked, as President Parrini knows (I am also addressing the President of the Defence Commission), a cognitive investigation, a business assigned to understand exactly what is going on, because the point is crucial if we want to be serious people and intervene to correct some things that are not right. We must put all the skills, the strength in order to be able to do this battle, which is important. As far as the protection of fauna and biodiversity is concerned, there has been an absolutely shameful campaign. I gave the numbers: 15 million are dead animals until now, then there are those fleeing in the surrounding areas. We have asked, when there are calamitous events, to be able to secure the fauna and protect it, even in very limited areas, in order to give the possibility of preserving biodiversity. This has nothing to do with the management of fauna, the control of fauna and the related problems, on which, among other things, I invite everyone to intervene, but in a scientific and serious way. In my view, moreover, we should not set aside the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA). Mr President, in conclusion, I repeat that some things have certainly been done in a positive way by the work of the Commission. Fortunately, the agenda has been adopted and we have already spoken about the duration of perimeter yesterday. However, I consider it a mistake not to be able to finally take a big step forward on this issue. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u79	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as many have mentioned, in 2021 in Italy, 159,000 hectares of wood were smoked, surrounded by flames, practically the cities of Milan, Rome and Naples combined or of Venice, Genoa, Turin and L'Aquila. We have exceeded the 141,000 hectares of 2017, already annus horribilis, which, together with 14,000 in 2018, 37,000 in 2019 and 53,000 in 2020, bring us to the summit, a European record in which we would not want to excel anymore. The escalation of fires last summer costs the country, according to an estimate of Coldiretti, about one billion euros between works of shutdown, reclamation and reconstruction. So today the watchword can only be one: prevention. Investing in prevention means saving in every sense: above all human lives, animal lives, damage to agricultural and productive activities, saving resources that could instead be dedicated to the protection of the territory and its valorization. Today we show in this House that this Government has been able to respond quickly to the terrible phenomenon of forest fires, which has damaged too many Italian regions, especially in the South. The Decree-Law contains measures on forecasting, prevention and active fight against a phenomenon that risks degenerating and causing irreparable damage if appropriate, effective and synergistic measures are not activated between institutions at all levels, integrating and strengthening the existing regulatory and operational arrangements, as this measure is proposed. A plan to combat forest fires, which in the vast majority of cases have different origins, from the inappropriate, when not arsonous, behaviour of man, to exceptional weather conditions. To intervene during and after a fire naturally means having to witness the tragedy of the destruction of large parts of territory, vegetation, wildlife, domestic and livestock, houses, activities, not to mention human lives. To be able to predict and prevent fires means to avoid being late, it means to protect - I repeat - lives, activities and territory. In addition to the prevention plan, the decree also contains provisions to support and support actions to contain fires and limit the damage that requires the intervention of men, aircraft and land means, through the preparation of additional tools to facilitate an even more effective coordination between the bodies of the State and the bodies of the territory. Precisely for this reason I am pleased to point out that the Government has been able to find that long-awaited balance between competences and responsibilities shared between the State and the Regions, valorizing the inclusive perspective of the national civil protection system and entrusting to the Department of Civil Protection itself the function of coordination of the innovations introduced, in order to realize that long-term strategy of which we have all spoken (not within the specific merit). On the judicial front, on the other hand, the mechanism is developed for the prevention and repression of forest fire offences and other cases committed, because the data collected by the forest carabinieri testify that only 2% of the fires have a natural cause, while the rest is caused by man. We welcome, then, the strengthening of the national civil protection service, and the national plan for strengthening the necessary human, technological and land resources, and we welcome the interaction of national actions with regional planning. The Department of Civil Protection is entrusted with the reconnaissance and evaluation of innovative tools and here I stop to the topic of training to extend the protection, the protection and the rescue of even the animals in difficulty. The decree tightens the sanctions and aims to affect the interests of the perpetrators of the offences. These are administrative sanctions and criminal sanctions, but in the course of the analysis of the measure in the Environment Commission we saw as Forza Italia an anomaly that had perhaps escaped but which for us was unacceptable: the introduction of a specific general aggravating factor, with an increase in prison sentences, in the event that it was precisely who would have the task of protecting the territory to set fire. We have therefore shared with the Government and in particular with the Ministry of Justice in the person of the Undersecretary Sisto, whom we thank for the sensitivity shown, the opportunity to eliminate the aggression considering it detrimental to the good repute of mayors and civil protection workers. It was in fact disproportionate to the scope of application of public responsibilities which are already subject to sanctions, partly because then this unjustified exacerbation went to hit public officials and cascade mayors and civil protection workers, and this is all the more so to protect the smaller municipalities, which would, on the contrary, need to implement any action by means and resources that are not there today. As noted by Senator Caligiuri during her speech, in Italy the wooded area represents 83 percent of the total forest area of the country and covers 29 percent of the entire national territory, an inestimable heritage in terms of biodiversity and ecosystems, but it enjoys the sad primacy, as I recalled at the beginning, to be the Country of the Mediterranean and Europe in which more woods burn, especially in the Regions of Southern Italy, a very sad fact. Apulia (in particular Salento), Calabria, Sicily, Sardinia, Molise, Basilicata and Abruzzo are regions that must be protected. In Abruzzo, then, there is even a cultural system of woods and forests, as my colleague from Abruzzo, Senator Pagano, who was also responsible for the Department of the Environment at regional level, pointed out in his speech. 11.25 a.m. (Follows GALLONE). They are magnificent regions for naturalistic wonders and agricultural productions that must be protected. Finally, I would like to mention for the last time the importance of training courses which lead to respect for and proper disposal of cracks, prunings and waste in general in order to avoid harmful actions that add to natural disasters because ignorance or ideological blinds in 2021 cannot and must no longer find any justification. The measure is also an opportunity for us to reaffirm the position and the line of Forza Italia with respect to the issue of environmental protection and sustainability, which sees us committed to making our contribution to the ecological transition in the rational, competent and balanced way that characterizes us. We are delighted that 14 of our amendments have been adopted, plus two very important agendas for the regions of the South, which I mentioned earlier. I am convinced that in order to ensure the protection of the environment and well-being sustainability must be all-round (environmental, social and economic) and that this perfect union can only be achieved through the great alliance between the public and the private, through the conversions and the development of technological innovation, which can only be governed through a structural system of training at every level. Let us pay attention to animals, as many of our amendments, adopted, show us the need to extend our attention to domestic fauna and not to their rescue. At the same time, we pay attention to the agricultural world, which cannot suffer, in addition to the damage of the fires, even that of the devastation of the herbicides. I conclude by saying that Forza Italia voted in favour, taking the opportunity to thank my colleagues from the Environment Commission, Senators Papatheu and Caligiuri, Senator Messina and the Senators Pagano and Floris for their valuable assistance; I take this opportunity to thank with all my heart every single operator, every single volunteer, every single forest carabiniere and every single fireman for the great daily work of altruism and to promise to Sicily, hit still today after the fire by the water, all our commitment to concrete demonstration of our closeness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u82	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the first thanks go to the Government, but not so much and not only to the undersecretaries Bini and Sibilia who followed the measure in the Assembly, but to the Government which finally approved a decree that we are converting today and which remedy - we must say - the shame that it did not before the plague of fires that has struck our country for years. If the summer of this year has shown a revival with data that unfortunately brings us back over the years, it is nevertheless true that it is a plague that has been going on for a long time. Thank you for allowing for once the mechanism, which does not always work best, the urgent decree to function as it should and as it is provided for in our Constitution and for allowing Parliament to improve the text of the Government. The other thanks do not go in a way to President Moronese and to Mr Quarto. I'm glad they're there. It was at least an unusual and atypical trio, consisting of majority and opposition, which included the two souls of perhaps the most distant majority. Having always kept a thread of personal correctness even before institutional and political between us and with the Government I think it can be a good omen for everyone and I think it may have contributed - hopefully - with our limitations and shortcomings to having achieved an important result. Thank you very much to all my colleagues. I am not just referring to those of the Environment Commission and in part to those of the Agriculture Commission, which have followed the measure with particular attention, but to all colleagues in the territories particularly affected by the fires of this summer who, during the hearings, with an amendment or happening in the Commission for the first time, have really followed the measure in a homogeneous, organic and choral way, beyond the belongings of the competent Commissions in the individual subject more appropriate, closer or that each of us follows more closely. I think that this is the right spirit and also the best response to those who wanted to define this act, at best, a warm cloth. It is much more, even for the spirit with which it was taken. I said that it is an important act, not only because it truly certifies the urgency of the decree-law itself (which no one contested), but also because of the organic nature of the provision, which on the one hand looks at the emergency and on the other has been able to look at prevention (and not always this happens). Let's say that our country is a country that gives its best in the emergency, sometimes only at that moment and maybe without being able to look beyond. We have been able to play, as a Parliament, that role which we often claim, but which we do not always know how to carry forward together. In the hearings this has led us - I come back to this passage, because I think it is important - to go beyond the ideological aspect and to consult not only the institutions and the forces of order, but also the institutions and universities, in order to have that fundamental information that allows the political decision-maker to take initiatives and legislate with knowledge of the cause. There were also three areas that are often seen as conflicting: environmental associations, which perhaps in a more obvious way could be taken into account, farmers' trade associations and the management booth of hunting associations. Having heard everyone and listened to the views of those who are still suffering damage from fires, as well as of course the communities, I think it was an important signal, which led us to act on the level of rules, organization, personnel, means, penalties, prevention, but also of refreshments. I repeat, because I believe it to be fundamental: the commitment that the Government has made, with all political forces, in identifying additional resources for the recovery of those who have suffered damage already in the basic text of the budget law is ideally part of this text. A three-year plan with annual reviews allows to have an overall vision; it not only favors the support and the loyal collaboration between the institutions, but also rightly provides, when something does not work, a substitute power towards those municipalities (that are hundreds and hundreds in Italy) who lately vote in the City Council the land register run by fire. It is also expected that the regions will be able to act, in case of emergency, reducing the time. We fought for every single day, with our colleague Fourthly and with many of our colleagues, we have reached 45 days for perimeter. We all wanted - and I really mean it - that it had been right away. We hope that the new technologies will further reduce that time; in any case, this was a strong and important signal. Let me add another passage, which I have not heard from other colleagues (I allow myself to do so): the rewards. Not only sanctions and acts from that point of view, but also rewards for those territories that demonstrate that they adopt best practices in order to reduce fires. Having inserted a reward mechanism goes in the right direction, in the direction of prevention and to promote what works in our country and that all too often we do not highlight. We said of the organization: putting together all the possible forces and also seeing present in the various committees subjects from various areas and from various realities is a fundamental aspect. Allow me to claim what was a bullet of mine (I apologize if I insisted on this until the spasm): the constitution of the SAVA, the Air Surveillance System fire. Being able to insert and involve the system without additional costs, to network the airfields and the hydrofields, to be able to realize additional tanks and water systems that allow to have the most present means on the front of the fire, reducing the journey times, also involve many associative and voluntary realities in the possibility to signal the fires I think it is an important step, that can make a strong contribution. The staff issue has rightly been claimed by all parties, who have tabled amendments in this respect: the increase of 250 staff units, the reduction to five weeks of the course for for foreman, in order to have people giving arms and legs to what we have foreseen in the decree, which would otherwise remain dead letter. Everyone - I hope - hoped to see more also with the intervention on the rules for the ranking of discontinuous wines, which - it is bad to know - in some cases there are people for whom we have also tightened the penalties, who should protect and defend fires and instead start them. Mr Candiani, when he was Undersecretary of State, was also personally risked on this subject. Allow me the only not controversial note, but that I feel like doing because I feel a little anger. In the face of all this, I believe that calling the action of the Government and Parliament bankrupt is not only incorrect, but also disrespectful to all those who work in this area and risk their lives. To say that the management of last summer's emergency was a failure and shameful one and I think it does not honour Parliament and to whom those fires fought them personally. The issue of hunting, which has surreptitiously entered the measure and debate, is divisive and there will probably be a referendum, yet again, on the issue. Speaking of which, I'm just saying one thing. Let's start with what we've been able to do, telling environmentalists' associations and hunters that they have to start their ten-year-olds right away and that it's necessary to perimetrare right away. I believe that this is a starting point, moving from the most extreme positions, which could perhaps lead us to find a shared solution. I will finish with one last step. Almost everyone remembered the images of this summer. I want to remember others, which are those of these last days related to the disaster in Catania and Sicily. The strongest hope we can express is that the spirit that led us to approve together a measure of this kind (because, in the end, this was, if not for an amendment) will finally lead us to approve another thing that has been missing forever in our country, namely a single text on emergencies that regulates the various cases, from the hydrogeological failure to earthquakes. October 30 (i.e. in two days) will be the anniversary of the earthquake of Central Italy. I think that from here to the end of the mandate (we have repeated it throughout the parliamentary term, every time there has been a tragedy) the commitment that the government could make is to adopt a single text for emergencies and we to improve it in Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u85	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, in these hours the bad weather is scourged in eastern Sicily and unfortunately we must also register victims. All the 5 Star Movimento gathers around the families of the populations affected by this terrible flood. [[Applause]] From one disaster to another. Let me first tell you about the positive aspects of the measure and express my disappointment. That past one has been a summer that we will hardly forget. The country has been on fire as never before and thousands of hectares of green have been destroyed, as well as farms, farms, houses and wild animals that live there. Despite this tragedy, among us are those who, like the League, play unscrupulous games on the country's skin to protect the interests of the few and bring water to their own mill. Rather than protecting the flora and fauna of our country, it was preferred to mount a case on an amendment that had as its ratio simply to suspend hunting activity for a single season and only on the occasion of the declaration of the state of emergency. [[Applause]] It was a common sense rule, as the flames destroyed the habitats of many animal species. I would also like to add that the regions manage wildlife and when there are problems of this nature in the territories they are still hunting wild animals. Therefore, this amendment was quite pertinent. But let us move forward, because this measure is too important and must heal a deep wound caused by fires. Yes, because the measure under consideration today remedys a very serious situation, the daughter of a short-sighted and unscrupulous policy, which has not wanted to focus for decades on control and prevention; the same policy that has erased that precious resource represented by the Forest Corps of the State (and here too the faults have a name and a surname). And so every year thousands of fires have devastated and destroyed thousands of hectares of forest, the same woods that should capture CO2 and help our territories clean up the air and fight climate change. To remember the dramas of the past Ferdinando Cotugno, journalist and writer, thinks about it in his book "Italian woood". In recent decades, forest fires have been a national emergency. 2017 was a terrible year: according to fire department data, there was an increase of 321.6 percent, with particular suffering of the hottest areas, the South and the islands. Between 2009 and 2016 one hectare out of three went to smoke in Sicily, one in five in Sardinia. In 2018 there was a decrease of 90 percent, with a resumption of the stakes in 2019. In the last thirty years, according to data from Civil Protection, 12% of the national forest heritage has been destroyed due to the flames. Between 1980 and 2009 - says Cotugno - the average area burned per year was 111,665 hectares. Between 2010 and 2017 it was 72,621 hectares, counting the tremendous peak of 2017. This year's fires have passed the 2017 record. According to the last forest inventory, there are now 11 million hectares in Italy, that is 36.7% of the territory from North to South: more than a third of Italy, a great responsibility that our country has not yet accepted. In Sicily, from which came the terrifying images and where the flames have devoured beautiful oases, it seems that about 80,000 hectares have been burned, equal to 3 percent of the Region. In Sardinia, where over 20,000 hectares of woods have been burned, according to estimates by Coldiretti it will take at least fifteen years to restore flora and fauna. The damage is considerable, as for the whole country, with a calculated cost of about 1 billion euros, between works of shutdown, reclamation and reconstruction at national level. With this decree-law today we lay the foundations for tackling the problem of fires from here to the next few years. Let us be clear, this is a first step; we will have to do more in the coming months with parliamentary work, especially in support of the regions, whose work in recent years to protect our forests has been to say the least lacking. Having said that, we must now look to the future and hope that some mistakes will not be made again. This decree-law considerably strengthens the Department of Civil Protection and aims precisely to draw up the National Plan for the strengthening of human, technological, aerial and terrestrial resources, necessary for a more adequate prevention and active fight against forest fires; a document that will complement the usual regional planning. The decree-law under consideration gives great importance to the role of technologies and all those instruments for monitoring our territories. Means, but above all training, because it is mainly about training that we must aim for. I very much hope that in the coming months, starting from the budget law, we can broaden the spectrum of interventions in favour of the prevention of our territories. Italy is a fragile country; we do not discover it today. It is known how much less the cost of prevention compared to the repair of storm and fire damage. Then we start from what is necessary for this earth. These are the issues we need to explore in 2021, which is waiting for 2022 at the window. Let's talk about geological paper to complete. [[Applause]] We're talking urban reforestation. We are talking about soil consumption and urban regeneration. These are precisely the themes of our present. Let's start with the decree-law fires having as a vision a broader picture. For this reason I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars to the provision to our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u86	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 120 of 8 September 2021, laying down provisions for the fight against forest fires and other emergency civil protection measures" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u87	The next item is the debate on draft constitutional law No 865. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Garruti, whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft constitutional law we are debating today is the result of a long work done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the Commission for the result achieved with the broadest support. It is a draft constitutional law of popular initiative, modified in the course of the amendment in the course of the examination in the Commission, aimed at introducing a new paragraph to Article 119 of the Constitution, with which it is explicit the concept that the Republic recognizes the peculiarities of the islands and promotes the measures necessary to remove the disadvantages deriving from the insularity. More specifically, in the third paragraph of Article 119 of the 1948 Constitution, a precise reference was made to the islands which, given the geographical, economic and social handicaps, received special contributions aimed at their exploitation. In fact, it was established that to provide for specific purposes, and particularly to enhance the Mezzogiorno and the islands, the State grants by law special contributions to individual regions. With the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution in 2001, every reference to the insularity of the constitutional dictation was eliminated, remaining only a reference to the territories with less fiscal capacity per inhabitant regardless of geographical conditions. The amendments introduced to Article 119 also included the principle of fiscal federalism with the aim of creating a close link between spending and levy decisions, aimed at bringing citizens closer to the institutions, in order to facilitate the allocation of public resources in terms of goods and services more in line with the preferences of those who are called upon to bear the cost. In the light of the articulated cycle of informal hearings of constitutionalists, representatives of island territorial authorities and representatives of associations and committees, amendments have been made to the original text with the aim of avoiding, for example, that the term insularity in the Constitution is considered only as a source of disadvantage and consequent economic and financial difficulties. For this reason, reference has been inserted to the recognition of the peculiarities of the islands, an expression which, if understood in a broad sense, inclusive of the promotion of the specialties and not a mere taking of action, underlies a valorization of the specific cultural, historical and naturalistic character of these territories. Therefore, the Republic, which recognizes the particular nature of the islands, undertakes to promote all the measures necessary to enhance the peculiarities and to prevent them from becoming a source of disadvantages for the same territories. This reform strengthens even more the concept that it is not enough to create equalization funds without the constraints of destination for territories with less fiscal capacity per inhabitant, but we need an attitude no longer aimed exclusively at the rebalancing of existing imbalances, but proactive, in view of the exaltation of territorial peculiarities. Therefore, Mr President, I hope that this House will express itself in one way or another on the content of the proposal that we are considering. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u89	I declare the general discussion open. She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft constitutional law we are debating today is the result of a long work done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the Senate, and I take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mr Garruti, for the result that has been achieved. It is a draft constitutional law of popular initiative, modified in the course of the amendment in the course of the examination in the Commission, aimed at introducing an additional paragraph to Article 119 of the Constitution, according to which the Republic recognizes the peculiarities of the islands and promotes the measures necessary to remove the disadvantages deriving from the insularity. In the light of the articulated cycle of informal hearings of constitutionalists, representatives of island territorial authorities, representatives of associations and committees, changes have been made to the original text, with the aim of preventing the term "insularity" in the Constitution being considered as a mere source of disadvantage and consequent economic and financial difficulties. For this reason, being among other things Sardinian and knowing in the first person the peculiarities of a territory so geographically heterogeneous and singular, but closely linked to its own history, has been inserted a reference to the recognition of the peculiarity of the islands, expression that, if understood in a broad sense, inclusive of the promotion of specificity, and not linked to a mere taking of action, underlying a valorization of the specificities of cultural, historical and naturalistic character of these territories. More specifically, the 1948 Constitution contained, in the third paragraph of Article 119, a precise reference to insularity: the islands, perceived as disadvantaged from a geographical, economic and social point of view, were in fact receiving special contributions from the central State. However, with the reform of Title V in 2001, this constitutional reference has been removed and, with the amendment to Article 119, the principle of fiscal federalism has been incorporated, with the aim of creating a close link between spending and levy decisions aimed at bringing citizens closer to the institutions, in the sense of facilitating the allocation of public resources in terms of goods and services more in line with the preferences of those who are called to bear the cost. The process of implementation of Article 119 began with the delegation law of 2009, approved, therefore, about eight years after the constitutional reform of Title V, which led the Government to adopt a series of delegated legislative decrees and which brought - between the principles and the guiding criteria - the need to take into account the specificities of territorial realities, with particular regard to the socio-economic reality, the infrastructure deficit, the rights of the person, the geographical location of the entities, their proximity to the border with other States or with Regions with special status, the mountainous territories, the smaller islands, the need to protect the historical and artistic heritage in order to promote economic and social development. The recognition of the need for public intervention in relation to inconveniences related to insularity is also contained in legislative interventions following Law No 42 of 2009, which were directed to specific island realities such as Sicily and Sardinia and not to the whole of the Italian islands. I refer, for example, to the allocation of funds to Sardinia in order to guarantee a complete and effective system of air connections that allows the reduction of the inconveniences deriving from the condition of insularity and that guarantees the continuity of the right to mobility also to non-resident passengers, as provided for in Decree-Law No 185 of 2015. I am also thinking of the establishment of a Joint Instructing Committee between State and Region in the 2018 Budget Act for the implementation of the procedure for granting Sardinia the status of island region, which is designed to define aid schemes already foreseen for the outermost regions of other EU Member States, identified in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to which special conditions are reserved for the application of the Treaties. Moreover the fiscal law of 2020 has intervened in the context of the transposition of the agreement in the matter of public finance of 7 November 2019 between the Government and the Region Sardinia, referring to an ad hoc center the definition of the question of the compensation of the costs of the insularity. I quote from the tax decree, which is currently being examined by the Commissions of Finance and Treasury and Labour, Social Security of the Senate, which allocates to paragraph 4 of Article 14 financing to compensate for the structural disadvantages deriving from the condition of insularity. It is a fact that islands have intrinsic disadvantage situations, which relate to transport and connection with the mainland, the environment and various fragile ecosystems, exposed to constant climate change, or the reduced economic activity, including seasonal tourism, fisheries and agriculture. At the same time, however, it is impossible to deny their essential role, a lever for the economy and the history of our country. In other words, given the incidence of the condition of insularity in the development of strategic territories such as Sardinia and Sicily, which determines higher costs of air, sea and land transport of people and goods, a problem to which the European Parliament has already tried to give a response in 2016, with Resolution 2015/3014 on the condition of insularity, several committees of citizens on 7 April 2018 began the process of collecting signatures, aimed at promoting the presentation, within the Italian Parliament, of a constitutional bill aimed at bringing back the theme of the insularity and equal opportunities of citizens resident in the islands to the center of the national debate. It is an invitation that we must all accept today in this House and that I myself have made my own, precisely because of my Sardinian origins, even with the presentation of a bill at my first signature, aimed at establishing, for the election of the members of the European Parliament of Italy, the constituency of Sardinia. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that today we must start again from the actual recognition of the condition of insularity, which must move from the constitutional forecast, and then to the practical application of the policies of the European Union and of the national ones. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u91	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to this House to talk about a subject which concerns the South and, in particular, the islands, after we started our journey in the 18th legislature, talking about the smaller islands. We are now discussing a subject which concerns Sicily and Sardinia, whose problems are certainly macroscopic. I have prepared a speech, which I shall read and which is evaluated on the intellectual level of my colleagues, but I want to make a small introduction. First of all, I would like to thank my Sardinian colleague, Senator Floris, who has involved me in the difficult process of recognizing insularity, which I believe is almost a prerequisite for the development of our regions, which are affected by the lack of such recognition. In fact, it has been taken away from us and this issue will be dealt with in my speech. However, I would like to tell you in pills what insularity means. I am a traveler; as a parliamentary I return periodically to Sicily, every weekend, and therefore I understand well what it means to live on an island. An island that sees us far from the mainland (Sardinia even more), because distanced from the sea. A sea that in winter naturally has strong oscillations, so the trains are forced to travel even in conditions of very little safety because, in order to travel the journey the travelers are bottled in cars or bed and they have to entrust themselves to the Lord to arrive on the mainland. Of course, travelers are well aware of the oscillations they experience, both when ferrying, and when passing with the car. And this when it's okay, because then, even from the point of view of investment in these infrastructures, it's all a question mark. Sometimes the ships they have to bring us are still, sometimes they are insufficient, as in summer. It will be said that in summer you can ferry comfortably, in twenty minutes, but that is not true, because in summer the time of expectations becomes even longer, with kilometers and kilometers in a row starting from Villa San Giovanni. These are kilometers in a row that obviously are not assisted by toilets, because those in these rows get stuck in the car at 40 degrees; the luckiest have some bottles of water, which in the meantime has become hot or boiling, others, instead, organized for the holidays, maybe carry thermal bags. This is the folklore of what today represents the trip to Sicily; a journey that, however, costs. In fact, especially today that the airline ITA has forgotten the safeguard of the social routes, the trip to Sicily is faced by people who, unlike me, cannot take means inevitably linked to movements of train, plane or car, especially today that the cost of gasoline has still increased. I remind you that my train ticket, for example of a sleeping car, costs between 150 and 200 euros and I often travel also in the second class, because there is no place (this is another problem too, having to transfer us all by trains or by means). On the planes, I feel worse. You will see that during the whole Christmas season the luckiest will be able to find a ticket of 500, 400, 600 euros and on this obviously I invite everyone to a reflection. The problem of insularity cannot always be solved by referring it to governments, with the demand for economic resources to fill this gap. We must aim for the recognition of insularity as a condition and prerequisite for development, above all in order to heal the competitiveness of these regions with respect to others. And these are the transports that I live, to commute; it is worse for those who have to transport gas, electricity, to those who have to produce and transport goods, to those who have to buy raw materials. This is a problem that must be addressed once and for all by this Parliament, so that Europe can recognise the condition that our Constitution had already recognised. In fact, with the reform of Title V of Part Two of the Constitution, approved in 2001, the third paragraph of Article 119 was deleted, which provided for special contributions to enhance the Mezzogiorno and the islands. It was a rule intended by the constituent Fathers to guarantee territorial unity and social cohesion, through the special protection of some areas of the country economically more disadvantaged because of their geographical location. The recognition of the territorial disadvantage was born from the desire to guarantee to all Italian citizens, wherever they were resident, an equal perspective in the process of overall growth, in the economic, social and cultural fields, determining factors for the development and for the future of the country. The legislator intended, therefore, to promote the effective exercise of the fundamental rights of the person and the community. It is the same request that is being called upon by hundreds of thousands of our citizens through the draft constitutional law before the Senate Assembly. As Benedict Croce pointed out, the constituent assembly had well in mind that the southern issues after the Risorgimento were still open. It was recognized, in fact, the special statute for the major islands and targeted interventions, such as those then supported by the Cassa del Mezzogiorno. The State intended to fully reconcile territorial unity and autonomy. In recent years, unfortunately, the issue of insularity has disappeared and it is significant that more than 200,000 citizens throughout the national territory have mobilized to sign and submit to the Chambers a proposal for a constitutional law so that the Italian Republic recognizes the structural disadvantages resulting from the insularity and takes the necessary measures to remove them. The reference to insularity obviously concerns not only Sicily and Sardinia, but also the smaller islands. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens - not only those living in the beautiful Italian islands - have revealed to the legislative body the disadvantages and the criticalities inherent in this territorial discontinuity, disadvantages that prevent the uniform enjoyment of the benefits of civil and social rights that are characteristic of citizenship. I would like to highlight the fact that, after Brexit, Italy has become the European country in which most island citizens live: 12% of the population. The ambitious plan to operate a reconnaissance of the island infrastructures, previewed from the law delegation in matter of fiscal federalism in 2009 - the law that after eight years has started a process of implementation of the reform of Article 119 of the Title V, according to which they would have had to program targeted participations for sanitary structures, schools, road networks, highways, railway, water net, electric and of transport, distribution of the gas, harbour structures and airport - still has not had full implementation. As a result, targeted contributions, with which multiannual programmes for assistance should be financed, have not been properly quantified. The wording of the third paragraph of Article 119, in its original version, in some respects was similar to that of the paragraph which the constitutional bill would like to add to our examination in the same article 119, reintroducing the reference to the exploitation of islands as a priority objective of state intervention. Such recognition would constitute a bond for legislators to be respected. The European Union's legal order also provides that aid may be allocated to the outermost regions by States to overcome the persistence of all these factors which, together, are causing serious damage to the development of the territory. Consider measures to promote territorial continuity, recognised by the European Union itself as a prerequisite for the fundamental right of freedom of movement and residence. For a long time the Sicily Region has asked the Government concrete interventions in order to guarantee to the Sicilians the right to territorial continuity and overcome the structural and permanent competitive disadvantages that such discontinuity involves, even if - colleagues - I trust that, through the allocation of adequate resources, such gap can finally be filled; territorial continuity to which we must think also in terms of activity of circulation of the goods, that it can be compromised by an insufficient offer of services of transport. The policy must ensure that the development, establishment and construction of modern infrastructure are also encouraged in island territories. That is also why I look with confidence at the PNRR. I reserve the right to hand over the full text of the intervention, hoping that the draft law will be approved for our examination, because it would allow an important step to recognize to our beautiful islands what they deserve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u93	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u94	Senator Doria is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is for me a moment of great satisfaction, in which it is recognized that for decades it has been the subject of battles by those who have preceded me, with the aim of pursuing that happiness of the Sardinians that also the statute of the Sardinian Action Party has always included among its main objectives. It is a party that this year has accomplished a hundred years since its birth, which has always supported the autonomous and identity battles, sharing today with the League the federalist spirit of all time. Sardinia is a proud island of its culture and history, but also limited in its economic development, today more than yesterday, by that gap represented by insularity. This, if from a phylogenetic point of view has favored the genomic alchemies, which have made Sardinia the land of the famous centenaries all over the world, on the other has caused an unacceptable disparity in the socio-economic development that must be filled today. All the islands, more or less, have situations of disadvantage that concern various areas, first of all between all the transports and the environment. In the field of transport, Sardinia needs a true territorial continuity maritime and air, lasting over time and not linked to deadlines and extensions that generate uncertainties and diseconomies. Sardinia, a tourist region, has begun to see an opening of economic recovery after the disaster caused by the pandemic and certainly does not need the uncertainty linked to an expensive, inadequate and penalizing transport system. If it is an unequivocal data the right of the Sardinians to mobility from and to Sardinia as well as the rest of the Italians who live and move in the Peninsula, no less must be guaranteed the right to a continuity for the goods entering and leaving the island, which would reduce the gap deriving from the cost of insularity, eternal ball at the foot of those who decide to make business in Sardinia. To this end we have repeatedly asked the various governments that have succeeded over time a new territorial continuity that reduces the costs of transport for people and goods, but also a transport system with high standards of quality that are worthy of a civil country. The entrustion to the carriers of the routes in territorial continuity can stand, in fact, not only with the criterion of the low cost, but rather on an overall offer that aims to the quality of the service, frequency of the services and greater routes. The quality and comfort offered by the ferries that sail the routes to Sardinia and the Peninsula must serve as a business card of our tourist sector and as the first day of vacation for those who decide to spend their holidays in our land. However, if the maritime continuity cries, the air one certainly does not laugh. The air continuity imposed on Sardinia by Rome and Brussels allowed to connect the three Sardinian airports with the only hubs of Linate and Fiumicino. But, for a free movement of passengers and goods, with obvious revival of the economy, it would be necessary instead to connect the three main Sardinian airports also with the airports of other productive realities of the Country. For years, however, the ban has been blocked under the scrutiny of the European Commission, because of an incomprehensible hypothesis of violation of the rules of the market that apply to us, but not to Corsica. After his inauguration, the president of the Christian Solinas Region, already a member of this Assembly, in an uncertain situation due to the lack of renewal of the ban of air continuity firm Brussels, had to face one of the largest economic-financial cracks of the history of Italian civil aviation, with the failure of Air Italy that, besides having put on the road 1,500 specialized employees and their families, has also left the monopoly of the routes to Alitalia, that in recent days has greeted us forever, overwhelming us between strikes and disservices. Today you travel with Volotea, Spanish low cost carrier, who will provide the service until May and then is not given to know. It has to be said that tomorrow there is no certainty and the economic development of an island cannot be based on these assumptions. In terms of the environment, islands have often been characterised by a fragile ecosystem, particularly vulnerable to climate change and phenomena such as coastal erosion, drought and scarcity of natural resources, linked to energy dependence on land. This suggests public intervention to promote the production of energy from renewable sources and, more generally, the adoption of measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change. In the light of these considerations, today I welcome the draft Constitutional Law No 865, of popular initiative, which aims to recognize the serious and permanent natural disadvantage deriving from the insularity and introduces an additional paragraph after the fifth paragraph of Article 119 of the Constitution, in which the Republic solemnly recognizes the peculiarity of the islands and promotes the measures necessary to remove the disadvantages deriving from the insularity. The provision places at the head of the Republic the task of recognising the disadvantage situation and of providing for the necessary measures through the identification of the necessary resources. In order to appreciate the innovative scope of the draft law under consideration, I would like to recall the contents of Article 119 of the Constitution and in particular the fifth paragraph, to which the provision relates from a contentious point of view. In a nutshell, the amendments to Article 119 introduced in 2001 included the autonomy of revenue and expenditure of territorial authorities in what we know as fiscal federalism, accompanied by a double equalisation system. The fifth paragraph provides for additional state resources towards territorial authorities and for special measures to be taken by the State in favour of these bodies, with a view to pursuing the following objectives: promoting economic development, cohesion and social solidarity, removing economic and social imbalances and promoting the effective exercise of the rights of the person. For a more effective framework of the draft constitutional law under consideration, it can help to point out, unfortunately, the partial implementation of Article 119, which could help to understand the reasons of those who note the inadequacy of support to territories with structural advantages, among which can be included island ones. Article 119 provides for a system in which the financial autonomy of income and expenditure is linked to a dual equalization system: a first without a destination constraint in favour of territorial authorities with a lower per capita tax capacity, which has been interpreted in implementing terms as referring to supporting the ordinary functions of territorial authorities; a second of a structural nature for different purposes than the normal exercise of functions. In this context, a complete implementation of Article 119 could have ensured actions aimed at countering the natural disadvantage of island territories and ensuring effective equality with the citizens of the mainland in the enjoyment of inalienable individual rights. Today, with the amendment to Article 119, through the introduction of the new more stringent paragraph, we solemnly want to emphasize that the principle of insularity introduced wants to protect the rights of so many Italians who can no longer be trampled on and that is why today with confidence I invite you to support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u96	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u97	Mr President, just this morning, from the pages of the New Sardinia, we learned of the news of a fifty-year-old woman from Olbia who, forced for a delicate surgery to operate in Northern Italy, found that the only means available to return to Olbia on stretcher was the ambulance. She was thus forced to spend almost 10,000 euros to return home to her family. This lady's health does not allow her to face a long sea trip. Moreover, the airline, to which some days ago the routes were assigned in territorial continuity, still does not provide services for citizens in stretcher, who are often forced to go to other regions to undergo complicated surgery, given also the difficult health situation that we are living in the last days in Sardinia. This is a plastic and tangible example of what it can mean to live on an island. Today we are called to examine a very important and long-awaited measure for the recognition of the serious and permanent natural disadvantage resulting from insularity. In our country there are more than 800 islands, of which about 80 are inhabited and whose residents have always been in an objective situation of diversity and disadvantage compared to the rest of Italy. It is therefore necessary to guarantee them effective equality in the enjoyment and respect of the rights provided for in our Constitution. To the disadvantages that are daily forced to live the Sardinian citizens and the islanders we add, with the rest of Italy and Europe, also the lack of equal employment opportunities, infrastructure, economic development and well-being. In Sardinia, for example, reliable and sustainable quality infrastructure needs to be developed and promoted. I am thinking in particular of often obsolete rail services with too long journey times and no significant investment in sight. We also need to support economic development through the establishment of the ZES, an area with economic legislation of major disadvantage, also due to the numerous tax benefits and the simplification measures envisaged that can be a flywheel for our economy, which pays a price that is still too high for its insularity; a disadvantage particularly evident at a time such as today's time of strong geographical and economic interdependence. Precisely because insularity often negatively affects all aspects of the daily life of its citizens, it is necessary and urgent to give our islands tangible institutional and constitutional recognition. The state must guarantee full rights and opportunities to the millions of citizens who live, study, work and invest in our islands, always remembering that these people are forced to live with so many disservices that they face with courage and determination. I therefore believe that the constitutional bill of popular initiative which we are about to adopt and which I hope will find the agreement of all my colleagues in this House today is in the right direction. And I would like to thank the committee which has promoted the bill and all the Sardinian senators who have not spared themselves in carrying out the same proposal, even within their own groups. Let it be given full constitutional dignity to our wonderful islands, entrusting the State with the task of removing too many obstacles that still affect the life of the islanders. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u98	The general debate is closed. At the last Conference of the Leaders, in agreement with the parliamentary groups, it was decided to postpone to next week the reply of the rapporteurs, the explanations of vote and the final vote of the measure. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u99	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2305, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pittoni, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u100	Mr President, the bill on qualifying university qualifications, approved at first reading in the House and which passed without amendment the examination of the Education Commission in the Senate, is one of the reform interventions indicated in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) that must obtain the green light by 31 December next. The measure confers an enabling effect on certain degrees for the exercise of their respective professions. Specifically, the final examination for the achievement of master's degrees in dentistry and dental prostheses, in pharmacy and industrial pharmacy, in veterinary medicine, as well as the master's degree in psychology, enables the exercise of the profession of dentistry, pharmacist, veterinary doctor and psychologist respectively. Similarly, the achievement of professional qualifications in technical professions for construction and the territory, in agricultural, food and forestry technical professions and industrial and information technical professions has an enabling effect on the practice of the profession of graduate surveyor, graduate agrotechnician, graduate agricultural expert and graduate industrial expert. In addition, the possession of master's degrees in physical chemistry and biology enables the practice of chemical, physical and biological professions respectively. In addition to the above-mentioned degrees, the bill provides that, with delegification regulations, and therefore no longer by law, further degrees can be made enabling the exercise of regulated professions. It is an organic intervention with which extends to other professional areas the measure started with article 102 of the Italian decree cure, which introduced the degree enabling in medicine and surgery, allowing to provide an immediate response to the need to face the critical conditions of the National Health Service following the pandemic emergency. Further integrations will be possible at the table that the Government has committed itself to act quickly for the revision and updating of the discipline relative to the access to the regulated professions, following the demands coming from some professions in the perspective of completion of the regulatory framework of reference. The law will not override, as the act enabling the profession will start not from the entry into force of the norm, but from the academic year following that in progress to the date of adoption of the rectoral decrees, which is required to adapt the teaching regulations of the university, after accreditation of the qualifying study courses. It is a first piece to be followed by the implementation of the Government and universities and the accreditation phase. Those who have already obtained the title according to the previous educational systems, or will achieve it in the meantime, will have to take the state exam for the qualification to enter the respective professions. However, Article 6 provides for simplified arrangements to be made. Their definition will be put back to one or more decrees of the Minister of the University, in agreement with the Minister vigilante on the order or the competent professional college, after hearing the national representations of the same order or college. For students who have obtained or will obtain a master's degree in psychology on the basis of previous non-enabled educational systems, a specific transitional discipline is provided (Article 7). The qualification for the exercise of the profession of psychologist will be acquired after passing a practical evaluative internship and a practical evaluation test. Also in this case the concrete discipline is returned to the decree of the Minister of the university. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u101	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u102	Madam President, I would ask you to be able to attach the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u103	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Saponara. The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I call on the authors to explain their amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u104	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 3.0.1. I would point out that two agendas have already been adopted in the Commission. The first is a proposal that comes from the young people of Brothers of Italy, about registration in the faculty of medicine and surgery: it is asked to register all those who request it and to proceed to a subsequent selection, in the transition from the first to the second year, with a test that takes into account the CFU achieved by the students, with already known and limited contents, in order to evaluate their actual preparation. The other agenda concerns the figure of the social worker. This amendment comes a little further and I would like to explain its content. At this historic moment, when we see an increase in violence against women (and not only) and violence involving children and children within households, we should strengthen the figure of the social worker, who has evolved over the years. The category asks to cover the normative gap in the formation that came to be created in the passage from the decree of 1999, which provided for the master's degree (thus the five-year period), to ministerial decree n. 270 of 2004, which gave rise to the division between the three-year degree and the biennial specialized degree. Basically in this passage came an interministerial decree which equated some competition classes that once included the degree obtained in five years and that achieved with the first three years in the faculty of political sciences. Therefore, you understand well that the goal has been concorrosual, but you have not covered the gap relative to the formation. With Amendment 3.0.1 we are intervening on Article 22 of the Decree of the President of the Republic of 5 June 2001, No 328, so that Article 23 can be considered, allowing the new graduates to be examined, if possible by specialised staff belonging to the register of social workers. With this attempt we would overcome another Italian problem relating to the figure of the social worker: the division, within the register, between Section A and Section B, which on the other hand at international level is considered totally. Both the guidelines for educational standards approved by the International Association of Social Service Schools and the International Federation of Social Assistants are involved in this direction. So I come to the point: a number of agendas have been adopted in this parliamentary term in this direction, but they have not taken charge of this figure. I conclude by stressing that the Ministry of the Interior, together with the CNOAS and other figures, is drawing up a protocol of intervention in cases of violence against women as well. It's an emergency. The request I make to the Assembly is to vote in favour of this amendment tabled by Brothers of Italy, in order to promote an immediate network intervention for social services, in cases of violence even within the households. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u105	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment 1.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u106	I call on you to withdraw amendment 1.0.2 and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u107	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u108	Senator Stable, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u109	I withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u110	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment 2.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u111	I call for amendment 2.4 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u112	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u113	Senator De Carlo, will you accept the rapporteur's invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u114	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u115	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment 3.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u116	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u117	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u118	Senator Drago, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u119	Mr President, I maintain Amendment 3.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u120	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 4.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u121	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u122	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u123	Senator Iannone, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u124	Mr President, I maintain Amendment 4.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u125	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment 6.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u126	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u127	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u128	Senator Iannone, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u129	Mr President, I maintain Amendment 6.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u130	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.0.2 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator De Carlo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.1, tabled by Senator Drago. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.2 tabled by Senators Iannone and Barbaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1 tabled by Senators Iannone and Drago. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u133	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the measure under consideration is an intervention which the university students of the study courses listed in it have been asking for for a long time, wondering why it did not work in Italy as it did in other countries. With the approval of the bill under consideration will be added a further piece to that reform born in the middle of the pandemic emergency when, with the law n. 18 of 2020, to cope with the shortage of medical staff, the value of the qualifying degree in the field of master's degree in medicine was introduced. After that positive precedent, it was necessary to extend the enabling power to other courses in the medical-surgical area for the exercise of the professions of dentistry, pharmacist, veterinarian and psychologist, as well as for the professions of agricultural technician, surveyor, agricultural expert and industrial expert. At the same time, the measure provides that in these graduation courses one third of the activity is devoted to technique and two thirds to the practical part. It is useless to stress its importance in a country where university education has historically almost always focused on the theoretical part. Two other elements worthy of note are the following. Firstly, this is not a closed measure to some degree courses: Article 4 gives the possibility to other professional bodies and universities to join in a second phase, with benefits for the university that do so by adapting the regulations of the university itself. The second positive element is to avoid a risk, i.e. the mortification of professional orders. Instead, this bill reaffirms its importance, renews its fundamental value compared to professions that require quality, ethics, continuous professional updating, as well as the protection of citizens from forms of abusive or unlawful exercise. We therefore really believe that this measure goes in the direction, several times desired, of professional areas with fewer packages of funnel, with direct link, I would say consequential, between obtaining qualifications of study and the exercise of the profession for which it was studied. Of course, we are not faced with rules that definitively close the issue, because - as we have seen and reiterated several times - the implications are numerous: just think of the great commitment in terms of reform that is being asked of the university system. In conclusion, we need to focus even more strongly on high-level training in research, in order to make it a structural element of the Italian system, as the Nobel Prize winner Giorgio Parisi has rightly pointed out. The path taken with this measure, which is concretely to be met by our young people, students and students, is certainly the right one. Therefore, I would like to confirm the support of the Group for the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u136	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to be quick and brief with my explanation of vote and possibly reserve the right to deliver the full text. I would like to stress the importance of the draft law that we are about to adopt today, precisely because it brings new rules that aim to streamline and simplify access to certain professions, thus guaranteeing students faster access to the world of work; hence the purchase of the title without waiting times, canceling the state examination in some professions precisely to ensure greater competition in some sectors. Not only that, the bill opens up the possibility of further university degrees. This brief introduction would already be sufficient to grasp the importance of such a measure. However, there are two elements of context that I would like to highlight. The first element is the close link between this measure and the PNRR: this is an important link between the university world and the world of work. The other element, which raises more than one concern, comes from the alarming data that once again state that in Italy only 19%, in the range of twenty-five to sixty-four years, has tertiary education, compared to the average reported by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) that is around 37 percent. These data already alarm us and ask us about an overall assessment of the current system, even in the face of a working system that is looking for more and more specialized professionals. However, allow me to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues in my Commission and all the committees who have worked on the text, and also to thank Mrs Mass, who did not just inherit a measure from the previous Commission, but laid the foundations for a comparison that could achieve the improvements that have been achieved at the time of the adoption of the measure in the Commission. Certainly, as the Minister knows for confronting us during the Commission, it is regrettable that the requests from other representatives of civil society have not been fully heard, which unfortunately are not covered by the law. The Italia Viva-PSI Group has tried to be a spokesperson for those needs and demands; I think - for example - of the proposal that we had put forward regarding the modification of the requirements for access to the State exam for the registration of social workers or the modification of the regulations of the professional register of biologists. We would have liked more room for listening and manoeuvre, but I am sure - thanks also to the words of assurance from the Minister in the Commission - that these requests will still be covered by other measures. Finally, I would like to stress that the preparation of professionals with the provision for our examination is not at all affected, precisely because we simply choose to anticipate to a prodromic phase the entry into work, and even more not only through the timely verification of the technical and practical skills proper to the professionals themselves. In conclusion, we consider the bill at our important examination and we will vote it with conviction as Italy Viva-PSI, hoping that the system can be improved even more and above all we can foster a greater dialogue between the world of university and the world of work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u139	Drago (FdI). Mr President, as I said earlier, I would like to draw attention to the figure of the social worker, partly because in this decree-law we are talking about interventions to enable the majority to be substantially technical. Well, given the educational emergency and the crisis we are experiencing at the social level as a result of lockdown and a whole series of circumstances on which I do not dwell, it would be important to be able to enable this type of training as well. I would also like to stress the fact that Brothers of Italy is very attentive to the world of young people, so to allow them to enter the world of work almost immediately after their studies. I would like to make a small point: this type of intervention is also important with regard to the subject of demographic winter because, if we notice, the shift of the age of a primipar compared to the peak of fertility for a woman - who is twenty-five years old - is ten years later, precisely following the path of study and integration into the working world. If, therefore, we allow multiple graduation courses to become enablers, insofar as this is possible, you understand well how one would intervene even by anticipating the times that nature dictates. Returning to social workers, I would like to mention some of the areas in which they take part; they have essential skills such as demonstrating ethical and professional behaviour, giving value and including diversity and difference, promoting human rights and social, economic and environmental justice; evaluation, design and implementation of social intervention with individuals, families, groups, organisations and communities. I repeat, at international level, attention has already been paid to the importance of the figure, but I would also like to point out that at this moment, in the bicameral commission for childhood and adolescence, we are working on the act of government n. 296, which outlines the Fifth National Plan of Action and interventions for the protection of rights and development of subjects of evolutionary age, in which there is talk of community pacts. The term community has often been used since the beginning of the legislature. Here, the figure of the social worker intervenes. Several cases of violence against women have occurred in Catania lately; we have had several so-called feminicides; informal tables have also been established with apical figures of the Catania territory, and it has emerged how the intervention of social services is important to coordinate and how, instead, the intervention of some associations for the protection of women is questionable. I personally have heard a comment on the fact that we are expecting the second call before we can intervene against those who ask for help, and that is absolutely questionable. I simply conclude by pointing out that during the hearing of the President of CNOAS Gazzi in the 7th Commission, the importance of the traineeship was highlighted. Well, you have to know that today the internship is carried out by volunteers or sometimes - it appears from reports - by disbarred professionals. So, if we want to implement training, as is already the case in many cases, and the equalization of the master's degree, before Law No 270 of 2004, we must intervene by filling this gap - as I said here was the objective of the amendment - which concerns Articles 22 and 23 of Law No 328 of 2001, allowing the examination and completing the study of the three years. Otherwise, the graduates in political science, who have their training, rather than seeing them, as our collaborators or among our scans, we will see them doing social workers, without having adequate training. In conclusion, the Brothers of Italy Group, for the perspective I have outlined above, aimed at paying attention to the world of young people, as did Giorgia Meloni in the other branch of Parliament, will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u142	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, we should define the measure in our examination as a revolutionary and undoubtedly strategic one. We have listened many times to the data indicating the status of graduates in Italy and also the employability of our young people who have a degree. These figures do not always compare with European levels and data and therefore we need to try to understand what strategies can be put in place to reverse this trend. For a long time Italy has been a taillight in this regard and we know that there have been and there are also structural problems with regard to access to university, for example with regard to the speech of university fees. We are also aware of the work that has been done over all these years to improve and offer greater possibilities. In Italy, however, other pieces were missing - we are building them and now we will have them too - to complete the picture related to the course of studies of our children, who after graduating choose to continue their studies. From now on they will find an additional opportunity: for some courses, once they have graduated, they will in fact have the opportunity to enter immediately into the world of work. First, however, the presence of internships, practical and different formulas, led them to have uneven paths and timings and undoubtedly a greater difficulty compared to the rest of their "cousins" in Europe. The measure under consideration today and the arrival of the qualifying degrees therefore allow our boys to have a clear path, for access to a number of professions. Among other things, I find it very nice that this path of growth not only offers the possibility of reaching a role and a professionalized figure - so, as was said once, to have a job in hand - but that it is carried out alongside professionals and professional orders. It is therefore a good thing that there is a sort of very profitable link between the world of university and the world of professions. This is something not so obvious in Italy, which was experienced many years ago and which had remained there; so I think that, bravely, our Government wanted to take it back in hand, making it really structural, expanding the opportunities and guaranteeing this kind of passage. We will then have young people who choose to have a certain professionalism and who, at the end of their studies, if they see him recognized as an enabler in the exercise of the profession, shortening therefore a part of their overall journey, that is carried out previously, through the beautiful collaboration with the world of the professions and the job. I therefore believe that this is a wealth. I am glad that this branch of Parliament is today facing, being able to vote, making this opportunity for our children a permanent law. I am also pleased that, in the next roadmap, this very branch of Parliament will also be faced with the path of the higher technical institutes, which are another key element in bringing our children closer to the world of work. The Minister Mass, whom I see in this House, has already pointed out that, where in this measure, thanks to the work that the Commission has done, small problems have been reported, they can be recovered almost immediately, with successive measures that will harmonize the whole system, but maintaining the specificity of the paths that the law that we vote here today guarantees and structure, I repeat, uniting the world of university with the world of professions. I'm just asking you to allow me a little note of a personal nature. The Democratic Party Group had already tried to deal with this issue in the last legislature; we had tried to deal with it in the House with a bill on professionalizing and enabling degrees for geometries: it was a sort of experimentation that already existed in the country and that we wanted to make enabling. This path was followed, in its drafting in those years, by a person who was also a senator and who we commemorated in this House, because he left us for a few months: Luciano Modica. I therefore think that this day is significant, because a man who loved the university so much, who was an innovator and who wanted to bring new elements into the university system, trying to be a little pioneer, is also part of this result that, thanks to the work of the Minister, the Government and the Commissions, we manage to bring home. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u145	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister Mass, ladies and gentlemen, these days are the rather lively confrontation between the Government and the unions on pension reform, with the trade unions, which, as is well known, having the prevalence of their members among pensioners, defend the category and try to anticipate as much as possible the transition from work to retirement and the Government which is necessarily concerned with keeping the social security system in balance and creating the conditions for filling the gap in youth employment. We know, from direct experience (not that it was not predictable when the norm was launched), that 100 shares, in addition to having had a huge impact on the public accounts (11 billion), did not honour the commitment to create that vacuum of workers in there over the years to be filled to equal extent by young new recruits. OECD data remind us that youth unemployment in Italy is over 33% (33.8 percent). Alarm in alarm: in the current year this gap compared to the previous year has not shortened, which instead happened in almost all OECD countries. We are the country with the highest drop-out rate. We are the country with the lowest rate of young graduates. Last year's Almalaurea data tells us that over 31 percent of graduates, one year after graduation, have not yet found a job. Now, you can deal with the issue with bonuses, you can deal with the topic thinking of lowering the threshold of the active electorate (original thesis, let's say, but still legitimate); the point of view of Forza Italia regarding youth employment beats on three elements. The first: of course, if we want to create jobs, we need to create development: the more the economy develops, the more jobs are created, the lower youth unemployment. Investing in university and school education is a necessity and this Government is doing so. The third point is to try to simplify as much as possible the access to the world of work for young people: it is here that goes to beat this norm, which is a small revolution in the world of work and allows to avoid a long wait between the moment of graduation and that of professional qualification, thus avoiding young people to have to take state exams in order to be able to legitimately and head up, in the labour market, overcoming that phase of passage that is often exploited by the world of the enterprise, with internships or other that do not always serve to enrich the curriculum and the professional experience of the new graduates, and allowing that with the degree exam there is at the same time the professional rating. This concerns many professions, which I like to list for the sake of clarity of those who listen to us: the profession of dental practitioner, veterinary doctor, psychologist, pharmacist, surveyor, agrotechnician, agricultural expert, industrial expert, chemist, physicist and biologist. These are the first legal reform proposed by the Government to Parliament in the framework of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Mission 4 is a big change. Benedetto Croce said that in order to solve their problems young people only have to do one thing: wait. Waiting to become, in turn, adults. These were other times, unfortunately, when expectations of growing well-being were a security, in which the entry of a young person into the world of work, even more so if he graduated, did not encounter difficulties. The times have changed unfortunately and since the crisis of 2008 expectations of growing well-being are a distant memory. We all know (all those who have children or grandchildren) that young people's living conditions will tend to be worse today than their parents' living, employment and pay conditions. Time is perhaps the most valuable value of this era: allowing young graduates to save time before entering the labour market is the biggest gift that can be given to them. This will not solve the issue of youth unemployment, but it will certainly create the conditions for that gap between us and other European countries with regard to youth unemployment to be progressively shortened. For this reason, the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Premier Group will vote in favour of the measure in our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u148	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we will vote in favour of this measure when we look at it, because putting the subject of university education at the heart of the political agenda, and in particular the question of how to make the relationship between the sphere of education and training of a student or a student and the world of work increasingly integrated and effective, is a correct and even necessary choice for a country that needs to make the effort to imagine itself in the season that is unfolding before us. After all, in the public debate, even a little rhetorically, one wonders what the post-pandemic Italy will look like. There is no Italy system that can have the hope of a future for itself, without this passing through a solid, unambiguous and determined investment in human capital, what we can consider the main element that can make a country different from another, precisely because it finds its vocation within the international division of labour. This is, therefore, a general debate that we have a duty to address also in relation to the choices we are making: I am thinking of the whole chapter - to use an expression that does not contain it, precisely because of its size - of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and beyond. On any choice on this ground, at least on the part of the senators sitting in this part of the Chamber, there will be a great willingness and above all a great curiosity, to understand how we bring back and re-collect Italy in a more advanced dimension. We will also vote in favour of this measure on a matter of substance. In fact, we think that making some degree classes immediately enabling the exercise of the profession is not only a simplistic escamotage (and simplification we need), but it is something that makes the system of university education more modern and contemporary and that puts us in a position to equip ourselves with an ambitious goal, that is to tighten the bolts in the relationship between the training paths, the professionalizing paths and the profession, the world of work. All this, of course, knowing that in the meantime the degree classes, therefore the courses involved in this reform, will inevitably have to be crossed by a process of revisiting even very radical: in fact, it will not be the same thing to form a student or a student who, instead of taking the qualifying exam after the degree, makes the last of his exams coincide exactly with the passage in which he is qualified to the profession. Therefore, inevitably, if we do not want to do something fake, the course of study of that student or student will have to be crossed, informed by a substantial change and this will be the task of the university system and of course of us legislators who will have to accompany this process. All this, however, even knowing that this simplification tool is not enough, which I think is useful: it is not with a more immediate and faster label that we stick to ourselves that we put the graduating students immediately in the conditions of being able to practice their profession to the full. I say, of course, a banality: there is a need for a mechanism of accumulation of experience, but also a lot of passion on the part of students who choose a profession because it is what they want to do and not as a residual alternative of their own life projects. On the other hand, starting to conclude, we saw an advance of this choice at a dramatic moment in the history of our country, during the peak of the pandemic, when we basically allowed graduate medical students to do immediately a job that was valuable (to use euphemism), which allowed us to save lives, to get us out of a condition of great difficulty. That choice was happy in the drama; colleagues will forgive me for the oxymoron, but in fact it was about this, that is, to allow young women and men to immediately put themselves in the position of being able to perform a very important function in general, at that crucial moment in order to get out of the health crisis. Therefore, extending this possibility to other degree classes seems to me a sensible choice, which goes in the right direction, which makes our university training system more appropriate, more up to date, more contemporary. I think that, precisely when implementing the National Recovery and Resilience Plan in the first place, we need to have precisely this objective in mind, that is, how we bring back at the centre of our agenda the issues that concern in general the education and training paths, research, innovation, school at the centre of the political agenda; moreover, for each of these fundamental pieces we need to start a reform process that has the ambition to bring this country back to the place it deserves, that is in the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u151	ALESSANDRINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the importance of this measure is borne out in the first place by its inclusion in the reform measures set out in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan which must be approved by 31 December next year. This deadline has profoundly affected the process of this bill, marked by an urgency that has imposed choices dictated by the sense of responsibility. I am referring to the decision to approve, in the Senate Commission, the text which was fired by the House and to submit it to this House without amendment, in order to speed up its process towards final approval. By virtue of that sense of responsibility which has determined and still determines the presence of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione in this Government, the observations of our Group to the current formulation of the measure under consideration have been translated into agendas of the day to which the Government wishes to give rapid follow-up, as well as the implementing measures of the law in question must be enacted. It will also be necessary to intervene with all the regulatory changes that will be necessary, also with reference to the decree of the President of the Republic of 5 June 2001, n. 328, whose reform no longer appears to be procrastinable, in the light of the approval of the measure today before this House. Turning to the merits of the bill, it is necessary and urgent to simplify the procedures for the exercise of certain regulated professions, ensuring that the final examination of the course of university studies coincides with the state examination, because this greatly shortens the time to enter the labour market. Up to now, the path to access a profession after graduation seems to be conceived as an obstacle race, due to the complex bureaucratic practices to be carried out and the too long time that a young man has to wait to see the various demands escaped. This, in addition to being a disincentive for professional choice, sometimes ends up limiting young people in the construction of their future, in their consolidation as women and men who can also structure their own family. This bill, where it is implemented as we wish and with the adjustments that will become necessary, is a first step in allowing young people to arrive first, to see their future realized in a more rapid way and offers them the opportunity to choose how to relate to the world of work and their lives. The shared ratio of legislation is therefore to reach, after years of study, more immediate access, but without neglecting the practical and technical aspect of training. This is made possible by the fact that qualified technical and practical preparation and verification is also ensured in the course of studies concerned by regulatory intervention. In order to achieve these objectives, the world of education affected by this measure must become in all respects the pillar of the professions that will be carried out, with an acceleration of practical footprint that can constitute a real anticipation of the activity that young people are going to undertake. To this end, we expect a real and effective synergy between all the stakeholders, because only through listening, exchange, collaboration of ideas and the experience of those who live daily the world of education and the representatives of the world of related professions can we really begin a path of change. We believe that the transitional provisions referred to in Article 6 are a response to the doubts raised about the draft law in question concerning unequal treatment. As far as the above is concerned, we hope that Parliament will finally approve this act and announce the support of the Senators of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group for this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u154	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, education is the great driving force behind personal development. It is through education that the daughter of a farmer can become a doctor or that the son of a miner can become a manager of the mine or that the son of a laborer can become the President of a great nation. These were the words spoken by the President of a great nation, Nelson Mandela. Education and research are, in fact, the sectors with the highest performance factor and yet Italy has cut over the years precisely in these sectors where we should never stop investing. We still pay dearly on our skin that season of cuts made by the Berlusconi Government in 2008 (which cut a billion euros to the ordinary fund for universities and 8 billion to the school), by the Governments Monti, Letta and Renzi. As a result of these cuts Italy was the only country in the OECD area that to amortize the phase of greatest recession has cut precisely in universities and research, in contrast to all the other more far-sighted countries, Germany in the lead, which in those sectors have invested. The cuts, the blockage of the generational shift, the concentration of the academic system in a few poles, have meant that our university teaching staff is now the oldest in Europe and that 50% of the teaching staff of our universities are precarious staff. I'm leaving out PhDs, which have been reduced by 40% in recent years. It is real investments to lose if we think that for every research doctor Italy invests 400,000 euros and then only one in three of our research doctors can work in Italy. Parliament, however, has long been committed to reversing this course and the law that we are approving today is intended precisely to simplify the qualification to exercise the professions by making the degrees enabling. As has been mentioned by my colleagues who have spoken, in fact since the beginning of the pandemic with the Italian decree cure we have enabled the degree in medicine and surgery because in those months we needed to put resources in our National Health Service, which was short of staff. [[Applause]] Today, more than a year after the adoption of that law, we are extending the qualifying degrees to other scientific disciplines such as pharmacy, chemistry, pharmaceutical technologies, dentistry, veterinary medicine, psychology and various technical degrees in construction, agricultural and forestry techniques, industrial techniques. They are all degrees that already provide - this is important to remember - a professional training with a final examination of the internship, which from today also constitutes the examination of access to the exercise of the profession, precisely in compliance with Article 3 of the Constitution and in continuity with mission 4 of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. Thanks to this simplification we are reducing that period from six to twelve months between graduation and certification and we are speeding up our young people's access to the labour market. We talk about professionals in technical areas that will be functional in economic, technological innovation, ecological transition, superbonus, energy efficiency, protection against seismic risk and food safety that will serve the National Health Service. It was the fourth century before Christ when Diogenes of Sinope said that the foundations of each State are the education of his young people and, instead, for a decade Italy considered it superfluous to invest in education. Parliament, however, has finally put education and research at the heart of the political agenda. [[Applause]] In these years we have worked on three pillars. The first is to strengthen the right to study: we have raised the ISEE threshold below which we do not pay university fees from 13,000 to 23,500 euros, to allow all worthy students to study at university. [[Applause]] We filled the training funnel of young doctors: in 2018 we had only 6,200 specialist training contracts, while today we have 13,400. [[Applause]] We are working on the reform of the PhD and thank you again for the minister Mass, because the PhD grants have gone from 9,000 to 20,000. We are defining a pre-role of the researchers, making it finally meritocrat; in fact, the bill No. 2285, which is being discussed in the 7th Commission, has already been approved in the House. We are working on the reform of the higher technical institutes and in the budget law we have provided considerable resources in the field of universities and research, in order finally to stabilize the many historical uncertainties of the research and to allow all the young people who choose this way to have funds to carry out innovative projects. All these measures are aimed at achieving the vision of the future that the 5 Star Movement has clearly defined. [[Applause]] The vision of a country that values young people, which allows everyone, especially those who come from families in disadvantaged economic conditions, to study, realize their dreams and to put their talents to use. [[Applause]] A country that has allowed me, who am the daughter of a craftsman, thanks to scholarships, to be able to graduate in medicine and today to sit here in the Senate, where I defend the right to study and recognition of merit. [[Applause]] A country, President, that must return to running from the very investments in research. For all these reasons, I am proud to announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u155	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u158	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is a significant one for the whole of this House. I would like to express, here in the Senate Chamber of the Republic, my solidarity and our solidarity to a journalist who for his extraordinary work has been and is still threatened with death by the 'ndrangheta and the mafias of the international drug trade. His protection was brought to the highest level by the Forces of Order, twenty-four hours out of twenty-four. Sigfrido Ranucci, deputy director of Rai 3 and director and conductor of "Report" [[Applause]] , which I met more than twenty years ago, has always been a stubbornly determined journalist in his investigation, in research and in the attainment of factual truth, with the greatest intellectual and ethical honesty. This is demonstrated - I believe - by the powerful and many enemies who today put him and his whole family in danger of life. I think it can be an example for everyone and not just for investigative journalism, as are all the journalists under escort threatened by the mob. I also believe that "Report" can be valued by the RAI company and allocated in a more appropriate time slot of prime time, since it realizes a very high share precisely for its quality. Addressing me to the CEO Carlo Fuortes and to President Marinella Soldi, I also manifest the concern expressed by journalists of the information columns for the new turn that took on the reform voted just yesterday by the Board of Directors of RAI on the new formation of ten areas of content management for information (and not only) and on the appointment of ten new directors, who will have a great power that can also limit the editorial freedom of important information programs such as "Report". The appeal is therefore for the maximum freedom of these journalists and the maximum respect for the information given by the Italian public service to citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u161	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Giuseppe Gibboni, Alexander Gadjiev and Leonora Armellini: I want these names to resound in this House. To many perhaps these names will say nothing, but the master Giuseppe Gibboni, at only twenty years old, is the fourth Italian in history to have won the fifty-sixth edition of the Paganini Prize. Before him, the prestigious award had been awarded to the Italians Salvatore Accardo in 1958, Massimo Quarta in 1991 and Giovanni Angeleri in 1997. Gibboni, born in 2001, graduated at the age of fifteen with 10 and praise and honorable mention at the Conservatory of Music. "Giuseppe Martucci" in Salerno, under the guidance of Maurizio Aiello. From there, he undertook a brilliant career, which led him to win the Paganini Prize a few days ago. Next to his, there is also the great result of the pianists Alexander Gadjiev, twenty-six years old, of Gorizia, and Leonora Armellini, twenty-nine years old, of Padua, who won respectively the second and fifth prize of the prestigious international piano competition "Fryderyk Chopin" in Warsaw. The first, born in 1994 in Gorizia in a family of musicians, began the study of the piano at the age of five and plays on the most important stages in the world, receiving wide success and positive critical comments. Leonora, born in 1992, was awarded ten years ago at the same competition "Fryderyk Chopin" in Warsaw for the extraordinary musicality and beauty of sound. This competition, a few days ago, saw her win a fifth prize, which is worth gold, allowing her to arrive at the final of one of the most important competitions in the world. Today I want to dedicate this late session to them, to our young people who bring Italian art around the world and to all the musicians who with tenacity, perseverance and self-denial make us proud to be Italian. However, there is only one regret, which is also a commitment together: news of the prestigious prizes won by our compatriots has not been given enough time by the information channels. It is a shame not to celebrate such successes and miss the opportunity to bring young and old to music. Then I want to take care of it by resonating their names in this solemn Chamber and thanking these three boys. At the same time, a commitment must also be made: that the right to art is guaranteed to all children and not only to the children of musicians, as our Constitution tells us. This is a commitment that we must make together in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u164	Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking today to call for answers on the serious situation and to denounce the serious difficulties faced by prison police personnel in the prison of Turin, which, subjected to massacred shifts, is at the limit of forces. This situation was denounced on 19 October jointly by the trade union trade unions Autonomous Union of Prison Police (Sappe), Autonomous Trade Union Organization of Prison Police (OSAPP), Italian Union of Work-Public Administration (UILPA), Autonomous National Union of Prison Police (Sinappe), National Security Federation-Italian Confederation of Workers Trade Unions (FNS CISL), National Coordination of Prison Police (CNPP) and Italian General Confederation of Labour (CGIL) and was the subject of a question submitted by Senator Bergesio, also signed by Piedmontese colleagues, Senators Casolati, Montani and Pianasso, and by me. The tones of the joint communiqué are worrying. The unions denounce: we are in total chaos. I would point out that in the past we have asked a number of questions about the disorganization and discomfort of prison police personnel, in particular those who work in the prison of Turin. The last one is of 21 September, signed by myself and other colleagues, but the reports and communications now in common of all the trade union acronyms continue to arrive daily. That means the prison police forces have come to an end. Tension, tiredness and psychophysical stress, already highlighted at high levels in the past months, were further aggravated in October due to lack of staff, calls in service despite planned rest and shifts changed or completely upset without notice. Even, it seems that the upcoming holidays of the Christmas period could be at risk. In the prison of Turin, therefore, the staff is exhausted, so much so that there is an increase in danger for everyone, and the health of the staff of women and men prison police is at serious risk. The subject of the reform of justice has been put before the Government in the matter of PNRR and we are well aware of the sensitivity of Minister Cartabia on the subject, which we therefore urge for prompt intervention not only in the future plans, but also and especially in the immediate, in the prison of Turin, but also throughout Italy. It is very recent the news of seven prison police officers injured and intoxicated in Como, due to the violent and incendiary reaction of a prisoner; the episodes are no longer counted. We therefore call for an increase in the staff of the prison police, perhaps already on the occasion of the next budget law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u167	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to ask for the answer to Question 3-02716, which we filed on 15 July last at sitting No 347 on the obsolescence of oncology radiotherapy implants. In the National Recovery and Resilience Plan the replacement of eighty-two of these plants is established, but the studies in this regard denounce the need to quickly replace at least two hundred, as absolutely obsolete, because older than ten years (and I add that in this period of time technology in implants for cancer radiotherapy has made huge steps). Evidently, the huge number of outstanding performances due to the pandemic (and above all, in this case, treatment and diagnostics) are added to this problem. It therefore emerges the need to understand where these plants are located, how it has been done to identify eighty-two and not two hundred or other quantities, which are the regions that will receive the benefit of their replacement and especially if the technology will be used is the latest generation, which gives way to carry out in a working day a number of performances ten times higher than the old plant. This would obviously be very useful when, as we know, we have to recover more than 10 million performances that have been suspended, between diagnostics and treatments, in the period dramatically covered by the emergency Covid-19. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u168	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-372.ana.u169	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 2 November, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed at 13:36 p.m.
