ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 22 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u4	I communicate that, on 24 July 2021, the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 77 of 31 May 2021 on the governance of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and first measures to strengthen administrative structures and accelerate and streamline procedures" (2332).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2332, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would ask the President of the first standing Commission, Senator Parrini, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u6	Mr President, the text of the decree-law, following the numerous additions made by the House, consists of 121 articles. It is a number of articles equal to 54 more than the 67 of the original version of the decree-law itself; on the whole the additional paragraphs amount to 177, while originally there were 215. The text, which, as you can see, is particularly extensive and complex, has been transmitted to the Senate, as you also recalled, Saturday 24 July and the deadline for conversion will expire in three days, Friday 30 July: therefore, under penalty of its decadence, it will have to be approved by the Senate in a very short time, without further amendments. The practice of concentrating the examination of the merits of the bill of conversion of decrees-laws into a single Chamber, on which detailed reflections could be opened, in this case did not and would not have allowed to complete the discussion in the Commission, without making any changes. The measure was incardinated at today's sitting of the Commission; the general discussion was held, but it is not possible to proceed further with the examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Parrini's report, draft law No 2332, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the one we are debating today is one of those measures that can undoubtedly help us to shape and shape a turning point in the construction of our country's future, because, if it is true that over the course of these months we have always repeated how important it was to have managed to bring home large resources from the European institutions, it is equally true that, in order to dump the billions of the recovery plan on the territories, we need clear rules and an administrative machine capable of meeting the challenges that lie ahead. From this point of view, Article 1 of the decree provides, in the first paragraph, the purposes of the decree-law, aimed at defining the national regulatory framework to simplify and facilitate the achievement of the objectives and objectives established, which are, in the order: the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience, the National Plan for Complementary Investments and the National Integrated Plan for Energy and Climate 2030. Many of us in this House have had the good fortune of living an experience as mayor or local administrator, and we know very well how difficult there are in the relationship between investment, public or private, public administration and citizens, who over the years have resulted in chronic delays, which have therefore often meant inefficiency and lack of development. In Italy, on average, for the great public works the approval times have reached the sixteen years, a time unnecessarily and infinitely long for a country that wants to have the ambition to rethink its future and that must be found ready to the great challenge of the ecological and digital transition and the safety of our buildings, but that must also solve the atavistic problem of environmental safety. On this specific point, the second part of the decree, which concerns the orderly simplifications related to the ecological transition and the procedures for amending the environmental code, in the part relating to the rules concerning public works for the implementation of the PNRR, gives us important answers. At the same time, I am also thinking, specifically, of the great issue of hydrogeological failure, which has also been touched upon in this measure thanks to the work of colleagues in the Democratic Party in the other branch of Parliament. However, we are aware, and we have noticed this every time we have tried to do this, how difficult it is to balance the need to speed up, simplify, deburocratic as much as possible the administrative procedures and, at the same time, guarantee the full protection of workers and, above all, the full respect of legality. It is a measure, what we are discussing here, on which, as is increasingly the case, we have not had the opportunity to intervene. Despite the fact that the House has done a great deal of implementation with respect to the text launched by the Government and of great mediation between the political forces with respect to specific issues that, in my opinion, have improved the measure itself, the problem remains, increasingly acute, of a perfect alternate monocameralism. According to the merit, Mr President, I believe that the work on so-called governance has been important. There is no doubt, in fact, that having foreseen participatory governance, not only by Parliament, but also by all the forces of the country, represents a guarantee for all citizens. Similarly, I think it is important to have foreseen that the management of the funds and all related processes should be the key to Parliament in all its stages. The measure under discussion requires the Government to provide the relevant parliamentary committees with information and documents to exercise control over the PNRR, to improve its criticalities and to play a synergistic role with both branches of Parliament. I believe that this is a very important forecast, even if it is respectful of the functions assigned to us by the Constitution. We know that, when Parliament is put in a position to carry out its task well, the country also benefits in terms of transparency, being the Chamber and Senate the places that are in parliament, the places that are the symbol of debate and confrontation. I also think it is worth noting the result that has also been achieved thanks to the work of Mr Ceccanti in the Chamber and that, in Article 8-a, it results in the introduction of an obligation, within the Government, to send Parliament regular reports, which make us understand better where we are with the production of implementing measures, which, as we all know very well, so often are the ultimate obstacle to the implementation of many initiatives, which, even if deliberated by Parliament, remain standing by the stake. Turning instead to the articles that make up Chapter VII of the measure under consideration, namely the provisions on energy efficiency, we see that the latter are largely intended to accompany certain actions specifically listed in the PNRR. These include, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, those linked to energy transition and sustainable mobility. On these issues we will be called, more and more frequently, to choices that are not simple, but of absolute importance. The last G20 on the environment, the climate agreements and the Fit for 55 plan trace the boundaries within which we will be called to make our choices. It is clear that building a simpler system, with a less slow and cumbersome bureaucratic apparatus, also means being able to achieve, sooner and better, those objectives that, in the European and international spheres, Italy is committed to achieving. I am thinking, for example, of the whole issue of decarbonisation and the use of renewable sources. Equally important is the provision in Article 33, which recognizes the deduction to 110% (the so-called superbonus), also for interventions aimed at the elimination of architectural barriers, with regard to lifts and elevators, carried out in conjunction with anti-seismic ones. It also goes hand in hand with the further simplification of the discipline in order to enjoy the superbonus, establishing that, through a communication of the beginning of works, the CILA, it is possible to attest the details of the title that has provided for the construction of the property or the provision that has allowed its legitimacy, thus making no longer necessary the attestation of the legitimate state. Of equal importance are the following articles of the measure, which aim to simplify and better regulate relevant aspects of waste management. I am thinking therefore of Article 34, on the end of waste, or of the hydrogeological failure and the unblocking of large works and infrastructure, for which the measure under consideration provides for special procedures, up to the changes for public contracts, that is those to the code of contracts on which, as we know, there is a commitment of the Government. It seems to me that there has also been a positive view of these changes by the ANCI, which has been welcomed by a number of proposals aimed at simplifying the work of thousands of mayors, who, even more so at this stage, will be called upon to play a leading role. Over the course of these months, this House has seen the adoption of measures which are undoubtedly important. I believe that what we are discussing today can easily be counted among the latter. In terms of simplification, our country has an unforgivable delay, which, when transformed into inefficiency, determines the break of that pact of trust that is established between the State and the citizens and that must be preserved, showing efficiency and seriousness, because it is precisely in this break that the criminal organizations are inserted and that corruption is fed. I think I can say that with this measure we help to maintain that pact between the state and the citizens, with the ambition of imagining and building in the best way the future of the generations that will come. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u9	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u10	Mr President, that is the second simplification decree which passes through this parliamentary term. The examination of the first had been the responsibility of the Senate, while this of the Chamber of Deputies and I must say that Forza Italia has tried on both occasions to include what we have always considered the simplification queen and absolutely main, which concerns the lives of citizens. This second Decree-Law simplifications obviously starts with the PNRR, inserts a series of facilitations and recalls a lot the objective law, which in Parliament, even in this legislature, is sometimes mentioned in negative. It seems to me that this should not be the case, because today we approve exactly the evolution of the objective law, wanted by the Berlusconi Government and the then Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Lunardi. As far as the work of the PNRR is concerned, we also skip the local authorities and the regions and go straight with a directing booth, which may create discomfort, but in the same way takes into account the ideas, indications and formulations created by the government in office from 2001 to 2006. Other indications, which are fundamental to us, have been accepted on the issue of the 110% superbonus. When, before the Dragons Government, we said that double compliance, certified activity initiation reporting (SCIA) and a whole series of elements would somehow counteract this type of activity, we were taken for fools. Since the decree-law was passed, which is therefore the law of the State, of course the procedures have been quick and things have improved. We are still orphans of the superbonus for accommodation facilities: what do these people who lost more than 95% in 2020 have to do to be recognized the opportunity to take advantage of the superbonus? [[Applause]] What do they have to do with the tens of thousands of people working on it? We are not happy with this, but we are convinced that the commitment we have requested will be able to see the light below. We're a little concerned about subcontracting. Forza Italia has always argued that it was important, but that it should not be the totality. At present and until 31 October it is 50%, but since 1 November the European directive requires us to be unable to bind subcontracting. We must be careful about this, because if one thing goes well in the Netherlands, it does not go well in Italy, Spain or Greece. We must be careful, because I would not want the proliferation of Chinese boxes to choke small businesses, which are the Italian and not the European characteristic. Today in Italy we have construction companies that have three, five, 15 or 18 employees, who cannot necessarily compete with the great general contractors who have many lawyers and accountants, but zero workers. This is a problem and we point it out in a constructive way, because it is absolutely not good to put small businesses in the position of being strangled by large groups, who will take the contracts and then sub-contract up to 100%, with a figure of 4 or 5 percent: let alone where the profits come from! So we will have enormous problems and the government will have to put them in Europe. One positive thing is that, before detaching users, a certified e-mail (PEC) will arrive: this is an important fact, even if it may seem trivial or little. Taking up what I said at the beginning, what was the thing that we were most concerned about and that Forza Italia and Silvio Berlusconi, from the beginning, asked about simplification? Let's set the rules, let's do things and then come to our house and check or block jobs! The problem - I repeat again, after having said it in the Commission too, public works, communications, to which I belong - is not the work, but getting there. [[Applause),]] because, if we want to commissary the world universe, we can also be happy, but we need to be careful. We must have simplified procedures, as happens all over the world: having an eye also abroad for my activities, I tell you frankly that to build a building, open a business or allow the departure of a business does not take two and a half years of cards, but it takes two and a half days. This happens because there are clear rules, so open and then come to control you calmly (even if they ask you for the appointment to come and check if the health aspect works). We're happy. Simplification goes in the right direction, but there is one thing that worries us further: everything will end in 2026. That's not good. Forza Italia will wage a battle for simplification to be multiplied, to go in the direction of continuity and to allow companies to really have a perspective that will guarantee employment, work, development and certainly a strong economy. We have two alternatives: either debt (impossible) declines or GDP increases. We are for the second option. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u11	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, someone once said that simple things are the hardest to do, so when you start the simplification process, it is always a difficult road. However, now it is absolutely necessary, because we are preparing to manage for the years to come the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), as well as the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan 2030 (PNIEC), and we need tools that allow for a smooth operation that cannot be what we have experienced in recent decades. Colleagues, before the decree of the President of the Republic No 554 of 1999, we used Royal Decree No 350 of 1895 to manage public works. It is clear that such instruments are no longer adequate, so with the decree-law on our examination we are about to overcome these difficulties. In the text, quite full-bodied, there are very articulated instruments. We will have a steering booth, a technical secretariat at the Presidency of the Council, a permanent table for the economic, social and territorial partnership; an audit unit that will carry out monitoring activities on the implementation of the PNRR, a unit for streamlining and improving regulation and the simplification office. There will also be a monitoring and reporting office, which will have to take account of the various state of progress, because it is to Europe that we will have to respond to the progress of expenditure. In this context, a special superintendence is also being set up and there will be some instruments - with respect to the time allowed, we are going a long way forward - because, in order to overcome any denials or dissents by state bodies, the President of the Council will have to intervene within five days, times which we have certainly not been used to in the past. There will also be procedures to speed up opinions on impact assessments on the environment: I am referring to the environmental impact assessment (EIA), the single environmental measure (PUA), the single regional authorisation measure (PAUR) or the strategic environmental assessment (VAS). The measures are many and will also address the possibility of faster action in relation to urban regeneration, energy efficiency and also the promotion of circular energy, through more efficient management and re-use of waste. There will also be interventions and measures for the dissemination of digital communications in the public administration. Today, despite the evolution of digital, we still have offices that often do not communicate with each other. That is why this is a very useful measure. We have a process of streamlining the tendering procedures even for smaller amounts, so to favour small Italian companies and companies. We know how difficult it is today - and how hard it has been - to do business in Italy. There is also an increase to the limits on works which may be granted under subcontracting, provided that the contracting authority determines which works cannot be subcontracted. There is also intervention for the Mezzogiorno and the special economic zones, and we hope that this time the former will respond more flexibly, better than in the past. Finally, there are measures for the extension of the bonus to 110%, for the removal of architectural barriers and for the ONLUS. I hope that this steering booth, the technical secretariat and the various bodies set up will be able to communicate constructively with each other and that these measures will be extended beyond the time limits necessary for the development and implementation of the PNRR. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u13	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the role of the League to the Government is a responsibility and control for the good of Italy. Leaving with the Covid-19 that still looms over our lives and still having a river of resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan does not leave time for political opportunities, regardless. Our primary task is only to work together to improve measures that will remain rules for growth and above all economic and cultural debts for our children. We accept that it is necessary, therefore, to convert to law as a matter of urgency the decree-law of May 31, 2021, n. 77, i.e. the simplification-a decree, because it also brings appropriate provisions for the management of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The measure defines the relations between administrations and monitoring and dialogue with the European authorities, leaving the directing booth to various Ministers and Undersecretaries led by the President of the Council. It is a PNRR of more than EUR 200 billion: about 65 grants and 130 loans; about 1.5 billion just transition funds and 13.5 React-EU. I'm a river of money, structured and simplified on six missions. However, if in public and administrative life we are not ready and prepared, this river will dry up, leaving us without structures and advantages and only with debts, problems and regrets. The simplification-a decree, in fact, continues to streamline bureaucratic procedures. We see with a good eye, among the novelties present in the 67 articles (later reached more than 120), the rules on superbonus, including the possibility that only the CILA is the only communication necessary even in case of structural interventions and prospects and that any changes in the course of work are communicated also at the end of the work. We welcome the simplification of access to the superbonus also by the condominiums (if it is understood the necessity, because only 10 percent of the 12.754 questions came from them), as well as the simplification, because the request of the legitimate state attestation of the property is no longer necessary. The latter thus leaves room for better energy and seismic efficiency interventions, because they have always been complex and costly: they are estimated at about 110 million, which can thus be made available for improvements. The maximum simplification is provided for investments in free buildings, for which a simple description and declaration will be sufficient. It confirms the superbonus for the elimination of architectural barriers, which also extends, for activities of social and welfare services and for buildings such as colleges, boarding schools, orphanages, hospices, barracks, convents, nursing homes and hospitals for workers in categories B1, B2 and D4. The extension of simplification also concerns digitisation: from Article 38 on digital notifications to acts of public administration. There will be the introduction of the possibility to delegate access to your online account or service by means of DSG (delegation management system) to another person and to confer, modify or elect your digital domicile. Article 38-b provides, for utility service operators and operators of television and communications networks, for the obligation to transmit to users at appropriate times (at least forty days) the possible suspension of supplies. Articles 38 and 39 are propedeutic if we really want digital highways for public administration. It is reduced to three months, starting from six months, the deadline for the conclusion of proceedings concerning the installation of electronic communications networks. To face these challenges we need competent people. Responsibility, control and capacity are needed. Seneca said that it is not true that we have little time: the truth is that we lose much of it. And then we wake up the anesthetized citizens' income and start working everyone, because there's a lot to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u15	She is registered to speak Senator Di Girolamo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u16	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus my speech on the subject of public works and try to interpret the vision of Movimento 5 Stars on the stages of the realization of a work by the public administration. Public works in the simplification decree-law play a key role. The enormous amount of money we are about to receive from the European Community must not simply be spent, but must be for Italy a form of investment that will immediately affect the country's economy for an immediate recovery. For this reason simplifications can be understood not as a mere push to the rapid and stray expenditure, but as a real projection to the future of what will be the infrastructure heritage of the country. In order to have a resilient infrastructure that guarantees longevity it is necessary to start from the centrality of the design, because a project conceived and done well will allow to have an infrastructure that meets the purposes for which it was conceived. [[Applause]] The centrality of the project is therefore a real dogma, and the real need would be to revise the procurement code. It would be essential to have three different and separate codes compared to the current one, which instead contains works, services and supplies. Each of these three sectors has a different specificity and peculiarity, which is why they should be clearly distinguished from each other. With regard to subcontracting, this decree-law amends its rules with certain rules that enter into force immediately and others that have deferred effect, with effect from 1 November 2021. Among those that come into force immediately there is the rule that, until 31 October 2021, subcontracting will go from 30% to a maximum of 50%. Consequently, Article 1, paragraph 18, of the decree-law unblocks yards, which provided for a transitional rule fixing the maximum quota to 40 per cent until 31 June 2021, is repealed. This will certainly allow an acceleration of work and we can accept it, even if for Movimento 5 Stars the ideal would have been to remain on the thresholds already evaluated and weighted previously: therefore not a zero, but not a 100%, as Europe demands. The ideal would have been just to remain as already defined and, therefore, on a quota of 30 or 40 percent in ordinary. Why should I dwell on this? It's very simple. We want to prevent finance companies from doing business literally, by distorting the rules of the market. This is because in Italy we are lucky to have a craft of the highest level of construction, an almost manufacturing industrial craftsmanship. And the increase in the thresholds of subcontracting goes against these realities; it goes to disadvantage those who actually carry out a work are companies that instead it is right to pay well and that they must not see their compensation limated because of the mechanism of subcontracting, that everything favors, except they, especially if small. [[Applause]] With regard to the subject of the integrated contract, that is to put to tender a project that is not executive, in this decree it is expected to go in competition for the works previewed from the National Plan of resumption and resilience and from the complementary Fund with a plan of technical and economic feasibility, offering in fact two possibilities. The first possibility is that contracting stations may request competing undertakings to submit the final draft at the time of submission of the tender. In this way the contracting station will evaluate the final projects and offers and will commission the company not only for the work, but also for the executive project, liquidating the final project already submitted. The second possibility, on the other hand, is that the contracting station invites companies to make an offer without even making a definitive project and this for the Movimento 5 Stars is absolutely to be avoided, as the concept expressed previously of centrality of the design fails. However, we hope that contracting stations will only resort to the first option, leaving the second option only in the event of an extraordinary emergency. Finally, there is the issue of transparency, which is of absolute importance. In the decree unblocks yards we have introduced the concept of more congruent offer, norm that moreover is bringing excellent results, data to the hand. The most appropriate tender method has no difficulty in applying it; it is sufficient to use a very simple formula, which cuts the wings automatically, excluding anonymous tenders and in a single day allows the successful tenderer to be identified among the undertakings that participated in the call. With the method of the most congruent offer in fact wins the race with a nearest decrease to the average decrease and not to the maximum decrease. It is enough, therefore, with the greatest decrease, which has reduced the procurement sector to a jungle. Mr President, in expressing regret at the way in which we are not allowed to work in this area of Parliament on such an important decree for the management of the PNRR funds and for the Fund complementary to the PNRR, I must acknowledge that much has been improved compared to the basic text, even if not everything. A further examination by this Chamber would have strengthened the quality and effect of yet another simplification decree. Having said that, as the Commission's public works, the spectre of the maximum decrease has left it in the drafts circulating during the days preceding the adoption of the decree by the Council of Ministers. I therefore hope that this dynamic, which is very similar to that of monocameralism, will be overcome as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u17	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u18	Mr President, Mr Mallegni, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Mallegni has said that this is the second time we have dealt with simplification. He is right, however, this decree is much more than a text on simplification: it is a mandatory act, due to implement the recovery plan projects and to draw the first 25 billion of the more than 200 of European funds. Out of technicalism, because it would be quite complicated and there is no time, and from the criticisms that can surely be moved, because areas of shadow there are - one of these is certainly the subject of subcontracting, on which I personally do not think as Senator Mallegni, in the sense that the co-responsibility between contractor and subcontractor towards the client deserves to be respected, clearly with an intervention on the network of the supply chain - I will focus on three attitudes that - in my opinion - the Government has kept to highlight the value of the decree in question: a conscious and sincere attitude, an attitude of collaboration and a pragmatic attitude. Going by order, meanwhile, the decision to establish a unity by the Government for the rationalization and improvement of the regulation is the result of the awareness deriving from the fact that, looking at our country, we realize that one of the reasons for which it is not considered attractive, especially for those who would like to invest, is precisely the quality of the legislative activity that must be absolutely improved, and - in my opinion - also through actions of international benchmark. I open a small parenthesis on the code of contracts: think that in Germany there are only 100 articles and from us there are 200, so the space to improve would be many. Another observation: the extraordinary channels, such as the establishment of the steering booth, the interministerial committees, the control and monitoring groups, the self-certification powers of silence-acceptance recognized to the private are certainly, once again, the awareness of having to give a pragmatic and concrete response to a system that struggles to be slim, flexible, fast and efficient. The concern in this regard is that all these measures and all the extraordinary channels will be completed in 2026, so that all ordinary activities, if they are not gradually simplified in the meantime, could give rise to the risk that Italy in 2026, rather than being extremely fast, will reverse and this we absolutely cannot afford. Another aspect is the collaboration: with the permanent table for the economic, social and territorial partnership which has consultative functions in matters related to the implementation of the recovery plan, the value of the collaboration is specifically recognized, which I personally consider extremely positive, between the public and the private, between the political world and the scientific world, between companies and workers, between civil society and the Government. Now, if this collaboration highlights, with reference to the parties involved, the best aspects of the parties considered, and therefore puts to the margins rivalries and antagonisms that are absolutely useless and are not profitable to the creation of a virtuous model, in my opinion the road is just the right one. Finally, there is the aspect of pragmatism that has been introduced in a scientific way in public contracts, which are understood not as mere public notices and procedures, but as instruments of strategic planning, of real industrial policy, which have within them a series of parameters of which we absolutely cannot do without, because they denote the modern and contemporary world. I am referring to recruitment policies that favour young people, gender equality, reconciliation of private life with work. If everything I have said succinctly goes in the direction of putting the citizen, the enterprises and the public administration at the centre on a track not extraordinary, but ordinary of speed, in my opinion this country can return to growth and that debt of which we are all aware can actually be repaid thanks to the growth of GDP. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u19	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor at this high meeting to express the satisfaction of myself and my Group for this National Plan with which numerous projects have been prepared for our country for the implementation of the recovery fund, approved just over a year ago, after exhausting negotiations. At last Italy has raised its head and - it is important that we Italians do not forget - the result is the result of the commitment made by President Conte. With this result we have protected the dignity of the country and the autonomy of the Community institutions. The Italian Government is strong and the approval of this Plan strengthens its action. Now, for us, it is our responsibility to get Italy back on track. With these words spoken on 21 July 2020, and therefore a year ago, just on the sidelines of the fourth meeting among European leaders, Giuseppe Conte welcomed the achievement of this important result by which Italy will be able to live a season of economic redemption through - finally - European investments that must find their full and efficient implementation. If President Conte has achieved a considerable spending capacity never seen before, President Draghi and the current Government have launched a dense national investment plan that, over the years, will reduce the accumulated economic gap compared to other European countries and aggravated by the devastating pandemic. I also say: let's remember South Italy. On the subject of this decree-law, I would like to focus on measures to strengthen administrative structures and speed up and streamline the procedures that this Government has introduced. Among the many instruments envisaged, of direct importance is certainly the extension of the substitute powers in the event of the inertia of the public administration. We can't take the bureaucracy anymore. The term "substitutional power" includes different institutions related to the relationships between public administrations and between administrations and private individuals. As far as the legal nature is concerned, it is, in its variety, a power that can be framed in the context of controls. Here, therefore, is the main ratio of this instrument: to ensure that the resources obtained from the recovery fund are spent quickly and efficiently. Moreover, this power is articulated in a different way, assuming specific and additional characteristics depending on the scope of application. The common element is the replacement of one person to another in carrying out a particular activity as a result of the failure to adopt, with speed and efficiency, within the foreseen time limits of acts falling within the competence of another administration, or in the adoption of acts not complying with the regulatory paradigm. The Decree-Law regulates the exercise of the powers of the State in the event of non-compliance of a project implementor or of interventions of the PNRR, or if the achievement of the intermediate and final objectives of the PNRR is put at risk. The specific rule that non-compliance may take place if there is a failure to comply with an obligation; failure to adopt prodromic acts at the start of projects; inertia and delays in the execution of projects. In any case, the condition for exercising the substitution power is that the achievement of the interim and final objectives of the Plan is put at risk. In such cases, the President of the Council, acting on a proposal from the Governing Board or the relevant Minister, shall assign to the implementing body a period of not more than 30 days to provide. This principle should be applied to all administrative procedures in our State. In the event that the implementing entity continues to fail to act, the Council of Ministers shall identify the person to be assigned, as a substitute, the power to take the necessary acts or measures or to carry out the projects. The identification of the person to whom the replacement power is entrusted shall be heard by the actuator. These entities may be an administration, an institution or a body, an office, or one or more specially appointed acta commissioners. Therefore, this is an important measure aimed at simplifying and accelerating the implementation of the PNRR. In relation to such an administrative substitute power, a number of areas of application can be distinguished, which are reconstructed in the light of the particular articulation of public law relations which may be highlighted. In the horizontal relations between administrations, for the purpose of adopting multi-structured decisions, the silence-consent between administrations under Article 17-a of Law No 241 of 1990. If there is no agreement between the State administrations involved in the proceedings, the President of the Council of Ministers, acting by the Council of Ministers, shall decide on the amendments to be made to the draft measure. It is a substitute power whose function is to simplify the decision-making process by allowing the adoption of the final act. In the relations between the administration and the private sector, the time limits for the conclusion of the proceedings are stressed. If the competent administration does not complete the procedure within the time limits laid down in Article 2 of Law No 241, the replacement of another person within the same organisational structure is provided for. If the economic significance of proceedings referred to in Article 4 of Law No 124 of 2015 and Regulation No 194 of 2016, it is envisaged to take the place of the President of the Council of Ministers, who is of a highly administrative legal nature. The changes introduced, therefore, have a significant impact on the stated replacement powers, which can be implemented in the event of the administration's inertia to deal with them. With a single change the Government has foreseen that the replacement power can be attributed not only to an apical figure, but also to an organizational unit. Secondly, there is the possibility that the implementation of the replacement power may also take place on its own initiative, as well as at the request of the private individual. This brief exposition on the nature of the replacement power, on its concrete operation, on the innovations introduced by this decree testify that the centrality of the public administration in the implementation of the National Plan is fundamental. The Government therefore wanted to expand the scope of the replacement power by means of changes that, by entering into administrative procedures in general, guarantee speed, effectiveness and efficiency in the implementation of the projects contained in the National Plan. Let us not disperse what President Conte has done for Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u22	Mr President, the rapporteur's illustration shows the size of what was to be simplified and what is still there. He reminded us how many articles were added in the parliamentary passage. That this happened in the House rather than in the Senate does not matter to society, to operators, to companies, to municipalities. These are often things that - beyond the fact that they are right - fascinate us, but much less society and those who suffer from Parliament's legislative choices. It has been said that the reason - I do not mean the pretext - is that of the PNRR, but it is not that there was no need, in Italy, to simplify already before the PNRR or that there is still no need for it. We did a good job, but we just scratched it. I am pleased that my colleague from Movimento 5 Stars has finally become aware that there is a need to put a hand in the procurement code. Maybe she's missed a few dozen League interventions over the last three years. [[Applause]] , or some majority meeting when we were together with the government. If we are three years late, it is because when the League, with force, placed on the table the need to review - why not? For once it must be said - in the European perspective the problem of the procurement code has not been done. It would be enough to tear what is there, which does not simplify and delay, nor does it give guarantees in the fight against corruption and evil, and take the general lines that apply in Europe. It's never too late, you could start doing it now. Moreover - perhaps this has escaped most, because it was just a week ago - the Commission will do so, given that a draft delegation law has been deposited which, if it were to be approved, entrusts precisely to the Government Draghi - finally, let us say - the task of putting hand to what is the problem with regard to the procurement sector. An act like this is important and it is not that it does not have a fundamental economic value. The Association artisans and small enterprises (CGIA) of Mestre makes statistics, studies and in-depth studies on everything and in these days has made one also on the weight of the bureaucracy, that it piles not only to those 51 billion delayed payments, but to 57 billion of cost for the companies. Well, the delay in payments for bureaucracy has led to the monstrous figure of 109 billion being borne by companies; virtually half of the PNRR could indirectly give it to companies simply not weighing negatively, as the State is unfortunately doing. Moreover, it is in that fabric that corruption and evil find space; it is in that fabric that small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized municipalities, those who have the most difficulties, cannot defend themselves from those realities that know where to stick. That is why it would be important to do even more about simplification, starting with the procurement code. Many issues have been addressed, but not all. The Committee on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Strategic Environmental Assessment (VAS) have been mentioned. The fundamental thing is not so much that it changes names or changes from 20 to 40 members, but that finally the criterion is sanctioned, the principle for which we start from the works that have the greatest impact on the economic and the greater return for the country; it is exactly the opposite of what happens today, because until today the greater the work, the more it is divisive, the more we postpone and send the ball to the edge of the field. It would be easy to mention the high-speed train (TAV) or the bridge over the Strait of Messina. Finally, a criterion is established. More could be done, but much more was done on the superbonus. We welcome the provisions on waste and the circular economy. It is not enough to declare it: if the implementing decrees are not issued, if the circular economy cannot count on the implementing decrees on the end of waste, it remains dead letter or at least something written only on paper. Much has been done about the hydrogeological failure, but better than I will tell my colleague Pazzaglini that he has followed this issue for us. There are, therefore, positive ideas, even though more could be done. Besides, this is a coalition government. This is not all we would have wanted, but we certainly do not give up on so many of the proposals that the League has made and that we hope will find room in other measures. Moreover, to do something revolutionary in Italy there would be, not to produce other laws, but to cut hundreds, thousands of them (there are those who have done so in this House); it should be done not by deregulating or protecting what must be defended, but simply by giving simpler rules that can lead to that result. In conclusion, I would like to bring a provocation. Parliament adopts a European delegation law every year. Well, perhaps a simplification law should be adopted every year, so that, from time to time, the existing legislation can be adjusted. This would simplify the lives of citizens, families and businesses and it is never too late to start doing so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u24	Mr President, the objective set out in this Decree-Law is to ensure the most effective and timely implementation of the interventions contained in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Of course, it is a shared objective and, in order to do this, the meshes have expanded considerably: I refer to the areas of my competence and I think - for example - that some opinions of the Ministry of Culture will no longer be considered binding (Article 30); the procedural times regarding the prior verification of the archaeological interest have been reduced (Article 44); it is expected that the powers of the supervisors may be invoked or replaced by a new special superintendence. That is why I want to draw the attention of all of you colleagues. Much attention must be paid to how these rules will be translated into practice. If we are not very careful, in fact, we will take two risks. The first is not being able to guarantee constitutionally envisaged rights. I take the thought of President Mattarella when, in his last letter to the Presidents of the Chambers and the President of the Council of Ministers, Mario Draghi, he reiterates that the need to implement rapidly the investment and reform programme agreed upon in Europe cannot weaken the duty to respect the Constitution. Therefore, as far as the areas of my competence are concerned, I would like to refer to Article 9, which calls on us Members of Parliament and the Government to respect our heritage and ensure the protection of our artistic heritage and the landscape, but also Article 32, which requires us to protect our health. Against the backdrop of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the objectives of this decree-law, there is a primary objective, which is the global fight against climate-friendly gases. This means combating global warming and trying to combat extreme and adverse climate phenomena due to climate change. So, we have to be very careful, because this clearly requires energy efficiency. But we must also be careful that our need to decarbonise and make energy production more efficient from renewable energy sources cannot, in any way, compromise biodiversity, ecosystems - Italy, among other things, has the primacy in Europe by number - and the environment in general. Let me give you an example. Think of 90 hectares of forest, which annually produce between 10 and 20 tons of oxygen and absorb about 5 to 10 tons of CO2 annually. Think if those 90 hectares, which in total would absorb 657 tons of CO2 and release 450 of oxygen, were compromised and razed to the ground to make an industrial wind plant, with a use of 600 cubic meters of cement for each plinth of the 8 wind turbines and, therefore, also with a risk to the consequences of livelihood and survival of ecosystems and biodiversity. This could happen on the Mugello ridge, for example. Colleagues, we need to be very careful. We all agree here on the need for simplification and the need for an ecological transition, but this can only take place in respect of biodiversity, ecosystems, environments and activities, including microeconomic ones, that exist in those habitats and in those environments. Otherwise, if we think of achieving the ecological transition without facing the problem of the impact on the environment and on the communities, we will be faced, indeed immersed up to the tip of the hair in a great ecological paradox and, probably, we will not be able to achieve those global goals for which Italy today, on the path it was making, can boast of the primates and of which it can be happy and proud. Attention, however, because it takes a moment to make a mistake and we cannot afford it, for ourselves and for future generations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u26	Mr President, Madam Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I want to make two points, one of method and one of merit. We have already repeated this many times in this House, but unfortunately we have been the only vox in the desert clamantis and I do not think that things have changed. We have to discuss - more than anything else to take note - the conversion of a decree-law without this branch of Parliament being able to move a leaf; it can intervene with a minimum of amendment; it can make such a measure compatible with the needs that the history of each of us, in this House, has matured. Many of us have been municipal, provincial and regional administrators and therefore know perfectly well, in terms of sburocratizzare and streamlined procedures, what are the needs and expectations. This measure required robust parliamentary intervention, that is, representatives of the citizens, because many times the measures are the children of the ministerial bureaucracy, especially when the heads of the ministries are not political, but people of civil society and therefore hostage - if I may say so - of the bureaucrats of their ministries. That is why Parliament's role is precisely to update and transfer the amount of experience that each of us has acquired in our political activities, in the measures that are needed by our citizens. Therefore, I hope that I will no longer be forced to examine closed-box measures, with all due respect for the work done by my colleagues in the House, who almost doubled the number of articles. This is the question of method. As far as the question of substance is concerned, we can only be in favour of an intervention which aims not only to speed up and make certain the times in administrative procedures. There is a cultural leap that no one has pointed out and highlighted. There is a change of paradigm, i.e. the citizen, whether it be an entrepreneur, user or any other person, is no longer seen as the one who wants to defraud the State, the Municipality or the administration: it is seen as a person with whom one must cooperate. Therefore, it is the public administration that is at the service of the citizen and not vice versa. It probably took the authority of President Draghi, but it also took Damocles' sword of the timing imposed by Europe to be able to have the first 25 billion euros and then, to expire, to 209 billion euros. Then this situation will well come: not all evils may come to harm, if our country changes and reverses the course. There are many initiatives in the measure under consideration that have been battle horses of our Group, of our movement, of our party, from precisely the time certain in the granting of authorizations and in the valorization of the silence-acceptance of the public administration. It is clear that the Government had to bring in a number of bodies that have the task of monitoring and verifying in concrete terms the progress of the execution and the realization of the projects, which are always a consequence of the need to obtain those sums. In this regard too, we have always filled our mouths with the ecological transition and the change of gear compared to being slaves to fossil energy, but we have created a series of poles for renewable energy. We all want to free ourselves from the slavery of coal, but nobody wants to realize wind farms or photovoltaic panels on their territory. Therefore, this regulatory intervention allows us to have certain times and really encourage the ecological transition, which is fundamental. In terms of digitisation we need to make very important progress, and I hope that these rules do not have the life of the PNRR because we would risk having accelerated for so long and then going back. I hope that these rules can be applied on a regime basis. I quote a fundamental one. The rule for which it is not possible to use the TAR and to have the suspension for a work concerning the PNRR has been established. Well, I would personally extend it to all the activities of the public administration, because this is really a cancer that prevents the development of our territory. Therefore, I hope that the measures envisaged will be the beginning of a new season and that, improved certainly, they can be applied to the regime, and not at an exceptional stage such as the one we are experiencing and that we cannot afford luxury... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Thank you, President. You elegantly reminded me that my time is up. In conclusion, that which we are examining is certainly a measure which we support and which we hope will be further improved on the next occasion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u27	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to remind the audience, which is not this House but outside of here, that the decree-law we are dealing with is also of great importance to the Mezzogiorno. Above all, I would like to stress this aspect with regard to some psychological terrorist who is outside the House or Senate buildings, even if someone is also in here, but I don't see him right now. Who are these terrorists? Those who say that with this Plan the Mezzogiorno does not have the attention it deserves. In fact, this is not the case, because the program pays attention to our country, to Italy all, so also to the Mezzogiorno. In particular, the text dedicates some articles to the Mezzogiorno where it considers the reform, although as a beginning, of the ZES, of the internal areas, of the governance of the Agency for territorial cohesion, of the acceleration of the confiscation procedures of the goods removed from the mafia. These are measures that make the League very proud, considering that the project for the Mezzogiorno that we presented with Matteo Salvini a few months ago, entitled "South." The League. Italy's focus is on ZES and internal areas. Then there is the amendment that concerns the famous 40%, but on this return later. What do I mean in this House, President? In reality the problem for the Mezzogiorno was represented by two figures: on the one hand, the pessimistic pontificators; on the other hand, the incapable rulers. Who are the pessimistic pontificators? Those who have to create the pathos, without which the play does not come out for good, and who always say that something is wrong; they strive to put in the field very articulated philosophies, in some cases even distorted, but never concrete actions able to guarantee growth and development. For example, the current pessimistic pontificators are those who would like to make paperwork of the reform of the criminal proceedings of Cartabia; which is neither in heaven nor on earth because it is an important reform for our country, but also and especially for the PNRR. Then there are the incapable rulers, those who have had millions and millions of resources in these years that have been squandered because there has been no growth. I was thinking today with a friend of mine: if even today, as forty years ago, so many young and old continue to emigrate from the South to go and look for work elsewhere, obviously something did not work. If it takes twenty-thirty years to create an infrastructure, be it road or a water pipeline to bring water into the fields, something obviously did not work. Let's put the "I" on the "I" in relation to the amendment I was talking about earlier. An amendment also signed by the League, which inserts within Article 2, paragraph 6-bis, which I try to mark in capital letters so that the psychological terrorists who are outside can understand it, according to which the South must be allocated at least - and I stress at least - 40% of the resources provided for by the PNRR that have not yet been allocated territorially. To these resources must be added those already allocated territorially within the PNRR. They are, therefore, resources that go well beyond 40% of the entire ceiling available. We've said what it takes, as we've done before. We have had so many resources from Europe. Now we would prefer to make a qualitative leap, that is, to understand what the South needs: to make strategy, not to make customers, to look to the future and not to today. Above all, we need to understand how to invest these resources. Mr President, we must understand that this is an historic opportunity for Italy, but even more so for the Mezzogiorno. It is a historic opportunity to shorten the distances between the territories, which cannot be consumed as it has been done in the past. We're still in Objective 1. I remember that when my Region returned to Objective 1 there was a general exultation by that left-wing ruling class that administered our Region; it rejoiced, because it did not perceive that remaining in Objective 1 was a defeat, since we had not yet achieved those results that we should have achieved in previous years. They are not interested in the growth of a territory or a community; they are interested in having resources to spend, more or less to the necessity, without a strategic vision. This is the point of demarcation, beyond which we can no longer go now. It's now or never. Vision, courage and responsibility. [[Applause]] What's the recipe? Enough with the tantalizing whining of these sad and pessimistic pontificators. Enough with the chronic incompetence of incapable rulers, who are arid in ideas and immobile in action. Let us move forward with the builders of the future, because they have pride and pride. This is what Italy needs; this is what the South needs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u29	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I am speaking today for a political reason of primary importance, which is a pride to me, to my political strength and I believe also for all those who want to do a real service to the community in politics. I'm talking about the fight against lawlessness. The billions of funds that will come to our country thanks to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, had - let us always remember - thanks to the excellent work done by the previous Government Count II, supported by the Movimento 5 Stars, clearly gorge many. We must therefore be good not only at spending them quickly and well, in order to advance expenditure on Europe, but also - more importantly - at spending them in compliance with the rules. That is why I am speaking. Unfortunately, this week, through some media, and - alas - some of our colleagues too, I have witnessed a real campaign of disinformation on the decree-law simplifications- bis. Some argue that with simplified procedures relating to the 110% superbonus, introduced by this measure, it would open up to sanatories and building allowances. It's not like that. We have to say it now and send the right message. The 110 - percent superbonus does not in any way affect sanatories and condones. [[Applause]] That is why I have to intervene, to re-establish some sort of truth operation. I remember that already in September 2018, with the decree-Law Genoa, some shouted at the scandal, because that provision would allow the pardon to Ischia (who forgets it? An incredible thing). Then the story and the facts proved us right: Ischia was not pardoned. [[Applause]] We reaffirm that with the decree-simplifications- bis there is no kind of sanatorium, there is no type of building pardon. But above all we reiterate that, as long as the 5 Star Movimento is part of a government of this country, we will never see these things. From the 110% superbonus our country has received a very high economic boost. We are talking about several billion euros. Our country has become the first of the European economies in which we have reached and even exceeded the levels of production in the construction sector of the period before the Covid-19. Let us imagine that today, although we are in the wake of the economic and pandemic crisis (because it has not yet been overcome), more than 4 billion euros are recognised as the transfer of tax credit. Do you know why it's only four? Because the Government still does not guarantee the extension of the superbonus deadline to at least 2023. It is enough to think that today the construction sector is so crucial to the point that it scored more than 36 percent on an annual basis: these are huge numbers. We had already listened to the voices of those who asked us for help to simplify the procedures on the superbonus and a concrete proposal we had already made in the decree-law supports with an amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars, which proposed that for the interventions on which to recognize the superbonus would suffice a simple communication of beginning to secure works, because they were compared to interventions of construction renovation. It's very simple: it's extraordinary maintenance, a bit like when some of us have to make the plaster at home or replace the tiles on the cover. That is an extraordinary maintenance that is done with the so-called CILA. In addition we have established that the legitimate status of the property is not required. This does not mean that it can be done on an illegitimate property; the legitimate state of the property is not required and colleagues who laugh ask to read the article well. It is only necessary to certify the title, the authorization of the last measure or if the house was completed before 1 September 1967. But that doesn't mean that you condon the illegitimate parts, absolutely not. On the contrary, the thing is much simpler: let's take the example of Giuseppe who lives in a condominium in Rome with fifty housing units and maybe in some housing unit someone does not want to let the technician in because he has the height disfigured internally from the one he has communicated to the Municipality or that someone else has the abusive verandas (the main abuse in Italy maybe happens on the verandas). Why must Joseph and all the condo on all the legitimate common part not be recognized as the superbonus 110 percent? There's no reason. All of us have been bombarded by e-mails that called for help in this regard and that is why we, with a part of article 33 of the Decree-Law simplifications, have helped these people who want to make the house energy efficient or improve it from an anti-seismic point of view. It is therefore expected that, when the legitimate party is identified, only the illegitimate one cannot be resorted to superbonus, and there is no provision for making legitimate something that is illegitimate. The superbonus therefore does not affect neither the legitimacy of the property, nor the illegality of the property, nor the illegitimate parts of the property itself. That's clear. [[Applause]] In order to give even more regulatory force to this concept, in an amendment passed in the phase of conversion of the decree-law to the House, signed by all parliamentary forces, it is expected the possibility to intervene also on possible irregularities emerged from the ex post controls. Formal violations do not affect the whole superbonus, but only affect the irregularities found, and in the case of infringements the benefit falls only on the disputed part and not on the whole of the facility. It is easy, simple and elementary, and those who pretend not to see play dirty. With an amendment we allow to derogate from the distances in case of realization of the anti-seismic cord or the thermal coat, as we give the possibility up to thirty months to change the residence for those who buy a house on which you operate with the superbonus. Real estate restructuring companies that knock down and rebuild can also have thirty months if they take advantage of the superbonus. Finally, there is some information on free construction, which is valid provided that the description is made in the CILA. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that the hope is that this extension will come before the 2022 budget law: President Draghi, Minister Giovannini in the week and Minister Franco at the hearing last week in the Joint Finance Commissions have committed themselves to this. For the Movimento 5 Stars, however, this must happen before December 2021. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u31	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u32	Mr President, before I begin my presentation, I have an obligation to say something about what has just been said. In Article 33 it is specified that for the works referred to in the 110% superbonus the title is not required, which clearly opens a huge flaw, because any communication is made to the institutions must always be documented also with the title enabled. But, above all, since we absolutely did not want the measure of 110% to be affected by the small discrepancies, already in the Decree simplifications- bis, that of the Government Count II, had taken care to eliminate in the evaluation of the feasibility of the work the small discrepancies, which were already not considered. We'll talk about Ischia another time. As far as this measure is concerned, the method must be clearly assessed: 121 articles, brought to the Senate on July 24 and which must be fired by the 30th. In the first Commission's explanatory report, it is very clear, black and white, that the practice now is that it is only a House that evaluates the measures. This is very serious, because we are implementing constitutional reforms in fact, even though we have seen that the Italian people had spoken differently, but there is little time. We all say that this measure tends to simplify the process, because it is necessary to carry out the works and invest the money that comes to us from the PNRR as soon as possible and in the best possible way. That's right. Who could disagree with that? I agree, but the method is absolutely wrong. First of all it is an old method and therefore also verified, it is not only wrong for an assessment that comes from a prejudice. It has deep roots in the furrow traced by Guido Carli, the same in which our Prime Minister Draghi grew up. We know very well that the evils of this inefficiency were born in 1991, when Guido Carli wrote a letter to the Republic on how there was a need for zero growth in the number of civil servants and to privatise, to hit pensions and wages and, again, to contain wages within the planned rate of inflation. Over the next three years, between termination of service, placement and rest, we should have 200,000 fewer employees. How could we believe that the public administration - the supervisors - could in the future be efficient in controlling the public, the public good? How could we believe that this would lead to an efficiency of the machine? There are clearly many other things to be emphasized, such as the fact that in Parliament we need to replace that political part which for two decades has tended to give space to welfare in plain terms, because we need to discourage the tendency to have public health and education and encourage privatisation. We all already knew, before voting for this Government, that Draghi is a pupil of Guido Carli - we are clearly talking about excellence, a private banking eminence - and that he learned the first steps from him. In 2015, thanks to Canton, there was a revision of the 2001 target law, which in fifteen years managed to achieve 15% of the works, one third of the investments. It was a law that created only corruption, dysfunction and did not achieve any of the objectives it set itself. In fact, Cantone declared it criminogenic and was repealed, although with the decree-law unlocks Italy he tried to maintain many of those simplifications. What was the objective law doing? It compressed public participation, compressed environmental assessment, and abolished urban planning. But don't you think we've been doing this for at least two years? First, in the 17th legislature, with the release of Italy and we still do it now: they are old strategies that have already demonstrated their failure, also because, at the moment when there is no public participation, we know for sure that territorial conflicts are born and in the courts. From this were born the movements No TAV, No Mose and the No bridge, because when you do not involve the population, when you descend from above these solutions, you do not first, you do only worse. The first article of the decree-law does not take into account one of the principles of EU Regulation 2021/241, the one in which it is written that it is not necessary to cause significant damage. This is fundamental, because all the exhilarating of this program goes exactly in the direction of causing significant damage: for the consumption of the soil, for the sanatoria of some abusive works and certainly, even with regard to the energy transition, it goes in the opposite direction. We have already said this several times: the PNIEC was born old and has already been reported by Europe as a PNIEC to be modernised and to be addressed according to the new objectives that Europe has set itself. We have welcomed Europe's new objectives, but the PNIEC will certainly face old lines: this is the adjective that comes to mind most often by reading your measures. Annex 1-a provides for new thermoelectric plants, regasification, energy carriers from renewable sources, waste and waste; bioenergy, biogas from solid and liquid waste. The capture of CO2 had succeeded in getting the capture of CO2 from the PNRR, rejected by Europe and the assessment of costs made in Europe on the basis of experiments arising from the 20-20-20 plan, on which billions have been invested, and on twelve projects that have brought no solution. We will have partial reclamations, without risk assessment, which will then be extrapolated from the total. There is the possibility of burning the CSS in unauthorized installations, i.e. without the need for a substantial revision. I have no doubt that this choice will lead us out of the way: it is from the road of acceleration on the times and efficiency of the achievements, but also out of the way with regard to all environmental objectives. This is really very serious. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u33	Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, when we think of Italy, after the wonderful places that nature has given us, the splendid monuments that are the result of our history, our food and wine culture and our traditions, we are unfortunately also thinking of our bureaucracy. Unable to hide it: ours is a record bureaucracy. It must be taken into account, mea culpa and proceed with actions necessary to change the state of affairs, as citizens and businesses demand. I am part of a parliamentary group - Forza Italia - that has never refrained from pointing out certain system bugs and has always worked to provide concrete solutions, now more than ever with our Ministers and Undersecretaries, who are doing a great job. This is the case with what Minister Brunetta has done since the first day of his work to try to make the operation of the public administration efficient. The decree-law under consideration today is the result of his work, in agreement with the other Dicasteries, to which I extend my gratitude through the Undersecretary Bergamini, present in this Chamber. I believe that the secret to the proper functioning of this experience of government is kept in a sentence pronounced by President Draghi: "Every waste today is a wrong that we do to the next generations." In these words of the Premier there is no need for slogans, nor for slogans; in those words the dreams of young women and young men, of our entrepreneurs and workers are guarded. In this sense, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is a single flywheel to be exploited to the full and no mistakes are allowed. Last March, during the Southern states-general, I had the opportunity to confront the players involved in the mobility system, who expressed the concerns common to all. Unanimous was the demand for simplification of procedures and legislative ageing, because with the procedures in force today infrastructure works with a cost exceeding 100 million euros have an average time of realization of about sixteen years. Without the work of this Executive, the risk would have been to spend only 48% of the resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. I provide some numbers so that I can be clearer. The bureaucracy costs Italian companies 57 billion euros a year and this is a real limit to the full expression of our economic potential. Because of too much bureaucracy, which results in inefficiencies and poor quality, Italy loses €70 billion of GDP every year. It is therefore clear that action to limit this waste is now more essential than ever, in the light of the economic effort that will be required of future generations. The decree-law under consideration, making possible the advance of 25 billion euros of the incoming European funds, is the guarantee that Italy will have to proceed at speed, without prejudice to the legitimate protections for the enterprises. The change of pace is evident: halved the time of environmental assessments, simplified the authorization procedures that also concern the production of energy from renewable sources and reduced the expectations for permits for the ultra-wide band. The procurements and the realizations of important strategic works for the entire country are accelerated, simplifying, among other things, the procedures for the works of important impact (I think, for example, the high speed on the Salerno-Reggio Calabria route). Finally, the government has kept its promise to unlock the 110% superbonus, which is an important incentive for energy efficiency and earthquake-proof interventions on buildings. With regard to anti-seismic interventions, particularly regarding public buildings, I would like to make a request to the Commission. A few months ago, the four-year period of funding for the anti-seismic adaptation of school buildings was concluded, and several administrations have fallen from funding due to the obvious delays in bureaucratic procedures also caused by the emerging situation. I therefore ask the representatives of the Government present here to make an effort to overcome this bureaucratic difficulty and to allow the money allocated to be used up to the last cent. By doing so, we will allow our children, starting next academic year, to study in safer places. Of course, this is an important first step towards the complex simplification of the bureaucratic machinery that we have been waiting for too long. To this - I am sure - will follow other concrete and incisive measures in order to restart our country in a roadway without deviations or reversals of march. The race of Italy will not have to stop again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u35	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the people affected by the serious weather events and not only with the Sardinian people who have been fighting destructive fires for days, with the communities plagued by torrential rains and storms that have caused floods, landslides and collapses, with heavy damage. [[Applause]] It has happened in several municipalities, even in the last hours, in Comasco, in Lecchese and in the province of Sondrio. 18.15 p.m. (Follow Arrigoni). I come to the decree-law. The Senate, after the decree- bis-supports, after a handful of days, is forced to ratify in a handful of hours the new decree simplifications, however without opening the deadlines even for the agendas of the Commission, only residual spaces of maneuver that had remained to us senators. Unfortunately, the role of ratifyers of Palazzo Madama will continue next week with the decree establishing the Agency on cybersecurity. However, the decree simplifications of the Draghi era is a full-bodied and significant measure, which will prove much more effective than last year's decree simplifications, launched by the Conte- bis Executive, which, announced in magna pump, then disappointed expectations. The decree contains many important rules that introduce the EIA Commission for PNRR-PNIEC projects, with the fast track of priority procedures, new simplifications for the super bonus, new simplifications for renewable plants, new simplifications for the circular economy, for the mountain and forest economy, for maintenance and hydraulic installation in mountain areas with high hydrogeological risk. Important also the norm regarding the development of the energy system of Sardinia [[Applause]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Apart from some, many are aware that for the phase out of coal on the island and to have guarantees for the industrial development of Sulcis and beyond, natural gas will have to play an important role. The simplification decree is functional to put to the ground the objectives of the PNRR, in particular those of the mission 2, Green Revolution and ecological transition, which with 70 billion is among the six missions the most significant. The decree is also functional for implementing the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, which is being revised as a result of the new European targets, cutting to less than 55% of CO 2030. The energy efficiency and renewable targets, already challenging, will be revised - and much - upwards. It should be noted, however, that while it simplifies the Lazio Region administered by the Movimento 5 Stars and the Democratic Party, parties that more than others push on renewables, decides in these days a moratorium of a year to authorize photovoltaic plants. [[Applause]] Evidently, we are already in the first short circuits. The keywords of these times are now sustainability, ecological transition, decarbonisation to combat climate change. These are words echoed last weekend also at the G20 in Naples, whose conclusions however have highlighted the existence of deep distinctions, indeed divergences with the positions assumed and confirmed by China, India and Russia. Starting from here, we must seriously consider whether we are blindly aiming at the decarbonisation targets that Brussels has set itself, without considering what other global players do. At this stage of the health emergency, which has led to a profound economic crisis, growth and employment are needed. With the green turn, we must avoid bloodbaths, with the sinking of our supply chains. Therefore, for a healthy and ecological transition, it is necessary to adopt pragmatism, banning environmental ideology, often anti-business. [[Applause]] We need to think about policies that combine environmental, economic and social sustainability; applying the principle of technological neutrality and above all, in pursuing the ecological transition, we need to pay attention to the dark side and to the most unknown of the same: the Chinese monopoly. Electric vehicles, photovoltaic systems and wind farms require much more minerals than fossil fuel counterparts. Compared to a conventional car, an electric car requires six times the input of minerals; compared to a gas plant, a photovoltaic system requires seven times more mineral resources, an on-shore wind power plant nine times and even 15 times for offshore wind. These are not statements made by the League, as stated in the recent report of the International Energy Agency. [[Applause]] The transition to what many paint as a clean energy system causes a significant need for copper, lithium, nickel, cobalt, zinc and rare earths. It is inevitable, therefore, that the growing demand for these raw materials, a real monopoly of China, which also possesses many mining concessions in Africa, will determine the shift of the centre of gravity of world geopolitics. In Italy and Europe we will certainly have to create gigafactorys to produce batteries, photovoltaic panels, electrolytes for hydrogen, but in any case we will bind hands and feet to the giant of the East for metals and minerals. We need to know. Minerals are not the only insidious side of Europe's race for decarbonisation. The old continent is responsible for only 9% of global carbon dioxide emissions and Brussels' acceleration in cutting emissions by 55% by 2030 is likely to increase the already strong asymmetries in the globalised world. To carry out the European green deal in forced stages without the other economic powers doing the same, as unfortunately the recent G20 shows, exposes Europe to a strong risk of economic catastrophe, without the environment benefiting in any way, because our effort will be thwarted. [[Applause]] For Beijing, the second world economy and the first producer of carbon dioxide (with 28 percent), today the priority is not decarbonize, but still build coal-fired power plants to produce low-cost electricity, because electricity is an important factor in production. For this reason, in such an international context, in the absence of precise and shared guarantees and commitments from all, Europe must be cautious in trying to be the first in the class, because the policies too pushed towards decarbonization are leading to strong price increases of the quotas of carbon dioxide that have led to the recent tremendous increase of the bills in Italy: 10 percent for the light and 15 percent for the gas [[Applause]] These increases have been contained thanks to the intervention of the Government, which has allocated 1.2 billion [[Applause]] , but in October, with the last quarter, what will happen? The upward race of energy prices will not stop and this will bring our companies to their knees, already broken by the emergency Covid. Europe, which in the face of these enormous risks should therefore aim for a gradual and shared ecological transition, is unfortunately pervaded by an environmental ideology, as demonstrated by the European Commission's recent proposal with the Fit for 55 package. The extension of the emission trading scheme (ETS) to other sectors will bring further increases for all, while the forecast of the ban on internal combustion cars since 2035 is dangerous and unacceptable. [[Applause]] Abandoning cars with petrol, diesel, LPG, methane, even those hybrid of the latest generation, in favor of only those electric ones, very expensive and out of reach of the majority of citizens, means stopping investments in research and development, killing our automotive industry and especially that of refining, which is converting to the production of low carbon fuels. The myth of zero-emission plug-in cars must be disassembled and life cycle assessment imposed for the assessment of the life cycle and the emissive impacts of the process leading to the production, operation, maintenance and demolition of a product, i.e. the electric battery machine. [[Applause]] It would then be discovered that even an electric car pollutes, and not only because it is powered by electricity produced largely from fossil sources. The Italian Government therefore takes action at European level to stem these diktats. Decarbonisation must be carried out pragmatically, applying the principle of technological neutrality, knowing that it is not possible to electrify everything, starting from the hard-to-abate energy sectors, such as steel, chemistry, cement, glass, paper and ceramics, for which, in the long wait for the development of hydrogen at competitive costs, the role of natural gas will be strategic, at least until 2050. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u38	Mr President, in order to simplify the legislation, the Government has launched a measure, which has been enriched with additional rules in the transition to the House, and is therefore full of 222 pages of rules, which will then go to the Official Journal. This may be a simplification in the medium term. We will see this and, in some respects, it will certainly be so, because the measure contains many acceptable rules. In the meantime, however, all public offices, offices of municipalities, individuals and companies will have to study 222 pages of rules. They'll probably have even less time than we do. These rules, in fact, are in force from the beginning, this being a decree-law, and so they were found so, from today to the next day. Now, then, the avalanche of norms introduced by the changes made to the House, to which they must comply and which they must study. And we, who as senators should contribute to writing these rules of time practically do not have them. The debate on this measure began at 1.15 p.m. in the Commission and ended practically immediately, because the deadlines for tabling amendments and agendas were not even opened. The agendas - I say this for those outside this House - are commitments that the government is asked to take on in the implementation of the rules that are approved. And in this regard there were certainly opportunities. In this way, the senators would at least have been able to do their job, i.e. intervene in the work of the government. Instead, none of this is possible. Because of this now systematic monocameralism in fact, the Senate is totally exauthored. For this reason, the majority will have to vote on rules which they have not had time to read, let alone to analyse or, in any case, to change; standards which, then, the citizens will have to comply with. Let us hope that mistakes are few, because it is really unthinkable that there should be such a large number of rules. Just look at the statistics. In the meantime, however, the burden on citizens is considerable. The letter sent by the President of the Republic to the Presidents of the Senate and Chamber these days, would seem written about this provision that has not yet been submitted to the signature of the Head of State, otherwise, there would be matter to discuss. Take the title, which already has a very wide breath. This decree-law should bring about governance measures (of course, because in Italian, apparently, there is no word for government or government) of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and first measures to strengthen administrative structures and accelerate and streamline procedures. Well, despite this very broad title, it would be along the list of articles and paragraphs that have nothing to do with these indications. What's the matter? The problem is that the Constitution and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court say that it is necessary to do otherwise and also the letter of the Head of State says that it is necessary to do otherwise. The problem is that there are no guarantees for citizens. There is no guarantee that the rules are made with a certain criterion, that they are readable with a minimum of ease and with a minimum approach to which it is not necessary to accompany a series of searches, which today, thanks to the Internet, are done quickly, but not always. Between these measures, then, almost constitutional changes are introduced, because the leadership booth that is outlined is not a small thing, since it manages the enormous resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The fact is, if there is a presidential regime, the Head of Government should be directly elected by the citizens. Otherwise, if it is not, if everything remains at the head of the government and if Parliament is there just to say yes to a closed box, there is a problem of institutional holding. To give an example of what can be put into a provision, when you slap 222 pages of rules, all in one shot, under a generic title, I quote Article 47-b the article I saw a while ago, despite the little time available, which is a marchetta - I apologize for the word, to those who know the etymological origins of the same - concerning those who have the motorway concessions, which are, moreover, a well-known category of poor people. However, the rule is not for those who have won the motorway concession after a race or with a project finance, in which there is at least some form of competition, but it allows those who have won them without such procedures to do the work again, for a year, without putting them into competition, in turn, not even at 80%. This means that they will do it themselves, with internal companies, adding an advantage to the already enormous profits of motorways, which are all directly achieved on the skin of citizens and highway users, whether they are private going on holiday, those using the highway for work or even those who have to pay the goods that pass through the highways. All these already enormous profits will therefore be increased by the fact that they will be able to entrust the work to those who want, then to companies or groups of friends, who can make further profits on this too. It is therefore proposed a special privilege for those who have obtained the motorway concessions, without having to work, according to the motto "Ti likes to win easily". I cite almost humorously the fact that, paradoxically, immediately after this rule, which is clearly a subsidy for those who have not had to face any kind of competition, there is an article that, in a completely generic way, in my opinion without any real and concrete scope, says that competition is encouraged. Soon before, however, in the article we find a rule that encourages non-compete, allowing additional privileges to those who have never had to face a competition or competition. How, then, can one be in favour of a coalition of standards such as these? Fortunately, in a certain sense, the Government will put its trust, even formally preventing the Assembly from expressing itself, which in any case could not have done, because the decree-law expires on Friday and, consequently, being in opposition, Brothers of Italy will obviously vote against. After all, we don't buy anything in a closed box and if then, when we open the box, we see things like this, then we are truly and firmly convinced, more and more, of our position in opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this House is also being examined by Decree-Law No 77 of 2021, which establishes the governance of the PNRR and identifies measures to simplify administrative procedures necessary for the implementation of an ambitious plan. It is a passage that unfortunately, as often happens now, in the Senate is merely formal, in a sort of new dimension, that we live - that of a de facto monocameralism - but that is nevertheless fundamental, in order to start a measure that allows our country to be found ready for the challenge of the PNRR, to which we have worked a lot in recent months, even in Parliament, to define programs, measures and destination of resources. As stated in Article 1 of the Decree-Law under consideration, we implement directly the obligations arising from Regulation 241 of 2021 on recovery and residence facility, which has become known in our discussions, and we proceed in the first place to define the organisation of the management of the plan. Well, then, the establishment of the steering booth at the Presidency of the Council, which will have to allow a centralisation of the steering functions towards the various players who will be called to implement the Plan and who will also have to act as a clearing house for any critical issues that may arise, and which are somehow imaginable. The role of Regions, Municipalities, Provinces and economic, social and territorial partners, which are also called upon to contribute in the management booth, is also well worthwhile. It is also good that Title II of Part One on replacement powers specifies a point that we had pointed out in our reports in the preparation of the PNRR. It is expected that, if the failure of regions or local authorities to act as actuators puts at risk the achievement of the intermediate and final objectives, it will operate a procedure for replacing the failing administration so that, even through a Commissioner ad acta, the necessary acts for the execution of the projects are adopted. As all my colleagues know, there have been two points that we have and that I have tried firsthand to make the most of over the last few months. The first is the revival of our Mezzogiorno. I'll never get tired of talking about this. Much has been said and written about the fact that the PNRR represents a unique opportunity to start the revival of the Mezzogiorno and for the resumption of the process of convergence with the most developed areas of the Country. We have represented it strongly in the parliamentary documents and in all the political initiatives we have taken over these months. Even today, in the Commission that I am honored to chair, in our opinion we wanted to highlight it well. We have also had repeated interlocutions with the ministers of Provence, first, and then Carfagna, then, so that the resources of the PNRR would flow to at least 40% to the regions of the Mezzogiorno. Many of the Plan's projects had a specific territorial destination, but many others were run by central government, so there was a risk of losing some of the resources. In this sense there had been some alarms launched by the press that complained of a loss of funds for the southern regions. That is why I am satisfied with the provision contained in the Decree-Law, whereby the central administrations with the assistance provided for in the PNRR will have to ensure that 40% of the resources allocated to the regions of the Mezzogiorno will be allocated to them by means of calls for clauses, as Mr Carfagna has done well in this House as well by answering a question of mine. This is a necessary specification which will allow all administrations to do their best to reduce those territorial gaps that Europe has been asking us for too long to remove, to heal. It is not in line, for example, with an increased score for institutions that can provide co-financing to PNRR resources. This would mean that the municipalities of the Mezzogiorno would be partially cut off from the bans, since they are in a situation of disorder and pre-dissement, and not for the responsibilities of local administrators, or at least not always. The gaps, thus, rather than diminish, are likely to increase, on the contrary, would certainly increase. The rule of law contained in the decree-law that we are discussing today will eliminate this risk because the notices will have to bind 40% of the resources available to the regions of the Mezzogiorno. This is an important and decisive clarification which we have very much appreciated. The second point I would like to make very briefly - and I shall conclude with this - is the role of Parliament. We have already contributed, during the examination of the guidelines and the draft National Recovery and Resilience Plan, supporting the action of the Government in the preparation of documents, highlighting critical issues and often suggesting proposals and themes that I believe have greatly modified the plant that we then sent to Brussels and that Brussels appreciated. Now we must change the pattern and place ourselves in the condition of those who will have to ensure the effective implementation of the many projects and reforms that the PNRR assigns us as a country. The rules approved in the Chamber on monitoring by Parliament, which perhaps - I say with great intellectual honesty - we would have liked a little more incisive and that perhaps we will have to imagine to complete in the course of work, will have to serve to ensure that between actors actuators, Government and Chambers develop a fruitful dialectic, in the general interest of the country to the completion of the projects agreed with the European institutions and to the obtaining of the relative resources. The implementation of the PNRR is a challenge for all of us and we will have to be ready, even as a Parliament, to continue to make our contribution. It's a challenge we can't fail. We cannot fail to reduce gender, generational and territorial differences. It is a challenge that we must interpret with all the best energy and resources. It is a challenge that is worth twice as much for the Mezzogiorno. The time has come when it could be imagined that the local administrators of the Mezzogiorno could be blamed for the differences, differences and different standards in the infrastructure services that we live in that territory. We must tackle it together, because universal rights and infrastructure are not a matter in the hands and prerogatives of local administrators, but we need a democratic and civil state to take charge of it. This is a precious theme on which I will not be demolished; I will lead a battle with many other colleagues, but it seems to me that the indications contained in this decree-law help us to cultivate the hope of being able to reach a small dream and to conquer some space of civilization even in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u41	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great bitterness that I speak about the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 77 of 31 May 2021, noting that on such a strategic measure for the country the centrality of Parliament has again been trampled on. The bill was assigned yesterday to the Senate Commissions and today it arrives in the Assembly; no possibility of tabling amendments to the Commission in the referee, no discussion, not even the time to read the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. This decree-law seems, on the one hand, a clear declaration of war on the environment and, on the other, a gift to lobbyists and environmental criminals, to whom comes the message that our territory can do what they want, without limits and without controls and with the best tributes of the Government Dragons. This measure dismantles much of the detailed work done on the protection of the environment and the health of citizens and irreversibly undermines the principles that have always guided me in my work and in the exercise of the office of President of the Environment Commission. I could not, with the time available to me, list all the unholy rules contained in this provision, but at least some of them must be explained, not so much to you who are preparing to vote in favour shortly, as to the citizens, who must know who are responsible for the disasters that will occur at least thirty years from now. I would therefore suggest that you have the decency not to make statements of solidarity with the Sardinian, Emilian, Campanian and all those people who are to suffer the damage of environmental, natural and criminal disasters. Let us then look into some articles. As a result of the repeals provided for in Article 18 (1) (a) (2), the principle that the identification of the areas for the realization of the works, installations and infrastructure provided for in the PNRR and the PNIEC must take place in compliance with the requirements of mitigation of the effects of climate change, protection of the cultural heritage and the landscape, agricultural and forestry areas, air quality, water bodies and soil. So I ask myself and ask you: how can we talk about ecological transition and the sustainable future of the country if, in order to realize works and installations that can have heavy environmental impacts, we do so without taking into account such important criteria? Simplifying does not mean frustrating the efforts of the supervisory bodies involved in the procedures for the verification and evaluation of environmental impacts. On this subject, too, I would point out that, in Article 19, the roles between supervisory and proposing authorities are reversed, giving the latter the opportunity to indicate the environmental conditions on which the supervisory authority must express itself, in order not to subject a project to the environmental impact assessment procedure. This means allowing those who have the economic interest in carrying out the work to propose to the competent authority the specific environmental conditions in order to escape a wider and deeper environmental assessment. In addition, Article 21 provides for a reduction in time for public consultation from sixty to thirty days, de facto mortifying citizens and preventing them from participating in order to be able to decide on the fate of their territory. Public consultation is a principle borrowed from EU Directive No 52 of 2014 on EIA and is a key tool for ensuring a modern, democratic and transparent comparison. We take away a right from citizens on the one hand, and we give lobbyists a gift on the other. The same applies to photovoltaics, in Article 31. The rule in force before the decree stipulated that the realization of photovoltaic plants in industrial areas was not subject to the verification of subjectability to EIA for plants up to a megawatt. Well, this limit was raised to 10 megawatts and even raised to 20 megawatts in the House. These megaplants, which can also be built in landfills or abandoned quarries, cannot fail to have irreversible effects on the landscape and the environment. But you have also removed the possibility of verifying it, preventing any environmental recovery project. In Article 33 you have stained a standard as good as the superbonus 110 percent, allowing owners of partially or totally abusive properties to receive incentives, inventing a "beautiful" general sanatoria. Obviously, those buildings that were about to be demolished because they were squatters now remain where they are, because the state also gives them incentives: good message for the squatters, congratulations. The last two articles, which I care most about because they are the worst of all, are 34 and 35. Article 34 refers to the end of waste and you cannot but remember how successful we have been, after so much work, to approve during the Conte II Government: a rule that added Article 184-b to the single environmental text; a rule that had unlocked a chronic stall and reformed the legislation on the end of waste, providing that the authorizations for industrial processes leading to the cessation of the refusal could be issued on a case-by-case basis by the Regions and the Provinces, which had to comply with the provisions of the European Reference Directive (EC Directive No 98 of 2008) and the requirements that we had included in the same norm. But we also provided for a monitoring and control system by ISPRA and the regional ARPAs which, by sampling and post-authorisation, would have had to verify that the facilities simply did what they had been authorised for, or the withdrawal of the authorisation if they had not been in order. Article 34 of the Decree-Law simplifications effectively deletes the paragraphs of Article 184-b concerning controls. I wonder: if this decree was intended above all to simplify and speed up the authorisation procedures, why cancel the checks that are foreseen after having been authorised? Probably those who have to work in the mixing of waste did not want to be disturbed and you have satisfied him. Think of the responsibility for the health damage that will result and that you have taken on. Finally, I would like to refer to Article 35 which contains simplification measures for the promotion of the circular economy. Paragraphs 2 and 3 are nothing more than a huge and unjustified gift to the cement lobby. Allowing traditional fuels to be replaced with secondary solid fuel (CSS), which is nothing more than waste, in already authorised installations or installations, without this representing a substantial modification or variant of the permit, represents a serious danger and an affront to the many, many citizens and committees that in recent years have turned to the institutions with a desperate request for help. Thanks to the infamous decree Clini, in 2013, the CSS became magically an end of waste. This waste was allowed to be burned in cement factories, but these are plants which, technically speaking, are not equipped with suitable pollution abatement systems contained in fumes and are therefore even more dangerous than incinerators. However, the biggest paradox is that the 2018 European Directive No 851 on waste stipulates that waste used as fuel is not counted for the purpose of achieving recycling targets. So, to what rule of promoting the circular economy does this Article 35 refer? These are just some of the harmful measures contained in this decree-law. Let us now come to the political commentary. I do not appeal to other political forces, because they have always dreamed of such a large decree, but to my former colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars yes. Do you remember in November 2014? We voted for Renzi's so-called Italy release decree, in which, among other things, they declared themselves strategic incinerators and drills. We opposed it, and that is why many of us were punished with the suspension of the work of the House and the Commission for ten days and were also denounced to the Republic's prosecutor for slowing down the vote in this House. Unlocking Italy is nothing compared to what is provided for in this decree-law. I wonder then how it is possible for you to remain in obsequious silence and be ready to vote favorably for this decree that annihilates what was our first star, the environment. Coherence in principles and the protection of the environment was what made us stand out from everything else. You have bowed down and become addicted to the system; you have sold the star of the environment at the Draghi stand in exchange for what? This is a betrayal that the Italians will not forgive you and certainly neither will I. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u43	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u44	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are in this House to approve and implement a decree which in its informal title contains a password, a categorical imperative, a term that will make the difference between the development and growth of the country compared to the disastrous possibility of remaining on the stake. This word is "simplification," the first great reform without which all the others lose meaning. In the health tragedy, in the social and economic difficulties of the Covid, a positive effect the pandemic has produced it: it has finally generated awareness of the state of necessity of the country compared to a bureaucratic system now become a plaster armor, unmanageable, paralyzing. Italy is the country that has made the ingenuity its raw material. It is a country whose structure is formed by small and medium-sized industries, manufacturing and production activities. It is a country in which the free initiative produces masterpieces, but it is also a country where the ability to create product and work is curbed, put in difficulty and opposed by a complex bureaucratic system, unjustified and now pletoric for a country that not only has to demonstrate resilience - a term that means to return as it was - but needs to grow and evolve. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan - we have supported it, repeated it and will continue to repeat it - is a unique opportunity to relaunch the country, which will have to demonstrate that it can transform a debt into leverage, into a lever to produce profitability, growth and work. President Draghi was very clear in his inauguration speech, in his Darwinian passage. The Government will support the initiative, that is, those who will be able to demonstrate not only passively resist, as I said before, to return as before, but to know how to evolve. The measure we are considering today will require further passages and other moments. This is a first step. The Senate today does not have the opportunity to express itself as it wishes and this is a fact; at the same time tomorrow we will have to examine another important measure, which is the one on recruitment, where we have had the opportunity to intervene. So, everyone plays their part in this integrated system. This measure, however, is the slingshot that we have been waiting for to break down the suffocating armor that oppresses the country, which prevents the many ingenious from achieving the goals of growth and creating new jobs. In order to move the PNRR quickly, it was essential to eliminate the bottlenecks that could delay investment, the implementation of projects, putting at risk the whole strategy for relaunching the country or at least begin to do so. Thanks to this measure, which is the first milestone of the PNRR, Italy will soon be able to obtain an advance of 25 billion on the approximately 200 billion EU funds that belong to our country. Now I will not remember all the simplifications contained within the decree-law, in particular those that are particularly dear to me, that concern the green economy, the velocizations for the installation of plants, the hydrogeological failure, the special economic zones (ZES), the code of the contracts and the superbonus to 110 percent. I mean, there's a lot of them. The opposition says that there are so many articles: well, there are so many articles because there are so many simplifications, so many themes, so many topics that deserved to be touched and simplified. It is clear that this decree is decisive in order to realize the works of the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience, but also in order to determine a cultural and structural change of our state system, decisive factor of competitiveness, since from various analyses, in particular that of the office studies of Confcommercio, the inefficiencies of the public administration directly affect the growth of the national economy, with a loss of approximately 70 billion GDP. We can't afford that. The recovery plan is perhaps the biggest modernisation challenge that our country has faced since the post-war period, a challenge of great reconstruction after a long crisis aggravated by this terrible pandemic. So, today, although we regret not having been able to make a further contribution, but certainly aware that there will not be any future opportunities, we are glad that simplification is no longer just a word, but it becomes a path and a reality actually and objectively. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u45	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years ago, just elected mayor, I asked the municipal employees how they intended to interpret their role, what they intended to do: whether to be a filter between the private and the result to be achieved, or whether to be an instrument between the project to be carried out and the private citizen. It was a bit of a provocation, a bit of a philosophical reasoning, but it had deep implications, because it is clear to everyone that if public administration starts to collaborate with the private in the pursuit of its objective, the realization takes place faster and more effectively. Finally, after twenty years, here is a measure that goes in the direction I wanted: finally, because we aim to change what will be the relationship between public administration and private, because it is what the country needs. We all know that this measure is functional to the PNRR. We all know that the resources of the recovery plan will have to be spent by 2026, but we all know just as well that Italy has never been good at spending resources quickly and well or at least it has not been until the League has become the driving force of a Government. [[Applause]] This took place after the tragedy of the Morandi bridge, which resulted from the experience of the earthquake of Central-Italy in 2016, what I defined at the time as the basis of one of the worst reconstructions in Italy; the facts then gave me reason, since at five years we are now starting to restart, also thanks to the simplifications that have been introduced in the meantime. As I said, this happened until the League decided to change the paradigm and introduce a model that has then become a reference also cultural and an example to follow, repeat and replicate, indicated by all as a model of effectiveness and efficiency not only for the reconstruction of a bridge, but also for what will become our real recovery plan, our real decree restori. In fact, the possibility of spending the resources of the recovery plan quickly and effectively will enable us to create hundreds of thousands of jobs. The creation of jobs, in turn, will create economy and, thanks to this, the country will finally be able to restart. I would like to be able to talk about the measures contained in the measure, but time is tyrant and I can only allow myself to mention some of them, also responding to those who always see the glass half empty. In my opinion, it is a problem in part also character, of political and personal culture and not so much because the League does not see the glass half empty. On the contrary, I personally, but also the League, always see the glass half empty but not already to point the finger and criticize, but to try to improve the measures and do what is needed and that here too has been done thanks to the cooperation of colleagues in the House of Deputies. [[Applause]] I am not saying that the measure is perfect and accomplishes everything we would have wanted (personally, I would not even be able to make a perfect measure). The question we have to ask ourselves is not this, but it must be the following: is this provision useful to the country? Colleagues, no doubt I answer that it is certain that this provision is useful. On the contrary, I go further by saying that this measure is indispensable for me because it introduces measures in a sector which, in my opinion, should be our real recovery plan, namely tourism, which - between direct and induced - creates hundreds of billions of euros of GDP. In addition, the measure introduces instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises, which we all know is the real backbone of our economy. We produce not quantity, but quality. And quality is produced by our small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause]] The measure under consideration is fundamental because it unblocks public works. How many times have we heard here about leverage, multiplier and Marshall Plan? History shows that public works create and rebuild the economy of a country and that even after a war they are fundamental because they contain solutions for the mountain. I come from a mountain municipality and, as a former mayor, I know perfectly how difficult it is to carry out those works that can mitigate the hydrogeological risk. It is always said that prevention is better than cure, but prevention cannot be done even by public and municipal bodies. This measure introduces measures for this purpose. As the time available to me is running out, I would like to focus briefly on measures in favour of digitisation, which would allow us to pursue one of the fundamental objectives for resettlement in the hinterland, namely the overcoming of the technological gap that, together with the gap of services and infrastructure, must be filled in in order to recover our hinterland and our mountains. The measure contains many other positive measures that my colleagues will be discussing more fully. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and the representative of the Government, I would like to begin by bringing your attention to the G20 Summit held in Naples, which was attended by the Environment and Energy Ministers of the richest countries in the world. The aim of the conference was to relaunch and strengthen the climate objectives of the 2015 Paris Agreement, especially with a view to the UN Climate Summit, COP26. Many have said that the agreement was a failure, but it is not. It is right to reiterate that the staff of the Ministry of the ecological transition and Minister Cingolani himself managed to bring home 58 items on the agenda of the 60 and this is a great success for Italy; as the Minister said in an interview, having convinced the greats to face together those issues was an absolute novelty, to be considered as a success of the Italian Presidency, as on the other hand we were recognized by all delegations. Of course, it must be said that it is not a success for those nations that, as usual, have become free; they have also done so in the world summits the other years, in the other COPs - I remember it well, when I participated with Minister Sergio Costa in the last two - while Italy, even then, has always been exemplary on international treaties. All countries have agreed that, especially after the pandemic phase, the energy transition to renewable energy is a tool for social and economic growth, inclusive and fast, for job creation. It's a fair transition that leaves no one behind. The international community of the G20 recognizes in science a fundamental role on which politics must be based and above all is recognized a close link between climate and energy and the need to reduce global emissions and improve adaptation to climate change, what is causing everything we are seeing in Italy and also in other countries these days. The role of the financial commitment of EUR 100 billion, as provided for in the Paris Agreement, remains central, with a commitment to increase contributions annually until 2025. The transition, the real one, is necessary and indispensable, but it must be just and ensure support and solidarity to the most fragile categories and countries. I have spoken to you about this because it is clearly linked to what we are saying here today, where we are talking about the simplification decree, which is obviously linked to the objective of climate neutrality. Let me first of all thank all my colleagues and colleagues from the House's Environment Commission, who have worked hard on this important measure in recent weeks. The Movimento 5 Stars has been constantly committed to introducing rules that are more consistent with the ecological transition than the first draft of the text and, despite this intense work, the text still has distortions - let us call them this - that do not go in the direction of environmental protection and that I hope will be remedied in the next measures. Like Movimento 5 Stars, but also as a community, we cannot tolerate the possibility of burning waste with a simplified authorization in incinerators and other types of plants or the free circulation of solid fuel produced by waste. [[Applause]] We always talk about circular economy: we do it throughout the Hemisphere, within the green new deal strategy and also in mission 2 of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan; it means protecting the matter, but here I have not found simplifications to control and support the dozens of new products that require new technologies to be able to proceed to their recycling. There are no simplifications to improve the percentages of separate collection and recycling; I expected something also on industrial symbiosis, but there isn't. In Annex I- bis, instead, in the list of strategic works for the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan 2030, we insert new plants for the production of energy from waste and waste. I'm telling you, they're no use. Of course, I have always said that there is no 100% return and therefore we cannot turn all rejection into a resource, because we always have an undifferentiated; then there is the discourse of ethics, since we cannot send the undifferentiated abroad, but we must manage it. However, from the latest ISPRA reports on waste management, Italy is at the top of Europe for recycling and material recovery and, as a result, there has been a reduction in the number of waste burning plants by 11%. Technology, separate collection and cooperation of citizens are reducing the need to incinerate waste, so why build it? A combustion reaction produces carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases, as well as other carcinogenic micropollutants. We want climate neutrality in 2050, we talk about decarbonising and then we want to open new incinerators? This is not consistent. There is also no consistency with the priorities set by the European Commission for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan projects, with the do no significant harm principle (do no significant harm). We at Movimento 5 Stars worked in the amending process to improve the text and we managed to win some battles: from vaccines to the environment, from superbonus to savings in bills for citizens. There is the rule that regulates and restrains the wild wind, the one that allows to fix small photovoltaic systems also on structures other than buildings. I am also thinking of the amendment on the security deposit to regularise and improve the recovery of packaging, so as to continue our plastic free battle, to recover glass and aluminium as required by the objectives of Legislative Decree 116 of 2020 on the circular economy. In the National Recovery and Resilience Plan with an amendment of ours we guarantee greater control over the management of the recovery plan funds, enhancing the role of the National Anti-corruption Authority. Families will no longer find themselves in bills that derive from unpaid debts from some sellers and that until now were covered by them on all citizens: millions of euros so far loaded on the so-called general charges of the system will now become savings for families. The 5 Star Movement has also demonstrated on this occasion that it is a responsible political force and attentive to the needs of citizens and the environment. We continue to carry out our task as guardians of our territories and to be a single community that must go beyond the crisis and look with hope and serenity at 2050. The Movimento 5 Stars is there and will always be there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u49	The general debate is closed. The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2332, converting Decree-Law No 77 of 31 May 2021 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u51	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 77, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 7.12 p.m. and resumed at 8.17 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u52	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the Decree-Law on the governance of the PNRR and simplifications, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall now proceed directly to the explanations of vote, which will take place tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. He'll follow you. After the call the sitting will be suspended to resume at 16.30 with the discussion of the decree-law on the strengthening of public administrations and justice. On Thursday 29 July, at 3 p.m., the question time will be held, with the presence of Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility and Health. In the week from 3 to 5 August will be discussed the decrees-law on cybersecurity, currently being examined in the Chamber of Deputies, and on the safeguard of Venice. The calendar also provides for the President's communications, pursuant to article 126 -bis, paragraph 2 -bis, of the Regulation, on the bill related to the public finance maneuver concerning delegation to the Government in the matter of entertainment, as well as the discussion of the bill report 2020 and settlement 2021. Thursday, August 5 at 3 pm the question time will be held. Next week's schedule may be supplemented by discussion of address documents concerning Italy's participation in international missions, where required by the prescribed number of senators. The Conference of Leaders will meet again at 3.30 p.m. on Tuesday 3 August.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u53	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until August 5: [[Wednesday 28 July h. 9.30-20 - Follow-up to bill no. 2332 - Decree-Law No. 77 PNRR Governance and simplifications (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decide on 30 July) - Draft law no. 2272 - Decree-Law No. 80, Public administration and justice (decide on 8 August) - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 29, 15) Thursday 29 " h. 9.30-20 Friday 30 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] [[Tuesday, August 3, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 82, Cybersecurity (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on August 13) - Drawing of law n. 2329 - Decree-Law n. 103, Safeguard of Venice and protection of work (final vote by August 20) (decades on September 18) - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, on the bill n. 2318 - Delegate to the Government in the matter of entertainment (connected to the maneuver of public finance) - Drawings of law n. 2308 and 2309 - Report 2020 and settlement 2021 (final votes with quorum) - Immediate questions pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 5, 15:00) Wednesday 4 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 5 " h. 9,30-20]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No.... (Decree-Law No. 82, Cybersecurity) will be set in relation to the work of the Commission. Amendments to draft law no. 2308 and 2309 (Account 2020 and Hatching 2021) must be submitted by 13:00 on Monday 2 August. The calendar can be supplemented - if required by the prescribed number of Senators - by the discussion on acts of direction relating to Italy's participation in international missions. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2272 (Decree-Law No 80, Public administration and justice) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 40'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 82, Cybersecurity) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours, of which: M5S 43' L-SP-PSd'Az 39' FIBP-UDC 34' Mixed 32'+5' PD 29' FdI 23'+5' IV-PSI 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 18' Dissentents to be established]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-351.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 28 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.19 p.m.
