ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the Minister of Health on further measures to deal with the emergency from Covid-19. I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of 2020, a long and difficult year, which we have recently put behind us, I have constantly informed Parliament, relating both to the progress of the pandemic and to the measures that the Government has taken to combat the uncontrolled spread of the virus, which has turned our lives upside down. As I have repeatedly repeated in recent months, I do not consider this appointment a due act, to be carried out simply in compliance with paragraph 1 of Article 2 of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020. It is Parliament's work and the loyal collaboration between the Government, Regions, Autonomous Provinces and Municipalities that have allowed us to resist and keep the country cohesive in all difficult steps, even when we have been hit by the highest waves of this unprecedented health emergency. From 20 February, from the first cases of Codogno, it was immediately clear to all the people responsible and of good will that, without a unitary effort of the republican institutions and of every citizen, he would not have arginated, let alone defeated, this incredibly strong enemy who, suddenly, forced us to give up personal freedom, which we considered unattackable, and hit our economic and social activities hard. There is no other way than unity to deal with the biggest health, economic and civil emergency we have known since the post-war period. In this regard, the words of President Mattarella, to whom our gratitude goes, were illuminating in his speech to the Nation at the end of the year. [[Applause]] That is why, with the concern that I live as Minister of Health, also with regard to the tensions of these days, I want to address to everyone a heartfelt message of responsibility, for unity in Rome, as in all the regions of our Italy. I turn with the same spirit to the majority and the opposition: we are in the last mile, to a delicate and decisive passage, to finally win the long and difficult battle that we have been leading for months against a terrible invisible enemy. Now, even more than in other phases of the emergency, we need a unitary effort, a loyal collaboration, in Rome as in all the Regions. The coming weeks and months will be very difficult, because the virus can go back to hitting us hard and because we will have to carry out at the same time the biggest vaccination campaign in recent history. It's gonna be terribly complicated. That is why I insist: in the next few days we keep out and away from the political battle, from real or supposed electoral tensions, the health of the Italians. [[Applause]] It would really be an unforgivable mistake to distract us or slow down a few hundred meters from the finish line. A strong and loyal institutional collaboration, an entire country that joins forces with cohorts is certainly also the main way to be close to our doctors, nurses, health workers, who every day for months have been fighting at the forefront and who in these hours are also engaged in an extraordinary way in the vaccination campaign. We must thank them all and be united and consistent in supporting the National Health Service is also the most concrete way to enhance the valuable and irreplaceable work they do. With the start of the vaccination campaign - as has been said several times on these days - you can finally see the light at the end of the tunnel that we are going through. Now we know with reasonable confidence that the Covid has the months counted and that, thanks to an unprecedented effort of the scientific community, with the new vaccines we will also defeat this virus that has hit our country so hard. Allow me to highlight the role of science in this game: knowledge, research, the ability of the best intelligences to work together have produced this extraordinary result. Never in history had a vaccine been so fast: we must always remember it, especially when we decide where to invest public resources. Science is illuminating the road that will take us out of a terrible season and we must invest, every day more, on our researchers whom we thank and of whom we are proud. [[Applause]] It's true: we finally see the light and we can face the coming months with more confidence, but we haven't won yet. Let us be very careful, and let us not miss the reading of this decisive phase. The night has not yet passed: the last mile is still long and full of obstacles to overcome. We must face it with renewed confidence, but without lowering our guard and keeping our feet firmly on the ground. Of course, we are all happy and proud for the start of the national vaccination campaign, for the first encouraging results achieved, but we are only at the beginning, at the first lines of a long and difficult marathon. But above all - this is the point I want to highlight immediately - we will have to continue to live with a strong circulation of the virus until vaccinations have a positive epidemiological effect. I say this clearly and with the sense of responsibility that I feel towards the country, with simple words and I hope clear: attention, throughout Europe is once again mounting a strong storm. Angela Merkel told the truth when she said that the hardest months of the pandemic are waiting for us. The virus, when they are authorized and then distributed further vaccines, will be folded, but now it continues to circulate with increasing force and can hit us very hard again. We must not make any illusions: the coming months will be difficult and, if we face them thinking that we are already out of danger, we face dramatic disillusionments. In the year that is behind us we have unfortunately learned that numbers, in their progression and connection, are like the barometer that, with low pressure, anticipates the arrival of a new storm. In the world the numbers remain terrible in their evident drama: one case confirmed every 89 inhabitants and one death every 4.080 inhabitants. These are impressive numbers that, once again, comment on themselves. In Europe, unfortunately, the situation is worse at present: one case confirmed every 27 inhabitants and one death every 793 inhabitants. As this debate takes place, great nations such as Germany and the United Kingdom are in total lockdown. Britain has been in third lockdown since last spring, this time even with closed schools. Germany has for the first time exceeded 1,000 deaths per day for several days in a row; England breaks through the number of 60,000 daily cases, while France is close to 3 million infected and continues to have about 20,000 new cases every 24 hours; Spain, on 8 January, registered 25,000 cases and for the first time Sweden, which has never adopted severe containment measures, has been given a national law that gives the government the power to decide total lockdowns. In this European context, assessments are also weighing on the increased transmission capacity of virus variants, starting with that of the United Kingdom, which our scientists are also deepening thanks to the sequencing work that has been greatly strengthened in recent weeks. In Italy we do not allow ourselves to be taken off track by the fact that we currently have a slightly lower number of cases than in some other major European countries. Data from the last monitoring booth are very clear and should not be underestimated at all. This week there is a general worsening of the epidemiological situation in the country: increase at the same time RT, incidence, employment rate of intensive therapies and outbreaks of unknown origin. To be even more precise, I report, although schematically, the main data emerged from the last monitoring cabin. Let's start with the RT: in the period between 15 and 28 December 2020, after four weeks the RT returns to grow and for the first time, after six weeks, it is now above index 1. Already this figure, taken individually, clearly indicates that we are most likely at a new phase change: the epidemic is again in an expansionary phase. The data tell us that the RT calculated on symptomatic cases is 1.03; 3 Regions have a point RT greater than 1 even in the lower value; 6 Regions exceed it in the average value; a Region reaches it and 3 touch it. The national incidence at fourteen days returns to grow after a few weeks of decline. Over the last fourteen days, we are moving from 305.47 new cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the period between 14 and 27 December to 313.28 cases over the period from 21 December to 3 January. Despite the fact that the week under assessment has been characterized by a lower number of tampons on the festive days, there is again an increase in the incidence, which in the country today is 166,02 per 100,000 inhabitants in a week. As the monitoring cabin report points out, the incidence throughout the territory is therefore still far from levels that would allow the complete restoration of case identification and contact tracking throughout the national territory. With a weekly incidence value of 166, we are 3 times higher than the ceiling of 50 new cases, considered the maximum threshold manageable by territorial health services. No wonder, therefore, that the number of new cases not related to known transmission chains increased significantly from 31,825 to 40,487. The other automatic effect of increasing the incidence rate is the progressive overload of hospital facilities. The monitoring cabin report also shows that 10 to 13 regions and autonomous provinces have increased their employment rates in intensive care and in the medical area above the critical threshold. In particular, with regard to the employment rate of intensive therapies, it should be noted that, at national level, it returns to the critical threshold of 30%. From the above parameters a significant change in the risk index attributed to the individual Regions follows: twelve Regions and Autonomous Provinces are at high risk; eight are at moderate risk, two of which are in high risk in the coming weeks, and one Region is at low risk at this time. When all the parameters worsen at the same time, we are obliged to take new measures, proportional to the risk of uncontrolled spread of the epidemic. For the reasons I have explained so far, the Government considers it inevitable first of all to extend to 30 April the state of emergency which expires on 31 January. This passage, largely justified by all the epidemiological arguments so far reported, allows the institutional architecture of the emergency, engaged in these hours also in the vaccination campaign, to continue to exercise its functions and its fundamental work. On Monday, through a comparison with the Regions, we also started the work for the drafting of the new DCCM, which will replace the one due on January 15th. In the new decree we anticipate a confirmation of the fundamental measures already in force and of the model for differentiated bands, that has allowed us to lower the curve between November and December. It is also the Government's intention to confirm the prohibition of movement between regions also in the yellow zone; to reduce the gatherings in the spaces in front of public spaces at risk of aggregation (through the prohibition of take-out for bars from 6 pm); to confirm the indication of being able to receive at home maximum two people not living together, as already happened during the Christmas holidays, and to establish the entrance into the orange area of all regions at high risk, according to the 21 parameters defined by the ministerial decree of 30 April. It is also the Government's intention to establish a fourth area, in addition to the red, orange and yellow ones: a white area, which can only be triggered with very low epidemiological levels (incidence below 50 cases per 100,000 inhabitants per week, RT below 1 and low risk index). In this area the limitations will be related to the fundamental rules of space and use of masks. It is difficult for this area to start shortly, but we begin to indicate a path of hope for the months to come. With the same spirit it is the Government's intention, in the yellow area and always in full respect of all the measures of distance, to reopen the museums as a symbolic place of the culture of our country. I would now like to come to the second part of my report, the one on vaccines, and I would like to remind you that on 2 December I presented, both to the Senate of the Republic and to the House of Deputies, the National Strategy Plan for Vaccination, with a final vote on my communications. Ours was the first European Parliament to discuss and take up the guidance and programming document for the administration of vaccines. Subsequently, on December 17 there was a formal passage into the State-Regions Conference. So Italy, twenty-five days ahead of the European "Vaccine Day" on 27 December, has equipped itself with the National Strategy Plan for Vaccination. It is thanks to this preparatory work, which started well in advance of the parliamentary passage, that our country was found ready, despite the EMA authorized the first Pfizer BioNTech vaccine about a month earlier than initially planned. Last night we administered about 800,000 doses: a good result, which currently makes us the nation of the European Union that has administered the largest number of vaccines. We don't chase the charts, but I think it's a satisfaction for everyone to see that today we are the first in that ranking. That is why I want to thank the Special Commissioner for the emergency; I want to thank his structure, all the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and Minister Boccia for their valuable work; Minister Guerini for the important collaboration of our Armed Forces; Aida, Agenas, the Higher Institute of Health, the Higher Health Council and, of course, the staff of the Ministry of Health who has been under unprecedented pressure for months. First of all, what I want to highlight is the fruitful teamwork that we are able to put on the field and which - as is quite clear - represents the prerequisite for the success of our initiative. We have to go on like this. It takes full and total institutional collaboration, zero controversy and a great common work ensured by a constant and timely work of national coordination. I want to repeat once again that we are only at the beginning of our vaccination work: this campaign, which has no equal size in the recent history of the Nations, is a long and difficult marathon, not a speed race. That is why we look with satisfaction at the current statistics, but we are all aware that we are only at the beginning and that there is still so much to do to achieve new results and to carry out our work. We can and must do this by having clear objectives, time and strategy to achieve the expected results. To Parliament and to all Italians I want to convey a message of trust: Italy, the National Government, the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and the National Health Service are ready to significantly increase the number of vaccinations to be carried out daily as soon as new vaccines are authorised. Italy is a great country absolutely able to guarantee a number of vaccinations adapted to our needs. To achieve this goal, we need a large organization, an army of vaccine workers and, above all, the right climate. That is why, by renewing the appeal I made in the first part of my speech, I insist that we leave the national vaccination campaign out of everyday political controversy. [[Applause]] I say this in the same spirit to the political forces in this House that are opposition and to the majority forces that are, instead, to the opposition in the majority of the regions of our country. It is too important the objective that we pursue to stain it with useless polemics that hurt everyone and, in particular, the Italians who, with the vaccine, can and must get out of this long nightmare that we are all living. Units, units, units on the national vaccination campaign. The full success of the vaccination campaign is from all over our country and not from a political side. That is why we must not fuel self-harmful polemics even for the prestige of our country. Today the real problem at global level is the scarcity of vaccines available compared to the very strong global demand. There are no stocks accumulated and forgotten in some warehouse and there are no vaccine manufacturers anywhere in the world that have regularly authorized vials to which we are not guilty to buy them. Italy was the first, with Germany, France and the Netherlands, to launch the vaccine alliance and then to promote the decision to entrust the European Commission and not the individual national states with the role of opting first and buying after all vaccines that with reliable clinical trials were in an advanced phase of experimentation. I repeat our conviction: the vaccine is a global public good, the right of all and not the privilege of a few. For this reason in Italy it is free and purchases are made directly by the State, which distributes it to the Regions. To date, we have signed options for some 226 million doses, which will increase further in the coming weeks to around 250 million, always exercising the right of option provided for in the Europe Agreements which allows us to block 13.4% of vaccines for each contract signed by the Union. In doing so, we have opted for almost double the vials needed to vaccinate all Italians. Everything that could and had to be done to supply the vaccine was done carefully and in time, always moving us guided by the principle of maximum precaution. Now all we can do is continue to use quickly and well the doses we have; confidently wait for the authorisation of new vaccines and continue to take care of every single detail to be ready to speed up when we have many more vaccines available. All of us, in Italy and in Europe, are reasonably confident that the increase in available doses will take place not long. Scientific research in recent months has done extraordinary work, unprecedented in world history. This work continues and will certainly give other results. We are confident that both the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and our Italian Drug Agency (Aifa) will not lose any day in their delicate and fundamental work. Everyone in the world and in Europe wants to run in the vaccination campaign. We are all looking forward to regaining the lost freedoms and restarting our society and our economies. We all know how decisive vaccines are. Everyone, even in Italy, wants to run, but we must do so in absolute safety and with maximum transparency. That is why it is essential to give scientists and the EMA as long as it takes to complete their work. Only in this way can we be sure that, when a vaccine is authorised to be placed on the market, it is really effective and safe. Doing quickly and well is possible and I believe that they will not spend too many weeks before the third vaccine is also authorised. With regard to the quantity of doses available to Italy, I would like to update Parliament with respect to my previous statement of 2 December. To date only two vaccines have been authorised by EMA; the first, Pfizer BioNTech, on 23 December; the second, Moderna, on 6 January. We receive for the first quarter from Pfizer 470,000 doses per week and Moderna 1.300,000 doses throughout the first quarter. Based on the information currently in our possession, the EMA may authorise the third vaccine from the end of January. A date marked in red on the calendar is that of January 29th. With the AstraZeneca vaccine we will have other essential doses available for our vaccination campaign. The authorisation for Johnson & Johnson vaccine is also expected in the first quarter of the year. I add further information on supplies: in recent days the European Commission has announced the purchase of another 300 million doses Pfizer BioNTech for a further supply of vaccines which, for Italy, would mean an additional 40 million doses, of which the first 9 already available from the second quarter. Other interlocations are underway with Moderna, which has already increased its supplies to Europe from 80 to 160 million doses, of which 20 are destined to our country. I would also like to recall with particular pleasure the Reithera vaccine which is basically all Italian and whose phase 1 results are very encouraging. I think it is clear to everyone in this House that there has been a wide-ranging effort to supply Europe and, therefore, Italy as well, the vaccines needed to finally defeat the Covid as quickly as possible. With the same attention and determination we are working in parallel to organise in detail the forces we will need to carry out the vaccination campaign, when the number of vials available will increase significantly. Italy is ready to put in place a strong and wide team. To the thousands of staff already working in these days in the Regions will be added the more than 40,000 doctors of general medicine; the approximately 7,500 pediatricians of free choice; the potential 15,000 professionals recruited with the ban of the extraordinary commissioner to the emergency. They are women and men of the National Health Service; in all the Regions, from the big cities to the smallest municipality of our Italy, after having fought every day for a year, they will still be in the field for the most important challenge, the decisive one of the vaccination campaign. To all of them I want to say a double thank you: thank you for what you have done this year and thank you for what you will continue to do in the coming months with your precious and irreplaceable work. [[Applause]] In this important work, as already decided by Parliament, our pharmacies will also be involved, which will be able to provide spaces and professionalism capable of strengthening our vaccination offer. In line with the national vaccination plan, the first steps of our vaccination campaign are clear and defined: first of all the health care staff, the RSA and the Italians from eighty years and above. They are more than 6 million people, of which more than 4 million are the Italians over eighty years. At the end of this first and second phase we will have achieved three very important objectives: the first, to secure our health care personnel, who paid a very high price in terms of human lives and that is our first line of this battle; the second, to secure our hospitals and the RSA; The third is to defend our elderly, who have been the hardest hit, in terms of loss of human lives, by the spread of this pandemic. They are choices that, together with the measures that we will adopt to counter a strong spread of the contagion, will finally be able to reduce in a sensitive way the number of men and women who every day in Italy lose their lives as a result of the contagion from Covid. Having chosen this priority in the vaccination campaign is a trait of humanity and civilization that I believe is profoundly right. I do not think there can be any doubt: the National Health Service, all the more so in a serious health emergency, has an obligation to protect first and foremost the right to health, starting from the weakest, from those who run the most risk of losing their lives. I believe that together we can do a good job and achieve the goals we have set ourselves. There are conditions for that. I was and remain convinced that in a positive climate and dialogue the vast majority of Italians will decide to vaccinate without the need to resort to the obligation. To those in doubt, we must respond with transparency, scientific evidence, listening and dialogue. [[Applause]] , not with insults, not with an ideological war between science fans and cave primitives. Having said that, there is no doubt that for the Government the objective of achieving immunity of flock, which we will pursue with all energy, remains fundamental. As stated in Article 54 of our Constitution, those who perform public functions have a duty to do so with discipline and honor. It is a duty that we must all feel like an assailant. With discipline and honor, giving the best of themselves in all circumstances, for the most important objective for which every woman or man of the institutions, as all of us Members of this Parliament, can work. Protecting people's lives and health is our most valuable asset. I'm sure we'll make it together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u6	I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u7	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, your kind manners, your always very calm attitude and I also believe the courage to come here to Parliament, unlike others, to keep the information, make you like me, but I also believe in the eyes of many other citizens. I would leave you busy for a moment with Mr Marcucci right now, because I believe that what you have to say is more important. I'll wait. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]] I know, 5:30 is coming up, I understand. I was saying that she enjoys my respect also because I believe that the qualities that I recognized her at the moment are qualities that the man sees in her also only at the command, who sends her, because he is a calm man and therefore with her the tones it is difficult to raise them (and I recognize him) to avoid coming him because he is the real responsible, it is he who should be there, it is he who has generated all this problem today. [[Applause]] The problem of Italy, right now, is called Professor Count, there is no doubt about this. Minister, there are wonderful forms of art that make improvisation their backbone, their manifestation. I can think of jazz, theater and sports. These wonderful forms of art take charge of improvisation and is actually beautiful. There are other areas of life where improvisation, in my opinion, is a problem and therefore the issue is diametrically opposed: for example politics, and above all government policy. When government policy, instead of having planning, planning and vision as the polar star, is given to improvisation is a big problem and if in the first case, in some way, it is generated in the public that assists a feeling of joy and satisfaction, in the second case there is no doubt that two other effects are generated that are poverty and despair. The arranged arrangement, Minister... is a pilgrimage... but I wait because I understand. I understand you, but if you want, I'll give you some space; I'll go out. [[Applause]] The President, I believe, will make up for my lost time. I was saying that the wonderful combination between the pandemic and improvisation of your government has created, in the context of which I am Vice-President of the Commission (i.e. tourism, commerce, small industry and so on), perhaps the worst of the dramas, also because the productive activities, many of which have not even been able to open - tour operators, travel agencies and I think it comes to mind all the world of the mountain that today I think has estimated in 30 billion the default [[Applause]] - you have refreshed them with a very complicated mechanism for a maximum of 10% of their turnover, when it's okay, because sometimes it's 3, 5, 7 or 8. So I ask you, Minister, but do you really believe, by simplifying, that if it was 100 euros the turnover of a year, with 5, 6 or 7 euros you can pay the bills, the rent, the employees and what else and above all you can live there? [[Applause]] I do not think so, Minister, but I think you know perfectly well too, also because in this situation there is a great risk that even Goliath can perish, I can give up the honour of weapons, because if they also give up companies that have decades behind them, they have experience and know how, because you have abandoned them, probably there will be no more land to cultivate for anyone in the most absolute way. In that case, what happens? The people, when touched in the heart, when they are hungry, protest. I also turn to the opposite side of mine: the people protest and it is well known what it means to protest. When he is prevented from protesting in the squares, sometimes he may use pitchforks while at other times he uses forks, as in this case, uses spoons and spoons, hangs tables, prepares bar counters, because he decides to try to do something different, to protest in a civil and disobedient form, and you know, Minister, doing what? Working! Working in your own company. [[Applause]] Doing something institutionally resounding: work, damn it! I don't know if it's right or wrong, but you can't miss the problem and don't send anyone to see if this possibility exists. Maybe there are rooms that have 150 square meters available, which can have the resources and the possibility to put everyone in condition to be served safely. It's dramatic. [[Applause]] I see, then, another risk, and I would like another minute, Mr President, because I see that my time is running out. I am referring to the Chinese takeover bid. Already 730 companies are in the hands of the Chinese; be careful, however, because they come to us - the table you have set up - with four change to buy our companies. There is no doubt about this because they have already broken down, they are ahead light years compared to us, because they are better. We also made him make the masks, bought them for him, told our companies to convert because we needed masks, and then we bought them from the Chinese, but this is all your sack flour. I also think of the concern of the Forces of Order because those moneys there most likely know where they come from, we know what they are, we understand perfectly if they are transparent? What is the problem of pollution of these capitals? I don't know. These are answers that you do not have and you will probably never have them, as you have never had them for our productive activities. Minister, it is very sad to say - and I shall conclude - but you are a wretched Government that has generated only three things: improvisation, poverty and despair. I will conclude with a quote from former Mr Mastella: quiet, children, those responsible... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u8	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the approach that the Government continues to have in pandemic management is always the same. Almost a year has passed since the declaration of the state of emergency, we are preparing for a new extension, the experts inform us that, until we have plenty of vaccine, the stages of the epidemic will continue to happen, but the situation remains the same: come and tell us the content of decisions already taken [[Applause]] , which, of course, are already in the hands of the newspapers, with Casalino's veils, and pretending to wait for Parliament to give you directions for final decisions. Minister, thank you for your attention. Many of us have wondered what they would have done in its place; honestly few would have managed to manage the first phase of the epidemic, considered the prevalence of the virus; but it has been a year, and in this year, especially we of Forza Italia, on many occasions, we have never failed support and ideas. President Berlusconi, first of all, has repeatedly expressed our solidarity with the decisions he was making; but, as you know, patience has a limit, and from you we would have expected at least an apology for having presented only yesterday. [[Applause]] the draft of the pandemic plan, which your advisors had evidently hidden in the secret rooms; a pandemic plan that we have been asking for for months, and only thanks to the inquiries of the judiciary and journalists we find that it was actually a copy and paste of old versions. Zambon, the researcher who has not bowed to threats, should be honored, and certain people should no longer sit at the decision-making tables that concern the safety and health of individuals; and I will tell you that just among its allies of government, the 5 Stars, in 40 asked for the removal of Secretary General Ruocco. We've read the press reports, we'll evaluate the draft of the new pandemic plan. Minister, you called for unity just now. Certainly, at such a dramatic time, it is fundamental, but to invoke unity does not mean to hide one's responsibilities. Since 2006, the pandemic plan has not been updated, so it is not entirely his fault, but by now he should also have watched and brought out the truth rather than annoyed with who asked him. We acknowledge that a new text is now there, even if it is a draft with discordant contents: for example, reading an article in yesterday's "Corriere della Sera" can be seen in the copy and paste that the Ministry should have doses of antiviral drugs and are those 40 million doses that Minister Fazio had ordered in 2011, but maybe it is a small oversight. He understands that there is only one word: shame. He discussed the inclusion of a chapter on moral aspects: will we choose who heals or not? I read: the principles of ethics can allow resources to be allocated in such a way as to provide unnecessary treatments to those patients who have the greatest opportunity to benefit from them. Is that what you have just said that we must not let the weakest go? Let us not leave the weakest behind and on the pandemic level it says that we only care who can benefit from it? [[Applause]] I want to think that allocating resources refers to human resources (doctors and nurses) and not economic, because then you are really unworthy, if you do not use the Health MES, beyond the fact that in using it would thank you entrepreneurs, traders and exhibitors who are refreshed in words, so the famous money of the recovery - the fantastic 18 billion - could also go to refresh in part those who need it. Do you understand that such a reading will give rise to so many of those disputes that no one will make a decision anymore? And, if that is the intention, given the hundreds of legislative decrees that serve to implement the laws - 180 are only those related to this emergency, 180 implementing decrees that are missing in order to be able to apply the laws already published - can you ask perhaps one of your many experts to accelerate on the implementing decrees of the law Gelli on the professional responsibility of the operators of the health professions? Being a race politician also means taking responsibility for the actions of those who command or choose and not always dumping them on others. Mr. Minister, I expected, for example, that there would be an assumption of responsibility for the 70 precarious people in Agenas, who demonstrated again in front of the Ministry on Monday. The Agenas, which could be very useful even in the regional organization, is located with a 30% less people [[Applause]] , prepared people, who have been working there for years, while in the new budget there is practically the recruitment of other executives, so in Agenas it is not well known who, what and how it will do, but in return there will be one executive for every six employees. Congratulations, I guess. Coming to the near future - which does not seem rosy to us, given the state of the majority, if there is still one - we thank you for the announcement of 18 billion of the recovery fund for health, even if they were already present in the old draft, since the part related to health building was part of a different chapter and did not appear therefore in the specific interventions. Good job. The game of the three cards has worked again; it is a pity that you have admitted that for the health of billions they serve 60 and we do not know how they will come, unless you have finally decided to use the money of the health MES, after having digested the new entrances in the ministerial group. There is confusion about the areas (yellow, orange, red, white) and confusion about the doses of vaccines available, as well as the control of who receives the vaccines. For example, who will monitor vaccinations? The Aifa, pharmacovigilance? Since 2017 we have been waiting for a vaccine registry in all Italian regions. [[Applause]] Clear data on vaccinations are not yet there, although it has been declared by scientists that in order to have flock immunity - Arcuri said we will reach it by September - you should do 300,000 vaccinations a day. Let me add another small thing: let's stop with the confusion about vaccinating everyone with a dose and then do the second in time, because the protocol of vaccines, admitted and regulated, indicates precise times between the first and the second dose. I therefore ask you, since you are the Minister of Health, to clarify this issue to everyone from a scientific point of view. We are not talking about the luer lock syringes, nor about the fact that, once we said that there were vaccines ordered in time, the syringes arrived late and were wrong, as he learned from the news all over Italy. What happened then to the 2 million allocated to the staff of the "112" employed in the activity of contrast to the emergency in the I throw again decree and the 50 million of the Italian cure for the regional interventions aimed at the creation of health areas outside the hospital structures? Many patients, the fragile patients, which you often remember, have been left unsupported. We don't know anything about contagion tracking. We ask for unity at all: patients who are left behind, tracking, Immuni app, restaurateurs and bartenders who open every other day and never even know what to buy: whether milk or nothing. Quickly, President Berlusconi reiterated, but using his head and trying to identify with one of the families who lost everything. But do you, sometimes, come out of your palaces? [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr. Minister, let's try to have less chaos. Waiting is painful, forgetting it is worse. Get a move on. If you're still there, beat it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u10	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we must be quick. You have to hurry, because the kids want and have to go back to school. But there are no conditions, Minister. You have to hurry, because 31 percent of teenagers are tired. 17 percent are uncertain and 17 percent are still worried. Almost one in two, 46 percent, is convinced that they have wasted a year and one in three that their school preparation has deteriorated. In 35% of cases, they have to recover more materials than last year. Then, Minister, there is the real problem of school dispersal. 28 percent claim that, since the beginning of the pandemic, at least one mate in his class has stopped attending school. The estimate is that at least 34,000 high school students may be at risk of leaving school due to prolonged absences. All this, Minister, is not comforting. In fact, the first to worry about it are the children, who feel excluded from the choices for the contrast to the spread of the Covid-19. 65 percent, even, are convinced to pay firsthand for the inability of adults to handle the pandemic. 43 percent feel accused by adults of being among the main speakers in the contagion, while 42 percent feel it is unfair that adults can go to work when they are not allowed to go to school. Mr. Minister, we need to do what we need to do quickly to make the school a safe place for students to do school work. What are these interventions, Minister, the children themselves tell you? They are the ones who say that we must tackle the structural problems that have been afflicting school for a long time. Let us think of school buildings, which do not have sufficient and adequate spaces. On this theme, the League has for months insisted on the use of spaces that peer schools could make available, in addition to the spaces of congress centers, fairs, cinemas and theatres. We still think about the shortage of staff, another issue on which the League has long been spending. Let us think of the public transport system and of the lack of organization in time of a student transport through agreements with private individuals. But that's not all there is, Minister. In this phase of health emergency, it is also essential to strengthen tools for preventing infection in schools, from protective devices to tracking. I would like to point out, Minister, that there are also air purification plants which could be installed in many of our schools. Those who govern us say that for the next few months we need a clear plan for school and structural investment. Education must be put back in the centre, not just in words. It can't be postponed anymore. This, Minister, is what the students are asking for and it is the same thing that we of the League have long been asking for. Students need certainties; this situation is weighing on their shoulders, inequalities are increasing more and more and school leaving is an increasingly important problem. We can't leave anyone behind, especially in a time of crisis like this. The goal of all must be to reopen the school in complete safety and so that it is accessible to all students and students. All this, Minister, is called programming, a variable unknown to this Government that continues to put on patches, to chase problems and not to attack, anticipate, prevent; a word, this, which you like very much, but which you do not know how to apply in reality. You, Minister, must admit that this summer has wasted time and we can also blame the irresponsible behaviour of the Italians. But the most irresponsible behavior was yours, which you preferred to think of wheelchairs and scooters rather than putting companies and workers at work to adapt the school, thus also giving work. Let me also, Minister, talk about culture and everything that has been lost in recent months with museums, exhibitions, cinemas and closed theatres. I would remind you that with the budget law we have accepted agendas signed by the Lega Group for the reopening of museums. I hope that this too, for what you have said today, will be possible to keep the promise. Open them! I don't think that inside museums and exhibitions you can create movida and gatherings, that in museums there have never been. Open them! Breathe in our culture, which is about to die the way theatre companies are dying. At least have the decency to fund streaming shows and not to favor Netflix. That's necessary, before everyone gets away. [[Applause]] and that there is nothing left of a cultural and human capital that, if it does not properly come... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr. Minister, you have to hurry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the virus continues to run fast; the emergence of new variants with greater diffusion capacity, even if with unchanged pathogenic action, has simply accelerated this process. We can see this simply also by observing what happens in other European countries, which in fact alternate less restrictive measures and phases with others that push up to total lockdowns. Our country, which is also experiencing the difficulties of regionalization of the National Health System due to the norms of Title V of the Constitution, on the difficult path of the fight against coronavirus, despite the enormous contingent difficulties, has always tried to maintain the right balance between restrictions and concessions, between openings and closures, while considering the big problems and the many repercussions that each measure carried with it. We must never forget, however, a fundamental point that so many citizens require: health protection comes first of all. The safeguarding of the integrity and life of everyone goes beyond what may be the demands, even just and motivated, of some. No one has ever forgotten, in the various measures adopted, the economic, social consequences and the complex problems for so many citizens that they would have caused, but always trying to give concrete answers. The political will has always been to protect the most difficult economic sectors and the most fragile and vulnerable people in our social state. Unfortunately, a greater elasticity and a reduction in the most restrictive measures corresponds, almost as a logical consequence, to a rapid increase in infection, an acceleration of the spread of the virus and its rise with the rise of the RT index. In this last period we had the demonstration of all this, with the rise and doubling of the index of contagiosity after the Christmas period, which certainly has been consequent to the assemblies and superficial attitudes and little consonant to the recommendations received. More and more it is necessary to insist on the continuous awareness and information of the citizens, in the call to their civic sense and belonging to the community. If we can't all do this process of maturation and inner processing, we won't be able to eradicate or defeat the virus. Any measure, even the most shared and participated, requires the conviction of every citizen. This is an accession that for the most part has been and for which we can only thank the Italians. It is essential to remember that the rules apply and are fully implemented only if each of us understands that, in this pandemic, everyone must play their part every day, not for the simple obligation or fear of sanctions, but because our responsible behaviors are an indispensable condition in the difficult battle against the coronavirus. Those who govern must know how to center and balance measures with the right balances. If the virus is so dynamic and changeable in its aggressiveness, the political follow-up choices cannot be static, but they must be balanced and modified in relation to the trend of the pandemic. I would like to highlight two aspects in particular in the architecture of the DCCM that we are analyzing. The first relates to the introduction of the so-called white area, in the context of the division of the various zones according to the registered index of contagiosity, which provides for measures less restrictive than the so-called yellow area, always in order to ensure maximum consistency between the epidemiological scenario referring to each territory and the degree of rigour of the containment measures applied there. This novelty, agreed with the technical-scientific committee, represents and encloses, at this particular moment, more than anything else a symbolic value and a message of encouragement to Italians: to be more virtuous and attentive you can and must. The second aspect concerns the lowering of the threshold value of the RT contagion indices, to enter or pass into the different zones. This is a preventive measure, made necessary to arrive before the virus, with more restrictive measures, capable of preventing more difficult and critical situations. Surely a fundamental support in the management of this pandemic began with the administration of vaccines, the progressive availability of which will allow us to have a lethal weapon against the virus, starting with those who are at the forefront, such as health care personnel, and the weakest and most fragile subjects of the population. The tens of thousands of deaths, the suffering of intensive therapies, the glances lost in the emptiness of those who know that they may not succeed constitute a warning for institutions and citizens, to try to do more and better, in the interest of the community. The many sacrifices demanded, to which many have joined, with awareness and conscience, cannot be frustrated at the moment when, despite the many doubts and uncertainties, with the vaccination campaign just begun we begin to glimpse, finally, a light at the end of the tunnel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u14	Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u15	Minister, thank you for your communication, which I found argued, punctual and all in all honest. The Government does not hide the delicacy of the health and economic situation and is said to be concerned that in the country it can advance on the one hand an unjustified feeling of escaped danger and on the other the refusal of new measures aimed at containing the number of contagions and, more generally, the circulation of the virus in its various variants, autochthonous and imported. If that is true, however, we must not hide that to date we lack an exact measurement, a reliable balance sheet, a unique and unassailable account of what has happened on the various fronts of the crisis over the last year. The effort to which we must strive - Parliament, the Government, the Regions, the system of local authorities - is to activate certified and transparent databases, through which public opinion can follow the evolution of the pandemic, the measures and the effects of the same ones that the decision-making bodies have gradually assumed, assume and assume. There is therefore an urgent need for transparency on prevention measures such as those listed in the new action that the Government is preparing to improve and on those related to health care and the current vaccination campaign. The authorisation of the Moderna vaccine, alongside the Pfizer vaccine, is good news but it is not enough: a plurality of subjects is needed so that the campaign is faster, systematic, fair and - indeed - transparent. We must clearly communicate that the vaccine is the tool to get out of this collective nightmare that affects the lives of all, relationships, social dynamics, work and affective, that conditions the educational and educational path of an entire generation and to face it needs confidence. To generate confidence, we need transparency on the responsibilities and the decision-making chain, on the choice of priorities to be given, on safety, on which vaccines we choose to administer and on why, on the organisational model, on the outcomes, on the universal dimension of vaccination for all and free of charge. That is, we need to give a perspective to the country, to put an end to the defensive phase that has been in place for a year and to propose a reliable vision of restart in safety. It is in fact the absence of this perspective, which still seems elusive, to divide the country in two between those who are guaranteed and those who are not, between those who have a certain income and those who see it denied by restrictions, between those who manage to exercise their right to study and those who do not. It is the lack of perspective that makes, beyond the good will and commitment of the excellent Minister Hope and the entire Executive, sometimes ineffective the measures. It is difficult, in fact, that those who do not share them or feel excluded from them, those who once again feel neglected apply them in good measure and feel involved. In every debate on this issue we have repeated that any decree of the President of the Council of Ministers or decree-laws prohibiting or limiting economic activities must carry with it the immediate financial cover for the restorative, in turn immediate, without bureaucratic delays or mediation of third-party economic subjects, that guarantee to the interested parties the survival of their economic and working activity and safeguard their dignity as citizens and citizens. In this area too, we can and must do much more. One of the points I would like to make is not, however, economically measurable, even if it is sometimes linked to the economic and working conditions of individuals. I believe that the whole government - and the Minister of Health in particular - must take care not only of health care and economic protection, but also of the psychophysical well-being of citizens and citizens, in this year strongly endangered by the limitations that we have had to implement. I am thinking of children and girls, to whom and to whom the virus has taken away spaces and places of leisure and growth; of boys and girls, most of whom are still forced to teach at a distance and consequently, as an accessory pain, to the loss of moments of sociality, exchange of experiences and growth. As for distance learning, I open a parenthesis as a schoolman. I believe that this is a success which will never replace that in presence, linked to aspects that are added to the mere exchange of information between teachers and pupils. The distance learning needs to be improved, pandemic or non-pandemic, in order to integrate in future the new models of didactics in presence. Today we are forced to use it exclusively, I hope for little longer. Instead of saying that it doesn't work, I expect those who have to work to improve it as much as possible, valorizing the great commitment of teachers who often perform miracles to reinvent a totally new mode and motivating boys and girls not to give up, nor to harm the commitment, but to tighten their teeth. In this sense - and I close the parenthesis - I welcome the commitment made yesterday by Minister Azzolina and summarized by the formula "restors of knowledge." I hope that this is a structured plan to integrate the teaching tools in favour of students and students who may have accumulated delays in preparation, without forgetting, precisely, the unbearable need to make available to them and their families a psychological support easily reachable and able to give answers as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it has been a year since our leader Giorgia Meloni launched the alarm about the risk that came from China and President Conte said that there was no alarmism to be done, members of the majority rushed to say that it was necessary to embrace a Chinese and others went to make aperitifs to the Navigli. I say this just to remember, in the matter of negationism, what we have lived in the past year and why we are here. [[Applause]] Minister, today you are asking and talking about unity and cohesion. I would remind you that on the political side of Brothers of Italy there have never been a lack of proposals, which are firm in parliamentary acts and in the interpretation of a political role that Mr Zaffini has always provided in this branch of Parliament to Deputy Minister Sileri and to you in all the talks and occasions for hearing and confrontation that have taken place in this Chamber. However, Minister, very little has been heard. Today, we do not want to take advantage of a very recurring statement in politics, that is, we had said it, but I do not believe that you can be convinced, today as yesterday, that Italy was a model in the fight against the epidemic. This summer you thought the Covid was an archived experience and this led to a relaxation that brought us into the second wave of contagion. Today, in his report, I see very conflicting elements: he says that we see the light at the end of this tunnel, but that the possibility of a third wave is lurking. This was the oscillating attitude and lack of a strategy on the part of the Government that led us to follow the current of the contagion; and this failure became flesh and blood of the sufferings of the Italians, who suffered all. In particular, however, there are a few categories to which you have demonstrated a therapeutic fervour: restaurateurs, bartenders, the entire tourism sector (travel agencies in many cases still have to receive a euro of refreshment) and the world of culture, not to mention the school. Minister Azzolina told us for a year that the Dad was the solution to the problem; today he tells us that he is very concerned about the lack of activity in the presence. These fluctuations make the exasperation that the Italian people are experiencing; and unfortunately, Minister, we see in your words no change of pace and no assumption of responsibility in relation to the failure that has already been determined. The model Italy did not exist, the data say, and now we add the story of vaccines, which had also been presented as the immediate resolving element, while today everyone understands that it is not so. Also with regard to the Regions, about which I was pleased to see that Minister Boccia has peeped, I have a lot of the impression that there is no correct relationship: they are used as fig leaf when there is a failure to unload, of course when it comes to Friendly Guided Regions, while it is resoundingly silent on episodes of extreme gravity, such as those occurred in Campania, whose governor is the only politician and administrator who has self-vaccinated. [[Applause]] For twenty days now, my political side has been asking for clarification through a question of mine. You said that the vaccine must not be a privilege for anyone: then how could De Luca immunize himself? I hope you will soon give an answer to my question. In the same way, I would like to ask you and Deputy Minister Sileri to activate the inspection powers of the Ministry, because for two days an authoritative daily newspaper, the South Daily, literally speaks, with circumstantial complaints, of favoritism in the injection of vaccines to administrative personnel who are not in contact with the public and relatives of health managers. So yes to the vaccine, but according to the rules, as we have all said, from the President of the Republic down, giving priority to the heroes you mentioned and who cannot be satisfied only with the words. On the contrary, I would point out, also in this regard, that in Campania those heroes are treated as refugees: there are photos of the health personnel in line under the water and in the cold to be vaccinated. So there is no need for applause and testimonials here in this House, when in actual fact the reality of the real country is quite different. You quoted the great Eduardo: "Adda passa' to nuttata", but many citizens think that blacker than midnight cannot be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u18	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with a very important subject and we have heard the communications from Minister Hope, who told us that, in truth, the path is still very difficult and there is a clear resumption of the virulence and the rate of spread of the virus. The figures from the United Kingdom, Germany, France and even Sweden tell us this. The Minister announced that, shortly, an extension of the declaration of the state of emergency will be made with a new DCCM, which will also provide for a white zone and several joints and possibilities for the yellow zone, with a reduction in the time for take-off, with the limit at 6 p.m. All this is now entering into the social habits of Italians. Beyond the economic and political consequences, we must bear in mind that this is one of the ways to be followed, unfortunately. Of course, the Government takes into account and has taken into account the economic and social consequences of these measures. This is the subject of a resolution that I have tabled with other colleagues and now, in my opinion, the time has come - perhaps it had already come a long time ago - to carry out a real campaign of testing on the road and proximity, so that the buffer, like measures and related to them, becomes a real social habit. In order to do this, the test must be easily accessible, there is no need for reservation, and the forces and resources, for example, of volunteering, of the Red Cross and of the many voluntary medical and nursing associations, can also be used. I have seen some experiences in Milan that I liked very much, because there the buffer costs too much, so you have to make sure that it costs much less. In Lazio - where we are lucky, basically - and in Sicily the price is calmed. I am not saying that we should calm it down, but at least keep it low, so that it can be accessible, and so that it can be an implementation of the right to treatment, of which you yourself have spoken, Minister. This right to care is enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution and it also rightly sees the possibility for individuals to profit, there would be no more. Attention, however: the profit of the private must be reasonable, in the circumstances in which we find ourselves, because it cannot be excessive and linked to taking advantage of a state of emergency; I therefore ask the Government to act in this direction and to intervene in order to verify and keep low the prices of the swabs. This is a necessary measure to contain and slow down the rate of spread of the virus. Without this instrument, only social distance can hardly be effective. Without a continuous tampon campaign, we would soon find ourselves in the fourth and fifth waves: as in a vicious game of goose, we would always find ourselves at the starting point. Then - as scientists have been telling us for months, since the rapid swabs were developed in June, which are trivial and basically usable with very trivial technical, rather than scientific skills - they spread and are found in every corner of the street, of our cities and in the various squares. There are so many volunteers who would like to do so, but they find bureaucratic obstacles: in the granting of land, in the ASL and also in the identification of doctors who can do this type of activity. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, not all doctors can do it, although the one to be done with rapid swabs is an absolutely trivial and simple activity. Lowering the price and making the swabs accessible, so that they become a real social habit, through light presidies, without great expense, maybe even managed by volunteers of the Red Cross or other associations, is important, so that jointly and not disjunctly from vaccination allow us to slow down the rate of spread of the virus. The government would thus prove to have a perspective and a broad view. In this respect, I hope that Minister Hope will be in favour of the resolution that we have tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u20	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister, because since the beginning of this terrible crisis he has never failed to be present in the parliamentary classrooms in order to update us on the course of the epidemic and the subsequent decisions. [[Applause]] I think it is a demonstration of great responsibility, for which we should all be grateful. In this sense, I broadly share your call for unity and responsibility: the two key words that, especially today, thanks to the vaccine, allow us to look more confidently to the future. Nevertheless, these days are particularly difficult. Unfortunately, the pandemic - here, as in the rest of Europe - is once again expansive. We therefore welcome the serious and prudent approach to this stage by applying the highest level of precaution, in order to avoid, in the first place, increasing pressure on health structures. In order to succeed, we must stop the transmission of the virus, which can be serious and dangerous, especially if contracted in aggressive form. The hundreds of deaths recorded in the painful and tragic daily bulletin, which we should never get used to, are there to constantly remind us of. It is therefore necessary, in view of the worsening of all the parameters, to extend the state of emergency in order to confirm and strengthen the measures of containment of the spread. It is a long battle, which is putting people to the test. For this reason, it is desirable that, as part of the dynamic band model, more rapid access to the most stringent measures by regions with particular risk parameters should be encouraged, but at the same time a lower level of risk is introduced than hitherto envisaged. Precaution and proportionality should be the words to which we continue to inspire our action. Unfortunately, the rise in infection could force us to prolong or introduce new limitations for productive activities. In this sense, it seems necessary - and the Government is already moving in this direction - to prepare all the necessary refreshment measures for the groups already hard hit by almost a year of inactivity. You, Minister, are well aware that this virus has exacerbated and widened inequalities, hitting the most fragile and difficult people with greater ferocity. In the coming months it will be necessary to put in place all the necessary initiatives to reduce them, starting with access to the health system. The hospitals have been overwhelmed by the epidemic wave, despite the extraordinary commitment of the staff, which I want to stress. Various screenings and oncology visits have been missed, and many non-Covid pathologies cannot be cured; many non-self-sufficient people could not have access to therapies; in particular, those suffering from mental disorders and psychic fragility could not be followed. So if we have more doctors, more nurses and more intensive care jobs compared to a year ago, and we've put 12 billion more in health care, we know we're gonna need more investment. I think above all of the areas of the country in greatest difficulty, those with a health system in which problems already existed before Covid arrived. Bridging these gaps and putting the most fragile people back into the system: this must be our first commitment. We have a wish. You, Minister, have rightly reminded this House that the Covid has been counted for months and that with vaccines we will defeat the virus. Science and research have made extraordinary progress, but - these are his words - we have not yet won. We must not, therefore, miss the reading of this decisive phase. Now, in fact, the most complex moment comes, that of mass administration: it is a long and complex work, which will involve all the institutions and for which will serve the maximum collaboration and a widespread information campaign. The country is ready to increase the number of doses to be administered as soon as new vaccines are authorised. In this respect, and in the light of my remarks on the need to protect the most fragile people, I would ask you, Minister, to formalise as soon as possible the commitment made by Commissioner Arcuri on priority vaccinations for people with disabilities and their caregivers. It would be very important to clarify this point definitively. People with disabilities have suffered more than others the effects of Covid and have often been left alone. It is now necessary to protect them, in the same way as all other fragile people. I am beginning to conclude by dedicating a few more minutes to an issue that is particularly close to my heart and that is indicated among the commitments that we ask the Government: I am talking about school. Would it take the pandemic - I say this without any controversy - to put school at the centre of public debate? This may be one of the few positive aspects that the health crisis will leave us. Our country, like many others, has had to deal with a terrible uncertainty, caused by a completely new situation. In these days, nations such as Germany or Great Britain have felt it necessary to have a painful decision to close all schools of all order and rank. Each country has had to deal with the difficulty of keeping schools open in a situation where the third wave is no longer simply a hypothesis. Schools are places where, despite the great work of prevention done and the extraordinary commitment - which I want to emphasize - of school leaders, of teaching staff and not of students, one can become infected. We must continue to work in synergy with the regions in order to allow, in the light of the evolution of the epidemiological framework indicated by you with precise data, the return to class for the greatest number of students. It is quite clear, in fact, that this generation is paying very dearly for the absence of adequate classrooms and, even more so, the lack of relationships and relationships. Further solutions will be needed, as well as increased transport and staggered timetables. There will have to be a refreshment for this generation that we can call cognitive and emotional. I am not talking about an economic refreshment, but about one that is even more important. Investment, initiatives, school recovery activities, support for what has been taken away from this generation in these long months, strengthening of services and territorial networks, renewal of teaching, as if the distance one could compensate for the teaching in presence, and therefore investments on teachers and their training and services aimed at psychophysical well-being. Just to mention a few chapters, we will need resources: the recovery fund will give us the opportunity to dispose of them. Now we have to work to preserve the ability of students to leave this season with as little damage as possible, so I hope that we will work to strengthen the tools we have, ensuring as a priority the pedagogical and psychological support to students, because, in addition to the serious problem of training debt that is accumulating, the one relating to economic and social inequalities has been exacerbated, but there is also - and perhaps, above all - one regarding the emotional discomfort of the lost students, in search of meaning for their present and future days, because, if we cannot build answers, we are playing the future of the entire country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u21	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I asked to speak because, frankly, I needed to ask you a few questions directly. I have listened to all your information over the course of these months and I must say that I always have the same problem: my colleague is right, when he says that she arrives with this educational, wet chick air, so it is also difficult to attack her, because it seems to shoot on the Red Cross, and this gives us some problems. [[Applause]] In the end, I decided to ask her the following questions, which are the same as the Italians, or whatever I feel in my daily activity. He made several statements to Parliament: in October, you told us to stay at home to have a quiet Christmas; then, you said to stay at home at Christmas to do a quiet vaccination; and now, as I think the Italians perfectly understood, someone says that there must be no "freetan all" - but frankly, I do not see it - and that you have to stay at home, because there is the problem of the third wave. That's the truth. Minister, you referred to unity and I think we have always made a number of proposals from this point of view. But we need two substantial things: the first is the truth, as much as possible, about the situation and the second is the clarity, because most people do not understand. [[Applause]] That's all it takes. Consider, Minister - and you too will have seen the data - that we left with a large number of people who did not know whether or not they would be vaccinated. Slowly, the Italians have been explained quite clearly what it means (it will have seen that the data have changed). I'll tell you what, basically, we'd like to understand. First of all, as I said, it comes to tell us what needs to be done: well, I would like a report from which to understand what has been done, but not pages and pages. He did one where he said what you did for vaccines: that's fine; after that, however, what was done to get the health system back on its feet so that it could face the second and third waves? I'm asking because, frankly, I don't understand it. Then, you will tell me that there are responsibilities of the Regions: I am fine, however, regardless of this, we would like to know at least how many field hospitals have been made, if the seats in intensive care have been increased and how many USCA have been activated. In short, I believe that Parliament needs this data in order to give an overall assessment. Secondly, excuse me, but I have to ask you a question: we were closed at Christmas, but the contagions do not stop. Someone figured out why Christmas closures didn't give the results they hoped for? [[Applause]] Minister, there is a major debate today on freedom of expression and the press. I wonder if the government has ever made a serious reflection on the fact that there are too many experienced virologists that make a huge mess in television broadcasts, starting with those that should be, instead, a support. Have you ever thought about the fact that perhaps a single communication would help everyone? So much, medicine is not an exact science. Explaining this to people, I think we can also begin to give limits to the outputs that generate confusion in a population that, as we know, is composed from the point of view of culture or, in any case, the ability to learn these themes. I think it's necessary. I have yet another question, which our Parent Company put in a speech yesterday: why are we not in the WHO delegation going to China and to whom the visa was kindly granted, finally, to understand what happened there when the virus broke out? We were the first country affected after China, so frankly, we would like to know why we are not going with WHO to make a general investigation. [[Applause]] Finally, Minister, apart from all the pandemic issues - to which I do not return, because Mrs Rizzotti has been very clear - he has come here today once again to outline the path of the forthcoming closures and to make a call to unity. My colleagues have already told you in the House: it is not today that this invitation is to be sent to us, because in any case the opposition forces are there and have also brought forward some proposals. He must speak to his majority, because today we are in the Renzi time, which airs instead of the broadcasts on the Covid. The possibilities are these: either transmissions on the number of contagions or transmissions on the crisis of government. So, frankly, unity must first ask its majority, because I think the center-right has abundantly demonstrated that he has the responsibility and the ability to keep his back straight in this situation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u24	Mr President, we have been trying for a long time to draw the Government's attention to many mistakes made by chasing the pandemic with the urgent decree. However, as the former has made a more than significant sumptus, I go further to help you make no more mistakes. Not for you, but for the sake of the Italians. I am referring mainly to the vulnus that has been created by not investing in prevention on the entire supply chain and, above all, in properly trained, valued and motivated human capital. Medical and nursing staff who are not only underpaid at times, but recruited even under the administration regime for routine activities such as vaccinations and sometimes remunerated with some formative credit. [[Applause]] Similarly, if on the one hand one could partially justify having faced the pandemic as an unknown enemy, because rare and unlikely event, therefore making mistakes, on the other it is not tolerable that in the second and the now probable third wave, generated by indecisions and delays due to a decision tree that contains in its sap correct information, but that it uses in a wrong way, they can commit more than in the first. [[Applause]] This is demonstrated by the over 570,000 currently positive, the increase in deaths to 80,000 and the number of intensive care beds occupied beyond the critical threshold. Just like any supplier responsible for supplying any company knows that it is appropriate to divide the order of an essential good on six possible suppliers, but no less should know that it is necessary to give priority to the supplier who is able to deliver the product as quickly as possible with all the specifications of effectiveness and safety required, even to the detriment of the economic convenience, which has not happened from us, and also this is an error that should not have been made. Despite the enthusiasm with which you have told us, Minister, that I do not want to put out, with the contracts signed to date we can only vaccinate about 5% of the population by March and less than 20% by June, pending the 24 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. As well as not having diversified alternatives in specific treatments, starting with available monoclonals and superimmune plasma with neutralising antibodies, it sees us guiltyly late [[Applause]] , against treatments tested and effectively usable since the end of October last, only that they had accepted the 10,000 treatments offered by Eli Lilly for compassionate use, potentially saving at least 10,000 people: therefore, not only vaccines. Assuming that we continue to proceed in an appreciablely sustained manner, the first results of vaccination prophylaxis will be in the late spring and, since the Government is certainly aware that the economic emergency generates social and health vulnerabilities no less devastating than those caused by a pandemic infection, a multi-instrumental strategy should have been prepared, dynamically updated because of the levels of knowledge acquired, able to attack the virus from all points of view, also from the bureaucracy of the so-called implementing decrees! As well as the delay gained in the presentation of the pandemic plan we hope to be filled by all those indications that we expected for at least six months. The measures of individual and collective responsibility, i.e. the use of masks, the distancement and the hygiene of the hands, in this situation should have been constantly communicated and disseminated more effectively, educating and raising awareness of the protection for themselves and for others, so as to make all the other regulatory requirements that, on the contrary, you insist on perpetrating in an obsessive, uncertain and intermittent way and that, with further chromaticisms, can generate confusion. While the Italians deserve a Government that, having only at heart the welfare of its citizens, knows how to carry out authoritatively the role, without continuous extensions of the state of emergency, capable of "convincing" in order to "not force". Unfortunately, once again, you are proving its opposite. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u25	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u26	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the myth of Narciso is perhaps the best known of Greek mythology. Narciso was such a young man in love with his own image that he lost his life while mirroring himself in a lake. The invitation I make to all of us in this House is to know how to go beyond our image, beyond our personal battles, and how to look together at the common good. Just this morning, our founder urged all political forces to draw up a cross-cutting pact with a shared goal, taking up the invitation of President Sergio Mattarella to become builders of good. And what is the most precious good? As you say, Minister, health is the most valuable asset. [[Applause]] A health once again put to the test by this virus and this pandemic. We see a general worsening of epidemiological data. In these weeks there is an increase in infection, an increase in hospitalizations in intensive care, an increase in the rate of communicability in all regions. But, Minister, we, like you, finally see the light at the end of the tunnel. And we see this light because, in these months, we have had an important lighthouse, which is science. Unlike politics, science has been able to work with a shared goal: researchers around the world have joined forces to try to find a cure or a tool to prevent this infection. And today we have a vaccine. A vaccine that has been produced with an innovative technology, a technology never used before; an effective vaccine for 95 percent, a very high efficacy; a vaccine that, for the first time, will be free and available for all those who want to immunize themselves. This is an extraordinary achievement, Minister, just as extraordinary is being the first country in Europe for the number of vaccinations given. We've exceeded 800,000 doses of the administered vaccine. In this first phase, as you mentioned, we are vaccinations for health workers, operators and guests of health care residences (RSA), all over the age of 80; then the second phase will start, in which all operators of essential services, all fragile subjects, will be vaccinated; finally the third phase will start, that of mass vaccination, for which extraordinary means and tools are already provided. But now we must continue to believe in the science and data it provides. We must continue to invest in science perhaps more than has been done so far, if we think that Italy is the country with the lowest number of graduates and is one of the countries with the lowest number of researchers: we have only four researchers per 1,000 inhabitants, less than half of the European average. Italy is the country in which the PhD, which is absolutely the highest academic title, is not even evaluated in some competitions. Science now tells us that it is essential to maintain the restrictions, which is why we need to extend the state of emergency to 30 April, as you requested, Minister. That is why we need to maintain the restrictions. In these new provisions, however, I would like to read a glimmer of hope, which I see in this new white belt planned for areas with a low number of cases (less than 50 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, with an RT index less than 1). This glimmer of hope I take him in the reopening of exhibitions and museums and we hope soon also of theaters, cinemas and concerts. From here, in fact, we must start from investing in culture. I would also like to make a little mention of the schools. Young people are the ones who paid dearly for the consequences of this pandemic: they had to give up sociality, hugs, first loves; they had to give up seeing grandparents. Yet, with a great spirit of responsibility, they realized that distance was an act of care, an act of love. [[Applause.]] On Monday these same young people went to the streets in front of the schools and asked us to reopen them, asked them to have confidence in their sense of responsibility. In order to do this, however, it is essential that coordination between the central state and the regions is increasingly effective. Too many times in recent months the central provisions have not been implemented at regional level; at this stage it is therefore essential to cooperate at all institutional levels. The implementation of the recovery plan's projects must also be based on collaboration. We are very proud of the plan that concerns health, because the projects on this subject are based on those that for us are the fundamental pillars: the strengthening of territorial medicine, finally establishing in all the regions the homes of health, the hospitals of community, strengthening the taking charge of home, providing to the doctors of general medicine the tools of telemedicine that we ask for for a year (how much would have served already in the management of this pandemic). The second pillar, for health projects included in the recovery plan, concerns new technologies and digitisation: we have been talking about electronic health files, electronic folders for fifteen years now. We need investment in prevention: we have said in all languages that to move from waiting medicine to own-initiative medicine we must prevent diseases. Even in this pandemic cancer patients, fragile patients have often been abandoned because they have not had access to differential paths. This is why prevention must be strengthened throughout the national territory. Finally, there are investments in research and training. I would therefore like to conclude my speech, asking everyone really to be able to become builders of good, as President Mattarella asks us, because history will not forgive us if at this moment we will not be able to build the new country, the country that awaits us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u27	I declare closed the debate on the Minister of Health's communications. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator De Falco and other senators, No 2 by Senators Iori, Pirro, Errani, Garavini and Steger, No 3, Senators Richetti and Bonino, and No 4 by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. The lyrics are in distribution. I call on the Minister for Health, Mr Hope, to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u28	Mr President, I am speaking to thank all the senators for their useful contributions and I shall confine myself to expressing my views. I am in favour, in its entirety, of the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Iori, Pirro, Errani, Garavini and Steger. As regards the motion for a resolution No 4 by the centre-right opposition tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani, I am only in favour of commitments Nos 3 and 7. On the other hand, with regard to motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Richetti and Bonino, I am only in favour of the three commitments which we are already working on. With regard to motion for a resolution No 1, tabled by Senator De Falco and other senators, I am only in favour of the commitments, with some amendments. (a) the opinion is favourable, provided that the word "bureaucratic" is replaced by the word "simplification" and that the words "also" are deleted in an extemporaneous and "extemporaneous way." (b) the opinion is favourable, provided that the word "calmere" is replaced by the words "check" and, where appropriate, intervene to lower the words "calmere" and provided that the words "emergency decree" are expunged and that the word "sproported" is expunged. (c) the opinion is also favourable, subject to the replacement of the words "real" and "real" by the words "most widespread."
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u29	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u32	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on vaccines Italy started well, but as Minister Hope recalled, this is a marathon that is won by making perfect not only the supply machine, but also that of the administrations. This is true of those who have facilities open 24 hours a day, because one minute and one chance of administration must not be missed. The feeling is that, since the vaccination campaign started, many doubters have changed their minds and that the skepticism that hovered in some small segments of public opinion is disappearing. That is why we must continue with the approach you have indicated, that of listening and confrontation, avoiding clashes between typhoses, which would have negative consequences from all points of view. We wait confidently on 29 January, because if the European medicines agency (EMA) authorizes the AstraZeneca vaccine, that day we will really see the light at the end of the tunnel and it seems, as the Minister said, that Johnson & Johnson's request for authorisation for his vaccine is also imminent, which has the great advantage of requiring only one administration to ensure full protection. In the meantime, however, we must continue to manage the situation responsibly and with that prudential approach, which has always guided the decisions of the Government. Of course, there have been times when citizens have struggled to understand certain decisions, especially when the cards on the table have been changed at the last moment, when there has been no linearity in communications or when some measures did not seem to meet a proportionality criterion. Despite this, we believe that as a whole the model of regional differentiations has worked and that above all it is appropriate to face the phase that awaits us, a phase, that is, in which the contagions do not descend, there is the unknown of the variants of the virus, there is the risk that the second wave immediately grafts the third, as is happening in other countries. A new wave would put the vaccination campaign at risk and we absolutely cannot afford that. The new measures, therefore, are good with the condition that, if restrictions are increased, aid must also be strengthened. So far an important effort has been made, but unfortunately it is not enough. Ten months have passed since the first closures, this is an untenable time for most businesses and businesses that today fight their battle for survival. Therefore, immediately the budgetary deviation, immediately that fiscal white year for the self-employed, immediately compensations that take into account the losses of turnover, immediately the removal of tax records for small and medium-sized enterprises, which in these months have not been able to work or have been able to work only in a limited way. At the same time, Minister, the experience of these months suggests that some derogations from specific contexts or situations are necessary and in no way constitute a danger. I refer to the model followed during the Christmas holidays and confirmed also these days, with the possibility of moving between small municipalities. This is particularly true in mountain areas, where the closure of the lifts is also becoming a problem for the garrison and therefore for the security of the territory. The operators are given the opportunity to open the facilities, which without tourism and without travel between the Regions would have as only effect to distribute even better people who go up to the mountains for individual motor activities and sports and who today, with the closed facilities, tend to concentrate in some areas. It is, that is, to make even safer outdoor activities, with people distributed within hundreds of meters, all much less dangerous than shopping at the mall or a Saturday afternoon on the streets of the city's shopping. Those who do not understand these obvious things do not know the mountain or are moved by a prejudice that is unfortunately unnecessarily damaging our territories. Instead, we treasure what we have learned in these months and that we check daily in our territories, we favor those individual and collective behaviors that do not constitute a risk and that make people's lives less tiring and above all we accompany these new measures with an unprecedented commitment to the economy and the vaccination campaign, which is the most important battle, the one that will lead us out of this dramatic experience. It is with these wishes that I announce the Group's vote in favour of the resolution tabled by the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u35	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian Group Viva - Socialist Party will vote yes to the majority resolution. This is the time of responsibility in the face of the pandemic, but Minister, that this resolution is really a starting point to rebuild health and not to navigate on sight as too many times the virus has forced us to do. Health can and must be the highest form of democracy and equality, without any difference in age, gender, territory, state of health and income. This ideal is what is set up in the National Health Service that you have often said you want to defend, rightly. But too many inequalities and too many falsehoods still circulate. Let's think about science. You rightly said that science is our lighthouse. How many falsehoods still go about vaccines, which would not be safe because the time available very short to get to a vaccine would have blown the stages? This is not true because the phases were carried out simultaneously by researchers and researchers around the world. In the Commission we are carrying out a very important investigation, consulting the major Italian experts who reassure us on this point. Minister, we must implement transparent institutional and political information and ensure a continuous updating to carry our citizens by the hand. As for tracking, I do not know how many times I have said that we have tabled amendments, because there is no national plan on swabs. As Mr De Falco said very well earlier, it is on costs and accessibility to swabs that the greatest differences between territories and regions are nested. I would remind you that last June the whole Parliament approved a joint motion on the issue of anti-hygienic and molecular tests. You, Minister, have called for unity, which must be practiced through dialogue, including in Parliament, and that is where we must start if we really want to defend health. As for schools, there is an important proposal. Some regions, starting from Tuscany, have reactivated teaching in the presence of schools. Tuscany has adopted a series of measures, from transport, to tutors who go to stops and help children to keep their distance (the project is called "Ti accompanimento"). We ask Minister Azzolina to take this initiative as a national trial. What's it gonna take? We cannot, after a year, be at the same level as last March. We need to get out of this lockdown. Let me now turn to the subject of vaccines. The vaccines will defend us, but we have to defend the vaccines. How do we defend them? With the rules, which we always ask our citizens to respect and, for example, with a protocol for workers and workers. Minister, let us not always be invaded by problems without anticipating them and facing them. In the newspapers we read about the issue of dismissals of workers and workers who do not want to vaccinate. Minister, let us summon the social partners and renew the protocol of 24 April last on the working environments, which has allowed the contagions not to be so widespread in the workplace, and let us reason for the specificity of the various work together with the social partners. Vaccines for the elderly must be made in the nearest places. Therefore, we do not think that the elder can be called by ASLs to go somewhere to vaccinate. Let's get the general medical doctors involved right away. Speaking of proximity, you have properly set up a Commission chaired by Monsignor Paglia on the issue of the revision of the RSA. We need to move quickly on this too, surpassing the RSA model and promoting integrated medicine at home especially for the elderly. The billion of the Recovery fund for three years to do generically an integrated home medicine is very poor compared to needs. I always hope that Parliament will also be able to talk about ESM resources, because that is the issue that needs to be addressed. I repeat, we make a great home care plan for the elderly. Moreover, it is not possible that in a pandemic situation there are still precarious people in Agenas, among doctors, health workers and social workers. Let us look at this pandemic as a great opportunity to have zero precariousness in health and social services. I personally proposed the establishment of a national health guard because we need to prepare ourselves for any other pandemics. We therefore need flexibility (and not just the construction of intensive structures and therapies) and continuous training of health workers and also volunteers who are periodically trained to intervene in an emergency. Health care, in fact, must stop being culturally relevant to the sick, but must be protected and defended by those who are healthy. It is therefore necessary to focus on primary and secondary prevention, home care, digitisation and local medicine. In the Health Commission, we recently unanimously adopted a resolution on the resumption of treatment of non-Covid patients (e.g. cancer and heart disease) because it is absurd that they should be neglected. With these figures, Minister, and with the data you have brought with regard to the hospitals that are being filled, we cannot afford to abandon other sick people; therefore we must absolutely act in this direction. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must resume the beauty of everyday life, because our lives are turned upside down. For those who believe, the Pope made a beautiful speech on Sunday on the meaning of Jesus' baptism. Jesus came among us to be close and to resume the daily life. You have called for unity and I appeal to you: to resume the daily life, the beauty of the daily life of our fellow citizens, we must set an example first. Let us resume the daily relationship between Government and Parliament, even with the opposition, in a fruitful and productive dialectic for the good of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u38	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, Minister, frankly intrigued by your thanks, I went to do some keyword research. The first word I put in is "Arcuri." [[Applause]] Putting in that word comes out a lot of stuff, Minister. The story of the masks and commissions paid to people of doubt, known problematicity (heavy circumstances, of course). The story of the masks produced by FCA comes out and you are then found not to conform. Minister, with respect to your thanks to Arcuri and to my poor research by keyword, the story of the fans comes out, to whom the broadcast "Report" has dedicated an entire episode; "Report" is made by people who go down hard, Minister. Then, compared always to the keyword search "Arcuri," the Immuni app came out, you think, what should have been the solution to all the problems and that then the same Arcuri had to admit that it was a failure: it didn't work and it doesn't work. Continuing always with the search "Arcuri," comes out the story of the bans for the school benches, the famous benches of the Azzolina. [[Applause]] The 45 million euro ban was published in September, Minister, for benches that should have been provided in a month; Arcuri does not know that in Italy about 200,000 benches are produced per year. Continuing the research on "Arcuri," Minister, the case of vaccines and syringes related to vaccines has come to light; I am always referring to the same investigation by keyword. I don't have time to go into more detail about syringes, which all of you know, colleagues; just go and do a Google search and you'll find it right away. A further story that comes out, and that makes super commissioner Arcuri so angry, is the famous story of his salary. It is to be understood whether it is true or not that Mr. Arcuri must give back a million and a half to the State, because he would have received a million and a half more compensation than the legal limits. Minister, forgive me, but your thanks are a drop in the sea compared to what the state thanks the supercommissary Arcuri and, therefore, your thanks go unnoticed, not to say that it cries revenge compared to these investigations for which it is enough to do a search on Google. Minister, for the second research, the key word I thought of was Unity, which you continue to repeat as a mantra and which is almost a totem around which we all dance: the search for unity. Minister, in that case the first thing that came out to me is the story of the newspaper "Unity," but I deleted it. There was talk of failure, but that affair is a disgrace to everyone, especially to you, Minister. Therefore, I would not use the word "unit" too much. Then came the story of the unit you are looking for on actions and the fact that you have to make vaccines. Very well, Minister, I do not believe that any of the opposition parliamentarians is perplexing or climbing on the fact that they must not vaccinate. If anything, look in the other benches, where the nostalgic of those beautiful movements still sit no vax and not everything. Seek from there because on this side of the hemicycle someone who says you don't have to vaccinate doesn't find him. [[Applause]] There's no point in looking. Minister, but if you are looking for the word "unity" compared to what is happening in the country, I can now say to you, without fear of denial, that this is not a united country; it is a country martyred, divided and prostrated not by the emergency, but by the Government and the actions that it itself has undertaken. [[Applause]] Then I moved on. I didn't show up for half an hour. I did another research because I heard that you, Minister, said you were proud. I did the search with the words "Hope" and "proud" and nothing came out. The screen was empty; there was nothing. Minister, I tried to change the search and inserted the words: Hope apologizes. Minister, three pages have come out on the Google search engine because there is only to apologize; there is nothing to appeal to be proud. What must you be proud of? Minister, are you proud of the record of deaths, which Italy records after a year of emergency? Do you have to be proud of the record of reducing GDP compared to all other European countries? Minister, for this reason it is only to apologize and, in fact, Google, who is very good, reports two pages. Minister, these two parameters I have given you (the record of deaths and the record of the reduction of GDP) are actually the vote of the examino that we - for us I mean the Italians and not the parliamentarians - almost a year after the start of the emergency are forced to make respect to the action of this Government. With regard to the two major strands of action that the Government should have put on the ground with great priority - I am referring, on the one hand, to health containment measures and, on the other hand, to measures to restrict and deprive business and individual freedoms - we have seen you engaged only on the second, that is, on narrowing. In fact, all your measures relate to the measures of containment, restriction and deprivation of business and individual freedom. Minister, before I tell you the vote, I tell you what has not been done in the field of health containment: the tests have not been carried out. Last Monday you reported that the past week was marked by a serious deterioration of all parameters. Last Monday we made 90,000 swabs; in England they make 500,000-600,000 swabs a day and - I repeat - we made 90,000 swabs on Monday. We have been saying for months that, since the tracking system has been blown and this is unfortunately a fact - the swabs, even the rapid ones, are used to identify the subjects who are carriers of the virus without symptoms. It's such a trivial thing to do, doing it on consistent numbers, that you don't understand what you're doing with this virus mapping. You didn't do the home care protocols for general medical doctors. Don't keep an eye on what the Aifa is doing, which looks like the sleeping beauty in the woods. He doesn't even come to the Commission because he doesn't have time. [[Applause.]] You didn't do the pandemic plan, which you delivered to us the day before yesterday, on which you wrote unspeakable things. You have not done and regulated transport so that schools can be reopened when it is acknowledged that the second wave was caused precisely by this problem. And then, Minister, on the other hand, what you are now about to replicate, increase and strengthen, you have to note that to date the closure and constraint measures applied during the Christmas period have not borne fruit because, after a year of coercion and restriction of individual freedoms, these measures no longer work and will no longer work. You have to put your hands on the other measures, the measures of health containment. The two fields on which you have earned the vote, have two parameters as a measure. That of containment with health measures is zero because it records the record of the number of deaths; it is a fact that alone is more than enough to condemn everything that has been done by the Minister of Health. The other figure, that of restrictions and closures, is judged by the record of the reduction of GDP. You have done your utmost to force the Italians not to exercise their freedoms with enormous damage to the country's GDP and the minimum in relation to the health protection of our fellow citizens. In conclusion, Minister, compared to all this, I suggest that it is not the numbers that I have listed, that alone say and certify the failure of what you have done; it is not Renzi who sends you home, as we have now understood; it is not even the Covid who sends you home: it is the Italians who can no longer and will send you home as soon as they are given the opportunity to do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u41	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, we thank the Minister, especially after the speech he has made in this House today, for the work he is doing. Not an easy job. The masters of the comment are many, but I challenge anyone to prove that in such a dramatic story there are those who have the answers already ready. Colleagues, I would recommend caution. Even a description of the reality in which it is said that nothing has been done, zero, that there are no results, that everything has to be redone, to Bartali, does not honour, in my opinion, not even the opposition, because you know very well that it is not so. I would like to try to point out the three points on which we should all reflect. The first is vaccines. It is clear that a new condition opens up with vaccines, a positive outlook. In this regard, the comments of the first days of the launch of the vaccination campaign have proved to be not punctual, to use a euphemism. All the comments said that we had already failed the vaccination campaign, but the results for now are positive. I say this by saying that we must not do - as the Minister rightly did not do in his communication - triumphalism. Vaccination is a difficult and very complicated route. One thing is - to vaccinate for example - health workers and those working in the RSA, another thing is to do mass vaccination to get immunity from flock. We must pay great attention and have an organizational capacity that will have to engage everyone; we must have a capacity for conviction. And then - as has rightly been said - certain public functions require coherence: if an RSA operator decides not to vaccinate, it is legitimate, but he must choose not to operate in those structures anymore I say it not to make ideological controversy, but for a problem that - as we have seen - is very concrete. We must work on this first point. Minister, I think it is right to support all efforts at transparency on the issue of vaccines to allow even those who are not in the majority who support this Government to have all the elements and data available to use and interpret them. Let us make a further effort, because at least on the issue of vaccines we might not say find a formal unit, but support a common commitment to achieve a result for all. The second point concerns the pandemic. I want to make a little personal observation that no one is committed to. The data are growing, and that is indisputable. It is useless that we continue, depending on the position, to ask for openings or closures of the activities. It is clear that if countries such as Britain, Germany and the Netherlands - virtually the whole of Europe - are further tightening the rules, there will be a reason for that. We could continue to have this discussion without interruption. Can we say that it is the government's responsibility if the pandemic data is growing? No: if we look at any part of Europe and the world, the data tell us that it is not. I say very clearly that, for Christmas holidays, I was for a more rigid solution; I understand all the problems, but I was for a more rigid solution, because this is the only way today to reduce the growth of the pandemic. And I am not the only one saying this, but - as you well know - Fontana and Zaia have said, because it is an objective fact, and we should therefore avoid doing a battle on this. The third point on which we could work together is that we must continue with great seriousness to govern the process of managing the pandemic and, at the same time, to address the issue of restors. A deviation of 24 billion is needed and we could work on another very important aspect - certainly, if we start to work on the merit and not on the accusations, counteraccusations and controversy - that is, on the construction of a system of ristori based on turnover and the tax mechanism. You know that the government has already said that it is willing to work in this direction and we could give certainties. I make this argument, first of all to the opposition, because I believe that the most critical elements are confusion and uncertainty from a health and economic point of view. On these two points, finding a way to reason together would be crucial to speed up the exit from the pandemic and, therefore, the recovery and economic recovery. This is the effort that is required of us: an effort that is not of political positioning, but of opening a new phase in the country. On this I hope that we can finally not have the same debates anymore. You, Minister, have always been consistent and you have always come to this House, but what I fear most is the ritual meetings in which they always grab the same things and we cannot take a step forward. It is very good to reason on the limits that have been and that are still there, on all sides. It's okay to think about this, but let's take a few steps forward. From this debate comes out the message about the need to do vaccinations and in this regard I appreciate what the opposition said: no one is against vaccination. A message of clarity has to come out. From this point of view, Minister, I personally think that talking about white areas is a message... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] If you ask me to stop talking, I'll do it immediately. From this point of view, if we put ourselves on the right path, on the three points - vaccines, rules to combat the growth of the epidemic, and refreshments against the economic crisis - we could try to give a positive message. Then the political dialectic between majority and opposition goes as it should go. But isn't it our job to give this message to the country? When we all talk about the great appreciation of the President of the Republic's speech, what do we say? We need to be consistent. Can we make progress? I hope so and always wait for the least openness, because for me what really matters is to give certainty to the Italians, and not to make confusion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u44	BOLDRINI (PD). Minister, we thank you once again for your presence here in Parliament, and not only because you are reporting on the situation regarding the Covid emergency, and therefore also on the DPCM, but also because you once again demonstrate the important role of this House in your direct intercourse with the Government. I too hope - as my colleague Mr Errani said before - that this intercourse will also be aimed at gathering suggestions from us; suggestions that obviously come to us from the territory, from all the citizens we constantly listen to about everything that is happening. It has been a year since, for the first time, the Wuhan authorities told us - perhaps even a little late - that there was an alarm of contagion compared to what, unfortunately, has become a global pandemic that has been attacking us for too long now. We spent a year full of suffering, fears, social, economic and psychological hardships, but the way back to normal is still long: scientists say so, experts repeat it. However, perhaps we can begin to glimpse a light, because we have a hope thanks to the efforts made by scientific research, which has finally illuminated the way. But we haven't won yet: the route will not be short. I really must thank, once again, all the health workers in this House who are protecting people, who, unfortunately, are affected by the pandemic. The virus isn't even leaving us a moment and it's circulating even more. So, thank you very much to all the operators. The start of the vaccination campaign was a moment that we all hoped for; we followed the services related to the arrival of the first doses and, therefore, we nurture hope and optimism, but we keep our guard high. We can't say we made it, that it's all over. No, it's still along the way. But there is one important thing: we must be quick to vaccinate as many people as possible; we must strengthen the team; those who, based on professional skills, can help, must be recruited. Mr Minister, we have also heard of your new agreement with the doctors of general medicine: they are very good, because they are our first interlocutors, so if they too have the opportunity to be vaccinated and to vaccinate, we add more strength. And I am also thinking of military health as well as the Red Cross: let all those who are able to help come, because the time factor is crucial. And why is it? We have heard about the virus mutations that are coming, and thankfully today Pfizer said that the vaccine also covers the English and South African variants. However, the sooner you operate, the better for this very reason. The time factor is important: in the face of the great economic crisis we are experiencing, health must put people's health at the centre. The health and economic problems are related. We both need to stick to it. In this period the calls of the Regions - my Region started them the other day - have started to immediately refresh all those activities that, unfortunately, have been closed and, through their closure, have helped us to avoid the spread of the virus. Well, they don't have to pay for all of us. There is another subject of the last hours and minutes, Minister, which I do not think is a good sign, because the world is watching us and the threat of a government crisis in the middle of a pandemic is absolutely not necessary. I hope then that, on the contrary, everyone will have the conscience to consider the interests of the whole community. The future is in feeling brothers and not in wanting to dominate, Pope Francis said, and immediately comes to mind the image of the Holy Father in an empty St Peter's Square; an image that goes alongside that of our President of the Republic, when he said that we must be builders and represent the country: fortunately - I must say - there are them, the great sages. First, Mr Zaffini said that we have made everything wrong in Europe. I say that this is absolutely not the case, as scientists have also acknowledged that we have audited in the Commission. To the specific question of what we did wrong, they answered: what people could do who did not know what was the way to go. So it was done very well; of course we have to make some corrections, but we did not know what we expected. I must say, therefore, that both with regard to the vaccination campaign that we are facing and also with regard to what was done before in the emergency, we have all tried. The other European countries are no better off than us. As we know, we are now among the first regions in Europe for vaccinations, so we are also able to deal with this emergency. As I also said a moment ago, we are all aware that, in relation to the needs of the economy and trade, people's health comes first and, only by limiting the causes of the epidemic, we will also be able to promote economic recovery, and we really need it so much. In all this the fastest possible administration of the vaccine can allow you to return to normal in a short time, so it is right to immunize all healthcare professionals - as has been said, it is those who face the virus in the front row - as well as the weakest categories, coming - as the National Vaccine Plan says very well - to vaccinate other categories as well, planning to anticipate vaccination for teachers to facilitate the reopening of schools, about which Senator Iori spoke very well before, as many other colleagues have done. The reopening of schools also goes through the vaccination of teachers and - I say - also young people, when it is time. In fact, if it is true that we need to get people out of hospitals and lighten our health facilities, we believe that school is another fundamental and important factor. It really is the health of our young people, even with regard to the mental discomfort they are experiencing right now. It is therefore a matter of finding an adaptive approach to the pandemic plan and vaccinations. Professor Brusaferro himself said that situations should be assessed and vaccinated in case of outbreaks. I am also thinking of other sectors, starting with transport, which must not only be reorganized; we must also think of transport operators, as well as prison staff, who are helping us at this time. It is therefore - I repeat - a matter of adapting in a flexible way what is a plan that we all know and which is very important to follow. Minister, I would like to add that the citizens are now very, very much over-tested and I am also really thinking about their mental health, to which I have just referred when talking about young people. It is also necessary to take on this aspect, which is not of little importance, because the psychological health of the individuals individually considered is the psychological health of the whole society, essential for the keeping of the same. As I feel and as I think we all see, there is beginning to be some resentment among people for what is happening. It is therefore essential that we also pay attention to psychological health, which is an important aspect which I would ask you to take into account. I think the prospects for another incoming vaccine, in addition to the two we have already had, are super-encouraging signals. We have seen that Europe has been good and united in this: we have all acted together for the acquisition of vaccines and I am convinced that we must learn from these signs too. We must be patient and have confidence, a lot of trust, also and above all in science and invest mainly in research: it is another message that is giving us this pandemic. Let's look at what we were able to have in a short time, thanks to the innovative technology of vaccines that have been studied. Minister, we once again trust you by voting in favour of the motion for a resolution that we have tabled. However, I believe that the common sense and responsibility of the citizens, whom I thank further, must continue to play a fundamental role in this important game, which is all about health. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u47	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I extend a cordial greeting - as is customary - to Minister Hope. As many have already said, she is always polite in her tones and also tries, with a style that we like, to affirm her own reasons. You have today made a speech full of hope, in the true sense of the word, because, in reality, you have spoken mainly of the National Vaccine Plan. He also used the term resisting - the verb resisting endlessly used it yourself - as if to say that the government faced, as far as possible "at least worst" the situation of the health emergency. He spoke several times of the need for national unity and, therefore, of the unity of the country, stating that only united can be destroyed this invisible enemy, that the night has not passed, that the contagions are still at the door and, indeed, even in slight growth (although our data are better than other countries of the European Union). Basically, then, she focused on the national vaccination plan, saying, among other things - although she said that the rankings are not of interest to her - that, with 800,000 vaccines, we are first in Europe. I do not know if we really are in first place in Europe, but I think, unfortunately, we are still slow. I have data, which refer not only to my own region, Abruzzo, according to which in the various ASLs and in the various hospitals where vaccinations are carried out against Covid-19, even the doses are slowing down because there are no doses. That's not good. More needs to be done to get more. Other countries - such as Israel, which has 9 million inhabitants - are already almost on the verge of arrival. Mr Dear Minister, on the timing, I understand that the speed and speed with which the National Vaccine Plan will be dealt with will have an extraordinary importance in solving the problem. It is not enough, that is, to administer vaccines: we must do so in a certain time! If the National Vaccine Plan is implemented very quickly, in that case, yes, the effectiveness of the Plan will be successful. I understand - for example - that in England, also because they want to achieve immunity from flock as soon as possible, because of the significant number of infected, they are thinking of not putting aside the second dose of vaccine, and trying to immunize, by administering the vaccine, the highest possible number of citizens. Begin to consider this hypothesis. I tell you frankly that what for us at Forza Italia seems right to say today is that everything has not gone well. [[Applause]] It is recalled that in recent months the slogan was: "It will be all right". Unfortunately, after about a year, we have to say that everything has not gone well. Ours was a serious and constructive opposition, an opposition of proposal and not of protest. Although the two terms seem similar, they are actually very different. [[Applause]] What we say with extreme regret, given the approach we give to the problems of our country - we care about the fate of the Italian people - is that in these months, when we have made proposals that have then turned out to be extremely useful, unfortunately almost never have been taken into consideration, and sometimes they have also been clumsily rejected by a majority that has almost always been deaf, because it considered that all things considered it was able never to be wrong. And, instead, it seems to me that this was not the case. In our opinion, you should have apologized to the Italians on many occasions, because many were the fall of style. [[Applause]] Moreover, it would not be bad for an active repentance, and I am referring, for example, to the proposals I mentioned earlier on the National Vaccine Plan. Mr Malan said just now that you are only able to deal with points 3 and 7 of our document with a certain propensity - as you say, you welcome them - but we believe that something more should be done. Of course, they are proposals to overcome the health emergency and, above all, to ensure that the national vaccination plan is dealt with more quickly, because we want everything to happen faster and faster. I tell you frankly, as a demonstration of the fact that everything has not gone well, that the critical situations in the past year are many: I quote - for example - the scandal of masks, which obviously stems from an absolute inadequacy of how to deal not only with supply but also with their use as well as issues still unresolved. The first point - for example - concerns the relationship between the State and the Regions, which still appears to be poorly effective and often appears to be a sort of barrel discharge, so much so that even in the first Commission we are thinking of overcoming the deadlock and confusion of roles with the intervention of a so-called supremacy clause. It is therefore clear that there is a problem that is still unresolved. [[Applause]] You mentioned that there is a majority in Parliament while there is another majority in the majority of the regions, so it is clear that this issue has not been dealt with effectively and still seems unresolved. Moreover, health care is not only a matter of direct management of the health organization of the many doctors, workers and nurses, but also and above all it concerns the management of a path that is reflected on other issues: on school, on local public transport, on the life of families. These are themes that - in our opinion - have highlighted vulnus, problems. If we want to talk about school, it cannot be done only in terms of dates, because - as my colleague Mr Cangini (our expert) reminded me - it is above all a matter of data rather than dates: we do not know exactly how many infections and outbreaks in schools; we only talk about when to close them or reopen them. Is there any chance of meeting these needs? Forza Italia has also made its proposals in this case; we have proposed - for example - that they be reopened by setting morning and afternoon shifts. The problem of staff - I tell you now - does not exist, it can be quietly solved; it is not a problem. As for local public transport, it may be true that it is a matter of regional competence, but something more had to be done. The Permanent Conference on Relations between the State, Regions and Autonomous Provinces serves to address particularly serious issues. [[Applause]] It is clear that the issue of local public transport is important. It's not enough to close the restaurants and bars, where maybe one person comes in every once in a while, and move a bus where so many people come in and pile up on each other. [[Applause]] Then there is the theme of the life of families: the family is the main place of contagion and I do not say it, that I am certainly not a doctor and so I am not able to do it, but the major health experts say it. It was necessary to try to close this vicious circle and address the issue of the life of families, proposing solutions. During the vaccination phase there was also a need to consider home care and the possibility to carry out vaccines at home. [[Applause]] , making sure that all this happens as soon as possible, strengthening also and above all territorial medicine. It's not a slogan: you have to do things. The Minister took charge of the elderly in his speech, saying that they are the third category to be supported and to which the National vaccination plan should be addressed. It's fine, but let's not forget that you don't get sick and you don't just die of Covid-19. [[Applause]] Our elders need more intervention and more protection. As the Minister said, they are the most fragile part and we care about them.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u48	I invite you to conclude, Senator Pagano.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u49	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am therefore voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by us and against all the others. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u52	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Minister Hope, ladies and gentlemen, [[Laughter and applause),]] We do not go into the substance of restrictive measures, because we do not have scientific knowledge. The Minister makes available to us the minutes of the Technical and Scientific Committee, but forty-five days after the adoption and issuing of the DPCM. This is unacceptable, Minister. [[Applause]] We should have the data in real time and I address all Members of Parliament, because this is obviously not just about the Members of the League. Let us now turn to the advice we can give to improve the situation. (Brusio). Please, ladies and gentlemen, more than the Senate today seems to be a market in a certain sense. Have some patience! [[Applause.]] We know that the goal is to keep the hospital pressure low and this seems to us the right strategy to pursue. Mr Minister - we say this to the whole majority - please write clear, reasonable rules and, above all, communicate them in a timely manner, because people today, with a yellow day, the day after orange and the next red day, make confusion and no longer understand the path they have to follow. [[Applause]] This is a big mistake, because in confusion we cannot make people understand how to move and what rules must be followed. We need reasonable rules and I thank the Minister for giving a favourable opinion on the third commitment of our motion for a resolution. Minister, in Lombardy, out of 10 million inhabitants there are 1,431 positive, compared with 13,000 swabs, with a positive rate of about 11%. Lombardy is an orange zone and is close to becoming a red zone. So explain to me how Campania, in which 9,000 tests were carried out and 1,021 were found positive, with a positive rate of 11.8 percent, with 5.8 million inhabitants, can be yellow zone. [[Applause]] Is it the scientific data involved in this case or is it the policy that intervenes? This is a question to which you must answer: beware of indicators, because those who make more swabs cannot risk being penalised. This would not really be a sign of uniformity and, above all, it would not be a scientific decision. Notify those who run activities in good time, Minister, because you cannot think that they should wait until Friday to know whether Saturday or Sunday they can open. We need programming; we need to be able to know first, so that we can also organize ourselves. By warning at the last moment, you really risk putting in further difficulty the activities that are already in collapse. Communicate first the initiatives and rules you want to carry out. [[Applause]] I am not here to invite you to open, to close, not to open, not to close, but simply to ask you to communicate in time. We need programming. Consider, then, also the hypothesis that you can still keep open activities maybe with more stringent protocols: if a restaurant has a size of 150 square meters and inside it can accommodate 40 people who are spaced not by a meter and a half, but maybe by three or five meters, why not let him work? [[Applause]] What I have mentioned is just one case, but the same applies to ski resorts: if one person climbs alone on the chairlift, with the distance between one place and the other - here there will be someone who has climbed a chairlift - will there be a problem of infection? Let's use some common sense and reasonableness. We apply more stringent protocols, but by making more activities work; in this way we can direct the refreshers on those activities that instead fail to comply with strict protocols, or they have too small sizes and spaces that do not allow them to work. This is also a suggestion: we are not criticizing, otherwise you come and tell us that we only know how to criticize and say that everything is not okay. What we fear, if not, is social revolt. Soon, among the people who will no longer have resources, anger and social revolt will begin to grow. If you then issue these provisions and impose even fines on persons who are already in difficulty [[Applause]] , do not come to say that it is the sovereigns of the League who fuel social tensions; be clear: we tell you already now. It is absurd, at a time like today, not to try to use common sense even when applying sanctions against those who do not respect the rules. On the school, everyone said it's important that the kids go back to school, but it takes security and investment, even on public transport. We're already working. We have poured considerable resources, in general, into the decrees that we have approved, on measures that are at least questionable, but we are already planning the idea of reopening schools in some time. Minister, listen carefully. Cinema, multi-sala, convention centers and fairs are spaces that can be used to support the school. As far as equal schools are concerned, we are looking for that public-private collaboration that allows our children to have the necessary space. [[Applause]] It will certainly not be a problem for teenagers aged 14 to 18 to reach a convention center or hotel. In this way we are able to support closed activities and at the same time we can guarantee that our children can go to school while keeping safe distances. [[Applause]] This is also a suggestion, a suggestion. On local public transport, it is enough to organize special courses for students only, putting a little more resources into the budget than those that have already been set up. I shall end my speech by addressing the issue of the vaccine plan. I do not go into organizational aspects, because I do not want to make controversy; I said it from the beginning, otherwise it seems to bring the same situations into play. There would be a lot of arguments, but let's forget it. Let's talk about the strategy to get a good mass vaccination. I know, Minister, that you are concerned, because it is an issue that has not been dealt with. Many citizens are not so convinced of the history of vaccines. The strategy has been wrong from the start. We're not gonna do the spectacularization, with everyone showing us what we're doing with the vaccine. The vaccine race creates insecurity in citizenship, as someone begins to doubt: why all this race so quickly, with vaccines that are still in the experimental phase? In the same way, the solution cannot be that if you do not have a vaccination you are fired. [[Brusio.]] Senator Mirabelli, listen to what I'm saying, otherwise we don't do a useful job for the community. The winning strategy is to create confidence in the population. Who do citizens trust? Politicians? No, they trust their doctor. However, if it is the same doctors or health care professionals who have doubts, it is not good. How Do You Create Trust? Through appropriate information, answering questions, calling all the basic doctors, explaining well that vaccines are actually safe, answering some questions that doctors themselves ask, creating information and transparency, giving rules, bringing strictness in the scientific field and perhaps organizing ad hoc television programmes. This creates that mechanism of trust and information that convinces the population to trust and get the vaccine. Mine's a piece of advice. I didn't say there was something wrong. Since there are fears, even more so, if we are intelligent and explain ourselves, the population is reassured. The more the obligation and the forced force increases, the more there is the risk of feeding the convictions of those who think that there are conspiracy and the will to establish a health dictatorship. [[Applause]] Transparency is the real way forward, with scientific and transparent evidence. Within a few months Italy will probably be vaccinated for the vast majority and we will finally have that immunity that we need to re-launch our country. Besides, don't tell us we didn't give you any advice. Foreword to vote in favour of our motion for a resolution and to vote against the motions for resolutions tabled by the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u55	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, kind senators, senators, Minister, it is clear to everyone that in a world in rubble for a pandemic and a recession that seems to have no end, there is no government in Europe at this moment that does not carry the crisms of unpopularity on its shoulders. Minister Hope, at this moment there is no one who, apart from what may be the speeches, wants to take his place, because every government must take terrible decisions at this time because the times are terrible. British friends, who have decided to do their own, have been in recession for the first time for eleven years: GDP collapsed by 20.4% in the April-June quarter compared - just to have a comparative term - to the Eurozone, where the figure was 12.1%. The British National Statistical Office has stated that the pandemic has wiped out 17 years of economic growth in just six months. Nor are our French friends better off, who have had to experience a historical collapse of GDP in the last period, the most serious since the post-war period. Think that the contraction that was recorded in Paris has reached the record value of 13.8 percent, higher than the Italian one. Not to mention Germany, the so-called and praised Germany, with Angela Merkel being forced to make a dramatic speech a few weeks ago to the nation, with the worst decline in the GDP indicator since 1970 and with a lockdown that in the next few hours may become even more severe and even more brutal for German citizens. Why do we quote this data from Movimento 5 Stars? Certainly not to say that, if there is a comfortable chair at this moment, this is the opposition chair, because you stand there, you count the fleas to the decisions of the government, maybe you also ride the wave of social tensions - true Senator Ripamonti? - and continue to treat citizens as if they were producers of electoral consent. [[Applause]] Why don't we really start today what we all call a turning point? Why do we not decide once and for all to start thinking differently and to start treating citizens for what they are? They are people to protect, people to protect in their families [[Applause]] , people to protect in their workplace, people to protect in their social life, because the data do not lie (although few data have been listed in this debate today). There's a pandemic, half a planet is closed for lockdown, and people die, senators and senators. I am saying this because I have heard a lot of jokes here today against that governor, against that minister, against that mayor, against that commissioner. I have heard a lot of insults and laughs, but outside this House there is no one laughing. [[Applause]] They don't laugh at the 2,636 people admitted to intensive care today, they don't laugh at the 3,492 people who died for Covid in the last week; they don't laugh like you are. We must understand from this crisis that we will all emerge stronger or weaker. This is a pandemic that does not distinguish political color and does not distinguish rank, census or latitude; this is a pandemic that binds us all to responsibilities that interweave and mirror each other. True, not everything is fine (I don't remember who said it). Of course not everything is fine: there are regional delays, there are local cavities, there are millions that have not yet been spent on local transport, on tracking, in the USA. But it doesn't matter; let's give a hand, gentlemen, because before us Minister Hope tells you that a third wave is coming, which is about to overwhelm the European continent. This is what the Minister has said to you today; it is therefore not time to divide us, but it is time to cooperate, each with its own powers. [[Comments]] Last night the Italian recovery plan came to light, within which the funds dedicated to health, also thanks to the intervention and contribution of Italy Viva, have risen to about 20 billion, which add to the 13 billion that this Government has dedicated to you last year. [[Applause]] We are talking about total resources of 33 billion, which is an exceptional figure for Italian health care. It is exceptional precisely because in the past decade and before 2018 health care had cuts of 37 billion, which translated into closed hospitals and deleted beds. The total of 33 billion dedicated to health care is money and investments that make sterile, superfluous and provocatively useless any kind of call to that money that lies in the safes of that intergovernmental technical body that has nothing to do with Europe and that is called ESM. [[Applause]] Let's face it. There's 33 billion and we did it ourselves. We did not go to the State of Luxembourg to ask for them; we do not need them. Senator Pagano, it didn't go well; he's right, but let's look abroad to appreciate the Italian sacrifice. Italy is not Germany or France, but in proportion to the financial capacities of France and Germany, this government has put more money into play. If Italy is at the top of Europe by the number of vaccines administered, it is not due to the Holy Spirit; it is because behind there have been weeks of sacrifice and work. [[Applause]] Let's face it. Let's recognize him. We of the Movimento 5 Stars, we apologize if in every intervention and in every speech we always put before the word "citizens". There are, however, millions and millions of Italians who are asking us to focus on the real things that the country needs. Senator and senator lords, Italy is asking us at this moment only one thing: the salvation of its citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u57	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u58	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, blaming the victim is a trial for which a person comes to feel guilty. It's some kind of self-confidence. In the financial crisis, for example, the victims of the banksters had been blamed for having lived above their possibilities, and in the newspapers and in the talks it was a triumph of economists who explained that the belt had to be pulled, that the time of austerity had arrived as just atonement. The same mechanism of guilt is being replicated with the health crisis: it is the fault of the citizens who spread the virus, who crowd in the center, who drink the aperitif, who even want the children back to school or who, even, would like to take public transport. The virologist replaces the economist in an equal plot. I mean, it's the people who didn't take the car lockdown. The government does what it can; it puts colorful pieces in it and sometimes gives the opportunity to go out, but only to see the effect it does and then to be able to tell us: was it your fault, now what do you want? Minister Hope said to leave your health out of the political battle. No, Minister Hope, leave your health out of business; the business of masks - pretends not to hear - branded FCA or imported from China. I am the emblem of your subjection to power. Minister, leave your health out of the greed of the multinationals. It is not possible for the drug multinationals to write contracts of which nothing can be known in detail. Governments pay and good night to the bucket and in case of vaccine damage, Big Pharma is immunized by responsibility because you have definitely given him also this total disease. The right to health does not pass from Big Pharma's right to increase billed and profits with our money. Finally, Minister Hope, do not leave your health to Arcuri's inability and arrogance. Stop! Stop! Stop! [[Applause]] What a painful theater to see this Arcuri threaten lawsuits, shutting the mouths of journalists with a straight back, who just want to know about the scandal of the trafficking of masks from China, the inflated costs and strange mediation societies. Once again it will be the judges who tell us who made the "magnata" because here there is a smell of great "magnata". The government is not honoring the constitutional right to the health of Italians, indeed it is putting them into the blame victim and so if any restaurateur or shopkeeper wants to resist the inexorable failure of enterprise, in the darkness of despair... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] . .of not his faults, here's that restaurateur must challenge the rules, the DPCM and the media campaign. Hopefully, a year of your inability is summed up in the face of Arcuri, in the masks of Elkann or the Chinese, or in the syringes of the next one who will make the money thanks to the government. More than in emergency, we are at great times. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u60	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u61	RICHETTI (Mixed-+Eu-Az). Mr President, until the last minute we do not give up offering the Italian institutions that, even at a time not as easy as this, a way of acting in Parliament in ways that I think are profoundly wrong. I greatly appreciated, Minister, the way in which you have today used tones of gravity and institutional seriousness. If the entire government had done so in these difficult months for everyone, we would have avoided some more trouble. You have today made an appeal to Parliament for responsibility and unity. Allow me to welcome your appeal and also allow me to address from the opposition to the Government an appeal for responsibility and unity. This is in fact the moment when the country cannot see any republican institution acting lightly and superficially. I want to say this because we are all aware that today a new and very delicate phase of the country is opening, in which are banned the indecorous whistles and shows, that we have seen here, but are also banished the easy triumphalisms that we have used in some phases of the management of the pandemic. As my colleague Mr Errani said, we cannot deny that the data of the first phase, which are encouraging data on vaccinations, concern health workers at a stage when vaccinations to the population have not even begun. Can we all focus, majority and opposition, on the work to be done instead of propaganda and the sale of data that has not yet begun? This is fundamental, without accusations and without criticism. I am addressing my colleague Mr Errani: we are ready for a job of loyal cooperation. He referred to the vaccine plan, the restaurant and the rules. Minister, the first area on which to create cooperation is respect for Parliament: never again measures without the possibility of discussion, abuse of DPCM, even open budgetary laws. Together with Mr Bonino, Operation plus Europe, we have tabled a resolution, and I thank you for your attention, which has three very simple points: sharing vaccines with the Chambers of the Plan, transparency and institutional communication, surveillance of immunological properties. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to withdraw the premise on which the Government has not made itself available and to maintain the commitments on which it has expressed a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u62	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. On the reformulation proposal No. 1, the Government's opinion is only favourable to the operative part, with some changes. Senator De Falco, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u63	Mr President, I accept the rewording and ask that we vote only on the part on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u64	So you withdraw the premise of the motion for a resolution and also accept the changes requested by the Government? DE FALCO (Misto-+Eu-Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Falco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on the Senators Iori, Pirro, Errani, Garavini and Steger to vote on the motion for a resolution simultaneously. (The vote was followed). Senator Fedeli can't enter the card? Isn't the computer connected? It's not working. We record Senator Faedeli's vote in favour. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On the proposal for rewording No 3 the Government's opinion is only favourable to the three commitments of the operative part. Senator Richetti has already said earlier that he withdraws the first part, that of the premise. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3 (text 2), tabled by Senators Richetti and Bonino. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On motion for a resolution No 4, the Government's opinion is in favour only of the third and seventh commitments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u67	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to ask for a split vote on Resolution No 4. In particular, I would like to vote separately on commitments 3 and 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u68	The request for a split vote must be approved by the Assembly with a vote by show of hands, but since there has been some problem with the division of the various senators, in order to facilitate the calculation of the votes, pursuant to Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure, I have the electronic vote in order to obtain the opinion of the Assembly on this request. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the request for a split vote made by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 1), 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11) and 12) of the motion for a resolution tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points 3 and 7 of the motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u71	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, I have decided to speak in this House today because on Tuesday, in Corato, a fire was set in front of a pizzeria around 2:00 a.m. The investigations are currently under way to try to find out who is responsible and why this was done. The one on the other night is just one of the many murderous events that have been taking place in Corato and neighbouring countries in recent years. An unsustainable situation for the community. The data collected by the Criminal Analysis Service of the Central Criminal Police Directorate actually reveals an increase in the crimes consumed, especially as regards thefts and damages, especially during the night hours. With the question 4-01695 of 2019 I signaled to the then Ministers of the Interior and Defence the need to intervene, and this necessity is even more urgent today, in full pandemic. Therefore, if, on the one hand, the intervention of the Armed Forces is increasingly necessary, on the other, in consideration of the competitions carried out, we ask that personnel belonging to the Forces of the Order be assigned to protect the safety of the people as well as the entrepreneurial activities. Since then, something has been done, but it is still too little; too little for the citizens of Corato and neighbouring countries to be granted the right to feel safe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u74	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, on 4 January, the Government desecrated the National Charter of Areas potentially suitable for the storage of nuclear waste, which identifies about 60 potential sites throughout Italy, including 14 selected areas in Sardinia. It stops the need, now urgent, to make this map public, in order to start the complex procedure of identifying the site most suitable for receiving these radioactive waste - the procedure will require, however, not less than forty-four months - we think of the European infringement procedure, the costs we pay in bills to conserve these waste, but above all the safety problems for the communities living in the currently precarious sites. Despite this, however, we cannot fail to remind our rulers of the political and social position of the Sardinians on this issue. The Sardinians, already in 2003, by a regional law formally expressed their views on the prohibition of nuclear installations and the prohibition of the storage of radioactive waste in Sardinian territory, declaring Sardinia a denuclearised territory. But there's more. The Sardinian people, with an advisory referendum, expressed themselves almost plebiscytically in 2011 (about 97.13 percent) for nuclear power in Sardinia. That is why, today, the Sardinian people intend to reaffirm here, in this House, firmly this position, which sees all of them as compact, social partners and political partners, in saying no to the deposit of nuclear waste in Sardinia, in the 14 sites incomprehensiblely identified by Sogin society. This is because the storage in Sardinia would involve problems of transport in the sea of highly radioactive material, because Sardinia already hosts important military servitudes (Quirra, Teulada, Capo Frasca), polluted industrial servitudes, areas never reclaimed that have damaged the agropastoral tissue of the island. I'm thinking Porto Torres, Sulcis. Let us not forget that Sardinia is also an island with a touristic vocation, with a naturalistic, landscaped and archaeological heritage to be preserved even by works of this type. For this reason, as a representative of the institutions for the Sardinian citizens, I firmly confirm that all the Sardinian people, with the Region and the leading municipalities, will present to the Government adequate and full scientific documentation to prove that Sardinia can never be site for the storage of nuclear waste. I thank the whole House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u77	CORTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my fellow Senators, the heavy snowfalls that from Christmas to Epiphany have affected the central-northern Apennines and the Alpine arch have once again caused severe inconveniences and considerable damage to mountain citizens. In particular, the Modena Apennines did not fall so much snow since the winter of 1985. Entire villages have remained isolated and powerless. Only the extraordinary work of private individuals and canton workers allowed transit on provincial roads 324 and 486, as well as on Abetone highway 12. However, in front of the more than 2 meters of snow fallen at the foot of Abetone and the Roots, the connections with Tuscany reopened only on January 9 and still today the connection with Garfagnana is closed due to snow, trees and debris. To fire, forest, carabinieri skiers, civil protection, farmers, Enel provincial workers and volunteers all who have assisted isolated communities and are monitoring the risk avalanche goes my thanks. Now, however, we are at the damage count. Numerous companies have suffered the collapse of the roofs of the sheds under the immense weight of snow and - just to name one - the plant of the High Ceramic of the Municipality of Frassinoro has damaged those machines that give work to more than 30 families. What about the huge costs of the snowshoeing? The only province of Modena in this early winter spent 300,000 euros of salt and scaffolding. At -5 degrees the salt serves little and then is spread with gravel, which will then damage the road coat. What and how much will be the damage on the roads this spring? What and how many funds are available for Provinces and Municipalities? What, moreover, about the tragic situation of the ski resorts of our ski resorts? In the government one gets caught up in the armchairs, while the entire tourist section of the mountain is exhausted. We are talking about a wide chain, which includes ski instructors, planters, hoteliers, traders, restaurateurs, seasonal workers, a sector that, only in the Emilian Apennines, involves over 2,000 people. The mountain regions have estimated a damage of 12 billion and need immediately 5 lost funds. I am concerned by the President of Federfuni, Andrea Formento, and the president of the Cimone district, Luciano Magnani, urging the Government to provide parametric aid to the revenues of recent years. In the absence of a tourist movement that guarantees work for all the economic induced, what will the inhabitants of the mountain do? Are we going to have to migrate and make woodcuts like our grandparents did? Let's remember that a possible recovery on a lost season cannot take place immediately, but, necessarily, it is necessary to wait for the next season. Let us also remember that the mountain represents an area where costs, difficulties and uncomfortableness are much higher than others. We must support a precise, timely and practical and not theoretical assessment of economic aid, in order to avoid the now more than fearsome fall of the mountain economy. When a company closes in the mountains, unfortunately, it will never reopen again, Let's remember that. Mountain entrepreneurs are not only tour operators, they are also political operators, since they have direct contact with people who love the mountain, but who still have much to take from the mountain. Defeating the death of mountain tourism and not remaining immobile is the intention of the League. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u80	PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, once again I have to talk about boars and wolves. Coming to the situation, wild boars are infected and swine fever anointers. Minister Bellanova says he is drafting a decree for prevention through an organic management and control plan: the usual monitoring. On the A26, near Novara, a few months ago two young people died who hit a herd of wild boars. In Guarene, near Alba, a family father died a year ago. In Milan they enter the city, on the Naviglio: one is shot down, because it was a bit fierce; the others are sedated and brought back to the countryside. For me they had to be taken directly to the restaurant. In Rome they enter a playground and are killed: compliments to the manager who has decided. Someone wanted to adopt them and I don't quote the name, for chrissakes of Homeland. In Asti a wounded boar in turn hurts a passerby. In some party meetings of recent times someone has said that it is necessary to use contraception: it is necessary to see who is going to adopt it materially. A question put by a Member of this House says that the boar is being hunted despite the bans, speaking on behalf of millions of Italians. I want to speak on behalf of the other millions of Italians, who I hope are more, beyond the parties. Let us return to ourselves: first people, all; then, after a large empty space, wild boars and wolves. [[Applause]] I receive videos of wolves devouring watchdogs in the courtyards of the house (if you want, I send them to you: these are videos of fixed cameras of owners of homes of Piedmont and Liguria, in the specific case). We must reduce the exorbitant number of specimens: we are talking about 2 million, but in my opinion there are many more. Fortunately there is someone willing to shoot; otherwise, the Army is needed, and immediately. Article 19 of Law 157 of 1992. Undersecretary L'Abbate says that you must first hear the ISPRA, make selective reduction plans, distinguished by gender and age class (I don't know how to do it) and train hunters; however, these hunters must always be able to shoot: live the hunt! The provincial hunting guards must be doubled in number, but immediately, because the problem is real and real, for the safety and safety of people.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u81	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-291.ana.u82	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 14 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.56 p.m.
