ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr GINETTI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I should like to inform the honourable Member that following the adoption of Decree-Law No 22 of 1 March 2021 on urgent arrangements for the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries, the President of the Republic appointed Professor Roberto CINGOLANI by his own decree adopted today on my proposal. Minister for the Environmental Transition, Mr Enrico GIOVANNINI Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Mr Dario FRANCESCHINI Minister for Culture and Mr Massimo GARAVAGLIA Minister for Tourism. F.to Mario Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law 2066. The rapporteur, Senator Garruti, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u6	Mr President, I would like to ask you for a few minutes' suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u7	As there are no objections, I suspend the sitting which will resume at 10.10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.05 a.m. and resumed at 10.11 a.m.) The session is resumed. Please, Senator Garruti.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u8	Mr President, the measure before us contains further urgent measures to curb the spread of the Covid-19, as well as provisions on the holding of elections for the year 2021. The decree-law consists of six articles. Article 1, paragraphs 1 and 2, differs from 31 January to 30 April 2021 the time limit for the applicability of restrictive measures contained in Article 1 of Decree-Law No 19 of 25 March 2020, as well as further measures concerning movements, meetings and developments in economic activities dictated by Decree-Law No 33 of 16 May 2020. In the course of the examination in the Commission was approved, with some sub-amendments, the government amendment 1,1000, which transfuses the content of Decree-Law 23 February 2021, No 15 in the measure under consideration and, consequently, without prejudice to the effects produced, provides for the repeal of both the same Decree-Law No 15 and Decree-Law No 12 of 12 February 2021, as absorbed. Article 1 of the measure under consideration, following the approval of this amendment, provides until 27 March 2021 for the prohibition, already in force, of any movement between different regions and autonomous provinces, with the exception of those motivated by proven working needs, situations of need or health reasons. In any case, you may return to your home, home or home. Moreover, until that date, it is allowed in the regional area in the yellow zone and in the municipal area in the orange zone to move to a single private inhabited house, once a day, in a time span between 5 o'clock and 22 o'clock, within the limits of two additional persons compared to those already living there, in addition to the minors of fourteen years over which such persons exercise parental responsibility and the disabled and non-self-sufficient persons living together. The measure referred to in this paragraph shall not apply in the red zone. If, then, mobility is limited to the territory of the municipality, it is still possible to move from the municipalities with a population not exceeding 5,000 inhabitants and for a distance not exceeding 30 kilometers from its borders, with the exclusion in any case of the movements to the provincial capitals. Finally, the inclusion in Article 1 of Decree-Law 16 May 2020, No 33 of the names "yellow zone', "orange zone', "red zone' and "white zone', already used in the implementing measures to define the zones characterized by different types of scenario (1, 2 and 3), different degree of epidemiological risk and with a certain weekly incidence of contagions every 100,000 inhabitants, according to the parameters already regulated in paragraphs 16-c and 16-d of the same Article 1 of Decree-Law No 33. Article 2 provides that the violation of the provisions of Article 1 shall be sanctioned in accordance with Article 4 of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020. In the course of the examination in the contact person, the Commission approved an amendment to specify that, in line with the provisions of Decree-Law No 33 of 2020, the proceeds of administrative financial penalties relating to infringements of the provisions of this Decree established after the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this Decree-Law are donated to the State when the infringements are established by official officials and agents of the State. The same proceeds are donated to the Regions, Provinces and Municipalities when violations are detected by official officials and agents of the Regions, Provinces and Municipalities respectively. Moreover, with the approval of two identical amendments, it is established that until the date of cessation of the epidemiological emergency state for Covid-19, the suspension of the activities of cultural and social recreational circles, adopted in the context of the measure of contrast and containment of the spread of SARS-Cov-2 virus throughout the national territory, does not determine the suspension of the activities of food and drink administration of the associations included between the entities of the third sector, referred to in Legislative Decree No 117 of 3 July 2017, which may continue in compliance with the conditions and safety protocols established by the legislation in force for economic activities having the same and similar object and in such a way as to avoid any form of assembly even occasional or any form of aggregation for the purposes proper to those institutions. Article 3 concerns certain profiles of vaccination activity for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 virus infections. In particular, in line with the existing European and national provisions on the protection of personal data, a national information platform is established to facilitate, on the basis of the needs identified, the distribution activities on national territory of vaccination doses, devices and other supporting materials for administration and tracing. The platform is prepared and managed by the Extraordinary Commissioner for the implementation of the coordination of the measures necessary for the containment and the fight against the epidemiological emergency Covid-19, who, using mainly the support of companies with public participation, operates in a coordinated manner with the various institutional entities involved and, in agreement with the Ministry of Health and the Department of Regional Affairs and the autonomous ones, informs periodically the Permanent Conference for the relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces on the state of implementation of the strategic plan. The different stages of vaccination are entrusted to the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces that use their own information and vaccination systems as treatment holders. However, if the vaccination information system of a Region or Autonomous Province is not adequate, at the request of the same body, the national platform shall, under subsidiarity, carry out the operations of booking vaccinations, recording the administration of vaccines and certifying them. The Autonomous Regions and Provinces, through their own information systems or through the national platform, transmit to the Ministry of Health all information related to the administration of vaccines on an individual basis, in accordance with the decree of the Minister of Health of 17 September 2018, establishing the National Vaccine Registry. They are also required to transmit data on the bookings of vaccinations in aggregate form to the Ministry of Health which will make available to the national platform monitoring tools both of bookings and of the administration of vaccines. It is also expected that in order to enable immunological and pharmacological epidemiological surveillance activities to be carried out, the Minister of Health will transmit to the Higher Institute of Health the identified data on the subjects to whom SARS-CoV-2 vaccination has been administered in the National Vaccine Registry. Finally, the expenditure of EUR 966,000 for 2021 for the upgrading of the technological infrastructure and the application of the National Vaccine Registry is authorised. Article 4 provides for elections to be held for 2021. In particular, it is expected that the supplementary elections for Chamber and Senate seats declared vacant by 28 February 2021 will take place by 20 May 2021. To this end, Article 31-c of Decree-Law No 137 of 2020, the so-called ristori decree, which stated, in the previous text, that the supplementary elections for the seats of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, declared vacant by 31 December 2020, should take place by 31 March 2021. Also the deadline within which the elections of the elected bodies of the municipalities dissolved for mafia infiltration, already subject to the first extension, carried out by article 1, paragraph 4-terdecies, of Decree-Law No 125 of 2020, is ulteriorly deferred from 31 March to 20 May 2021. With regard to this article, an amendment was approved in the Commission which also extends to 2021 the application of the rule referred to in Article 1-a, paragraph 5, of Decree-Law No 26 of 2020, which had established, for the elections in the Regions with ordinary statutes of 2020, that the minimum number of subscriptions required for the submission of lists and applications, due to the pandemic by Covid-19, was reduced to a third. Moreover, this proposal also extends to 2021 the possibility for each Region to provide normative provisions other than those contained in paragraph 5 of the same article, in order to prevent and reduce the risk of contagion from Covid-19. Article 5 novels article 3-a, paragraph 3, of Decree-Law No 125 of 2020, in order to extend until 30 April 2021 the validity of residence permits of third-country nationals, as well as residence permits, which are due to expire during the period between 31 December 2020 and that date. Finally, Article 6 provides that the decree-law shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u9	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 13 January deferred the state of emergency to 30 April next, and so the Decree-Law No 2 of 2021, which we are about to convert into law today, differs in the same term the applicability of all restrictive measures, which at the moment still appear necessary to contain the risk of spreading infection from Covid-19. The regulatory intervention of the new Government and the discussions in the competent Commissions on the decree-law under consideration, which we recall is in force since 14 January, have made possible small modifications, making it more uniform and harmonious, with regard to the indication of the dates of the end of the measures, and defining better and more simply the content of the designation of areas at high risk of contagion, up to those with a moderate risk and low risk, with the clear indication of the limits of movement in the regional and municipal context. The case of the passage of the regional territory from the yellow to the orange area is extended, including a white zone, free from any restrictions applicable to red, orange and yellow areas, without prejudice to the application of certain measures and protocols. [[Brusio]] Mr President, I would like to ask whether colleagues can put an end to the buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u11	I would ask colleagues to stop the buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u12	VONO (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President. The decree-law provides, in Article 2, for sanctions in the case of violation of the measures of containment of the contagion, outlining also the procedure of application, with an explicit reference to the sanctioning apparatus in force. In fact, according to the violation committed, administrative, financial and ancillary sanctions are put in place and, among them, it seems useful to recall the postponement to the violation of the non-compliance with a legally given order, in order to prevent the invasion or the spread of an infectious disease of the human being, ex Article 260 of the Single Text of the sanitary laws (in the event that the fact does not integrate a criminal offence against public health or in any case a more serious crime), the non-compliance of the quarantine, and for which the sanction consists of the arrest from three to eighteen months and the fine from 500 to 5.000 euro, with the exclusion, for the combination of joint penalties, of the possibility of oblation. Some profiles of the vaccination activity are then defined, with the forecast of the establishment of a national information platform to facilitate the distribution activities on the national territory of the vaccination doses, devices and all the supporting materials for the administration and the relative tracing; the connection with the National Vaccine Registry, established by the Ministerial Decree of 17 September 2018; the information by the extraordinary commissioner (which we recognize today in General Son, to whom we wish good work), in agreement with the Minister of Health and with the Minister of Regional Affairs and the self-government, at the Permanent Conference for the relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces on the state of implementation of the national strategic plan of the vaccines in question. The decree-law then, in article 4, paragraph 1, letters a) and b), postpones the supplementary elections for the seats declared vacant Chamber and Senate, which must take place by May 20. Similarly, by the same date, elections for municipalities whose organs have been dissolved by mafia infiltrations shall be deferred, extending the duration of the extraordinary Commission's management by way of derogation from the rules in force. In addition, Article 5 provides for the extension, until 30 April, of the validity of residence permits of third-country nationals, as well as the effectiveness of residence permits in the field of immigration, including in the extension scheme those which expire between 31 December 2020 and 30 April 2021. It is therefore a decree-law that continues to provide for extensions to those restrictive measures, which are very stringent in some cases, adopted immediately with a succession of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, in order to cope with a new and sudden situation, which has taken the world by surprise; measures that have conditioned the personal freedoms of each of us in these months. These measures have limited the right to move freely through urban roads, parks, public spaces, the right to attend places of leisure and entertainment, the right to take advantage of educational services and didactics in the presence of our children and even the right to work. Indeed, if the Cassa Integrazione and the blocking of dismissals have temporarily resolved the working situation of many employees, it is undeniable that in the short term a bold intervention on active labour policies is needed. It is undeniable also the deep crisis of many activities of professional and craft enterprises, which have not overcome the serious difficulties due to the limitation and suspension of the same activities, with serious economic damage, but in particular social damage, where the same dignity of the people was unfortunately sacrificed, without the necessary measures, not of refreshment, but of opening and solution of crisis tables at various levels. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the time for recriminations and therefore it is correct and honest intellectually to say that the measures introduced with the various measures of so-called prevention of the epidemiological emergency, despite the consequences that are visible to all and for which, by virtue of media speculation of propaganda, we have heard everything and the opposite of everything in recent months, have served to protect a fundamental and absolute right guaranteed by our Constitutional Charter: the right to health of all of us. Faced with an unknown virus that has spread rapidly all over the world and so also in our Italian regions it was necessary to intervene - and still is - with limitations to some rights of freedom, with an extraordinary regulatory instrument and that now with this decree continue. However, there is a difference with regard to the first and that is that at the same time they are changing balances, which will certainly allow us to manage with a different view every health situation and to act in a coordinated way to mitigate, as a result, the socio-economic repercussions in the regions of the North, as in the regions of the South. For example, I am thinking of my Calabria, where a new management with greater competence of the vaccination plan is needed, whose speed, but above all the best organization also at the level of interlocation and confrontation in Europe and with the Regions, is fundamental in order to deal better in the immediate, and finally to overcome then, this period of pandemic that has now changed, perhaps irrecoverably, our habits of life. However, I would like to say that it will never change our desire to move forward, creating the conditions of trust in the future for all our young people, in whom we have a duty to ensure that the challenges of the coming years can be tackled as protagonists. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u13	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u14	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the incidence of the epidemic in almost all Italian regions is still very worrying and high. This underlines the need, satisfied by the decree under consideration, to take still strict measures to combat and limit the spread of the epidemic. The postponement to 31 April 2021 of the end of the adoption of extraordinary measures for the containment of the spread of the Covid-19 and the reduction of the risk of contagion concerning restrictions on the movement and assembly of persons, as well as the development in safe conditions of economic, productive and social activities finds justification in the current evolution of the epidemiological framework in which - it is observed - the curve of the contagions remains always too high. In fact, for the second week in a row there is an increase in infection of 22 percent more than last Sunday. This indicates that the continuous circulation of the virus is in place mainly due to the particular characteristics of the new variants. Therefore, the management of a new phase of the epidemiological emergency and, as mentioned, the particularly widespread nature of the virus cannot yet require urgent and stringent intervention measures. The color system, particularly criticized, was introduced by the previous Executive led by President Giuseppe Conte, to whom I once again express deep gratitude in this House for the work done and for the hard and difficult choices it had to adopt in the darkest period of our republican history. [[Applause]] The color system, which has been so insulted in this House, has averted a harsh lockdown hypothesis which would have had even heavier consequences. It should be remembered above all that we are one of the few countries that has managed to avoid this lockdown, unlike the many others that are always mentioned, such as the United Kingdom and Germany, that have necessarily had to resort to a hard, long and generalized lockdown. However, due to the high spread of the new variants, action is needed to make the necessary corrections and subsequent adjustments to the new epidemiological scenario. Before analysing the provisions relating to the vaccination plan, I would like to focus on Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which deals with the terms of the supplementary elections of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic and those relating to the elections of the elected bodies in the municipalities dissolved by mafia infiltration, as well as the renewal of the municipal elections following the possible cancellation of the electoral results of certain sections. Article 4 provides that these elections must take place by 20 May 2021. Certainly the measure provides for a suspension of the popular will to exercise the constitutionally guaranteed right to vote. This is a heavy measure that affects the primary interest enshrined in the Constitution, of course worthy of protection, but which is justified by the need to contain contagions. Moving thousands of people to vote, as the President of the Republic also pointed out in the formation of this Government, could have unacceptable consequences with regard to the current epidemiological situation. Therefore, the postponement of electoral consultations remains necessary due to the seriousness of the epidemiological situation. Finally, the decree under consideration, in Article 3, establishes a national information platform whose primary aim is to ensure the optimisation of the activity of distribution of vaccination doses, devices and materials to support administration on national territory. This platform will be indispensable to ensure the uniform implementation of the strategic plan throughout the territory, but above all to avoid any discrimination of treatment between municipalities and Italian citizens. Sure, that's not enough. On the contrary, today the main efforts of the new Government must be directed to the vaccination plan, to the urgency of immediate implementation of phase 2 of the programme. The original predictions of the SARS-CoV-2 vaccination strategy plan should be made in relation to the actual availability of vaccines due to non-delivery of doses. And on this point I hope that President Draghi will also exert due pressure on the institutions of the European Union. We cannot be hostages of arbitrary choices made by pharmaceutical companies. The country's priority is to guarantee vaccines immediately. In addition, account must be taken of the limitations for the administration of the vaccine produced by AstraZeneca, suitable only for subjects under the age of sixty-five years, i.e. excluded from the early stages of the original vaccination plan. In conclusion, Mr President, the only thing to do is to act quickly, to increase the daily intakes by taking advantage of any possible and suitable place to speed up the vaccination campaign. The only weapon we have at our disposal to defeat this terrible virus is the vaccine and quickly immunizing large sections of the population means affecting its circulation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were able to read the first DCCM of the Draghi era. I'm not hiding from you that I was a little curious to see what the government of the best could have produced. Well, reading it, we could see that nothing has changed in essence: the old Article 12 is now Article 3; the old Article 5 is divided in half between the new Article 5 and the new Article 6; the very long old Article 1 is diluted in the slenderest Articles 1, 2, 7, 9, 10 and 11. However, colleagues, there are exactly the same things written in it. Count's latest DCCM of 14 January and the new DCCM of the Government of the best resemble in everything: same colors, same words, same contents and unfortunately same philosophy that could be summarized in three simple statements: closing everything, closing everything, closing everything! This is the new philosophy, exactly the same as the one before the government of the best. Yet, in the meantime I do not think that the Italian Constitution has changed. I would like to remind my colleagues a little 'distracted of the old and new majority that Article 13 of the Constitution always states that personal freedom is inviolable; that Article 16 of the Constitution stipulates that every citizen can move and reside freely in any part of the national territory, without prejudice to the limitations that the law lays down in general for health and safety reasons; that Article 17 always states that citizens have the right to meet peacefully; that Article 34 always states that the school is open to all; that Article 30 always says that the Republic protects work in all its forms and applications and Article 41 always says that private economic initiative is free. The Constitution has not changed. Yet, ladies and gentlemen, many of you, especially those who are members of the minority of the majority today, when Count DPCM came out shouted, - he quotes authoritative members of the parties that have entered the new majority - spoke of legal coups, of health dictatorship, of questionable instrument, of usurpation of powers, of unconstitutional scandal, of Constitution trampled on and of limitation of freedoms with the DPCMs that exonerate Parliament. These are just some of the quotations of those who used to shout at the scandal and today have been completely silent, accepting these instruments that represent - in our opinion - not the new that advances, but simply an absolute continuity with the old Government Count II, which we could safely call, instead of the Government Dragons, the Government Count-b. I do not have to remind you of the alarms launched by authoritative constitutionalists like Sabino Cassese, who recently declared that sooner or later the Consulta will also reject anti-Covid measures and emphasized that with these DPCM there is an area reserved for legislative action, among other things in a paradoxical way, creating confusion among citizens. And I must not remind you of the recent ruling of the Rome Court of 16 December last year, which established that the DCCM is an administrative act that cannot restrict fundamental freedoms, even - be it careful - if to legitimize it is an act that has the form of law. Of all this, the government's new DCCM, which we were able to read yesterday, simply made rag paper. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not opposed to measures being taken to contain the calamity that has struck Italy and the whole world - and that is all - but we believe that these measures which affect the fundamental freedoms enshrined in our Constitution should be discussed in the appropriate and appropriate forum, which is Parliament. And I am also referring to the high call of the President of the Senate a few weeks ago: this is the place where we have to discuss measures that affect personal freedom, freedom of movement, freedom of economic initiative, freedom to live a life worthy of this name. Here we must decide, above all, in a reasonable way how we can intervene on what is no longer an emergency as it could have been a year ago, because emergency means an unforeseen and unpredictable circumstance. The second wave was not only not unexpected or unpredictable, it was even announced. Yet, the previous government, of which more than half of the ministers of the new government were members, has done absolutely nothing to deal with the second round. Today we are no longer, unfortunately, in an emergency, but we are in a situation that is known to all and was expected. We must imagine that it is not always and only possible to close everything down, among other things only by guilty of certain categories. It makes no sense to continue to argue that restaurants can stay open for lunch, but they have to close in the evening: what's the point? If the virus circulates at lunch, it also circulates in the evening. We need to establish rules, we need protocols, as we had also imagined we could. All economic activities - bars, restaurants, cinemas, theatres, gyms and sports facilities - that adapt to these protocols (distantisation, use of masks, sanitisation, all the precautions of this world) and health protection requirements must be able to continue and resume their activities. This is what we say about Brothers of Italy. Of course, we would like the masks to be true and not to do so, like the ones that the former - fortunately - bought, Commissioner Arcuri. [[Applause]] Of course, we would like to see checks on the purchases we make for the protection we give our health care and all citizens. But we would also like to ask ourselves - for example - about public transport, because it is clear that the infection is there; but there is no intervention. And we would also like to ask ourselves why eight - I say eight - exponents of Brothers of Italy who safely make a press conference are fined and, at the same time, we are witnessing incredible shows of hundreds and hundreds of migrants massed, against whom no one intervenes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u17	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u18	Mr President, members of the Government, I have to say that the feeling of disorientation that many colleagues have recorded in the passage from Counte-bis to the new Dragons Government, too, was very strong. It seems to me - according to a famous phrase of one of the most famous novels in Italy - that everything changes because nothing really changes. This feeling began last week with confidence; in the face of such an enlarged majority, one could not understand the need for trust. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u19	May I ask colleagues who are close to Senator Binetti to lower their voices, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u20	Please, Senator Binetti. BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Thanks to you, Mr President, this is a kind tribute to women too. I would like to stress that this surprise - we could almost call it a lack of surprise, because everything goes on in the same way - I had it even when, precisely with regard to the decree-law that we are about to convert, we saw a very ambiguous operation: a decree-law that was subsequently issued was downgraded to amendment, with times so fast that the Commissions did not have the time to study it, nor to face it, nor to subemend it. We found ourselves in front of a veritable raid. If this operation had been carried out by the previous government, we would have given it to be acquired as one of the classic maneuvers for which Parliament is decidedly underestimated by the government. But from this Government we expect something more: one of the things we really expect is a greater appreciation of Parliament, that is, the role of each of us, positive, concrete and incisive. This thing is missing in Count-A and we were all hoping it could come true in the Dragon Government. Having said that, another thing that interests me is that in reality, then, this decree-law is nothing more than a color map, in which perhaps there is a greater surgical precision in defining the contours of the various zones. We have seen, among the many colors (yellow, orange and red), also the reinforced orange, which places constraints, which somehow limits the freedoms and makes it more difficult for us to understand exactly what can be done or not. We are, therefore, at a time of stunning, which does not make it possible for Parliament to distribute clarity, serenity and security in the different territories. And then the fragmented dialogue between the Commission and Parliament does not allow Parliament itself to have a confrontation with the clearer, more serene and safer territories. At the moment, the only central issue in the public debate is vaccines. I have to say that everyone has noted as an element of change the fact that Dr. Arcuri has passed to other functions and that the control and predisposition of the vaccination plan has been called a person who, in principle, should have great experience in the organization of a wide system. However, I have to say to the government - as well as to the people who listen to us from home - that precisely the latter do not have the clear ideas about when and what vaccines will come and the choice they will be able to make: not only whether to vaccinate or not, but also with which vaccine. They don't know the timing, and they don't know if it's okay if the guy who got Covid-19 gets shots. And they do not know it not because it is complex issues, which require a specific competence or studies of a certain depth behind them, but because the contradiction continues to be strong also in the communication that is given through the media. President Draghi, who spoke on a few occasions, had recommended - let us call it this - a certain discretion in communication, precisely to avoid the state of confusion. But if we think that everything remains the same in the way in which the interventions take place, the only hope is that the vaccine will arrive in real time and to everyone, taking into account some preliminaries. We pointed out yesterday, on the occasion of the rare disease day, how important it was for people with rare diseases to be considered as fragile and entitled to the vaccine. However, we cannot understand how, in fact, we organize these sequences. We can see that the vaccination plan is constantly in progress, but we can never grasp it. We don't know anything about the vaccine registry. Yet, we know how important it will be, at some point, to be able to testify and ensure that a person is vaccinated, because this will determine a kind of driving licence in order to move: if you are vaccinated, you will be able to do certain things; otherwise, you will not be able to do them. It is therefore really important to have the vaccine registry, but we do not know anything about it. The experts give us different information and the questions we have tabled have not been answered; in this regard, I ask the current Government to take as a positive challenge the need to respond to questions put by Members of Parliament, because every question is a problem involving a part of the population. We are waiting for important answers precisely in terms of vaccinations, which also concern AstraZeneca. It seems that it takes Pfizer three weeks for the second dose, while for AstraZeneca it takes ten weeks: what does it depend on? People are afraid that the expansion of information is actually some sort of fog. We know nothing about the time of arrival of Johnson & Johnson vaccine or other vaccines, which are all suspended, as a promise that is not fulfilled. Mr President, members of the Government, this is also a matter of doubt as to how Europe is managing this operation. All of us are convinced Europeans and want to move in the overall solidarity that guarantees the health of all, because it is clear, as in this case, that either everyone is saved or any variant that escapes control is enough to revive a new wave of epidemics. But the gnawing that President Draghi seems to have done in Europe in his first public act as President of the Council, precisely on vaccines, says a lot about the fact that the previous management probably had not been so satisfactory nor so able to guarantee all the European countries. These are the real problems people are waiting to answer. Everything else now depends on it. Paradoxically, the whole economic situation, the whole school situation, the lives of our children, the possibility for them to have access to a rigorous intellectual training, solid, desirable also in the perspective of the future depends on the vaccine: vaccine yes or vaccine no. So, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of the vaccine we want ideas that are few, clear, well distinct and, above all, translated into practical operation. The DPCM tells us nothing about this: it keeps moving the chessboard of the division of spaces, but it does not guarantee that the vaccines really come to people at the appropriate times, in the appropriate doses and with the appropriate deadline. That is also why I believe that we continue to maintain a shred of perplexity with regard to this Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u21	She is registered to speak Senator Pavanelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, today we are considering the conversion of the last decree-law of the previous Government, chaired by Giuseppe Conte. The six articles of the measure contain important provisions necessary to address the national health emergency due to the spread of the coronavirus. The decree-law in question became necessary due to the development of data on the health situation due to the pandemic at the beginning of January of this year, and in particular to the numbers referring to the positive subjects to the buffer, to the RT index of contagion, to the pressure on the health structures (especially to the intensive and sub-intensive care departments). It is absolutely necessary - as provided for in the decree-law under consideration - to continue with the measures and measures adopted so far, which have proved effective, thus avoiding the need for a new national lockdown - as has happened in other European countries - starting from the extension of the state of national emergency until 30 April 2021; prodromic measure to any other for the management of the pandemic. The growing number of variants and the rate of contagion, which remains alarming to this day, are worrying. The numbers recorded in the first half of January had alarmed the experts of the CTS, especially in projection of the following weeks, which indicated a high probability of increasing the infection for what could have been the so-called third wave. Again on the subject, I would like to remind you that the previous Government has been repeatedly recognised and brought up, for example, with regard to the management of the emergency due to the Covid-19 by important international organizations, starting with the WHO and prestigious foreign newspapers such as the New York Times and the Financial Times. From the European Union, thanks to the great diplomatic action of Giuseppe Conte, to which this merit must undoubtedly be acknowledged, new financing instruments have been introduced, among which the most important is certainly the recovery plan, which provides for EUR 750 billion for the European restart. Italy will have 209 billion, which is the highest share allocated to a single country of the European Union. During 2020 the previous Government has taken numerous measures to counter the very heavy negative effects on public health and economic activities of the Country, following the necessary containment measures for the spread of the contagion, putting in the field altogether more than 108 billion euros in terms of net debt, found through four successive fiscal deviations. Added to this is 40 billion provided for in the budget law 2021. On the subject I would also like to point out that, following the arrival of the second wave of pandemics in the last quarter of 2020, which has made necessary new measures for the containment of contagion through the restriction of economic activities at regional and municipal level, the Conte Government has launched - in a little more than a month - four decree-laws for a total of 18 billion euros in terms of net debt, of which eight financed with further budgetary deviation, with a set of rapid measures, as automatic as possible - including lost funds contributions, suspension and reduction of taxes, contributions, payments and new weeks of Cassa Integrazione - destined to the categories most affected by the new restrictions. A fifth decree-restoration law was also foreseen by the end of January 2021, financed through a new budgetary deviation, approved by the Parliament, of 32 billion euros, but it was not possible to issue it due to the crisis of Government begun with the resignation of the Italian Ministers Viva announced by Matteo Renzi. A fifth decree-restoration law would already have had to be approved and operational for a long time, because in the last month there have been innumerable passages of Regions and Municipals to higher gravity scenarios, up to the red color, without that, in the face of new restrictions and closures of economic activities, had been readily made available the consequent and necessary ristors. I considered to remember the enormous work done by the previous Government to better explain the reasons that led to the enactment of the decree-law whose conversion is currently under discussion, that is, a further and important piece necessary to counter the spread of the Covid-19, waiting that vaccinations, begun immediately after the approval of the first vaccine by AIFA, starting from 22 December 2020, can arrive in the months to come and be administered to tens of millions of citizens. In Article 3 of the measure, the national information platform is introduced to facilitate, on the basis of the relevant requirements, the national distribution of vaccination doses, devices and other supporting materials for administration and tracing. The Regions and the Autonomous Provinces are entrusted with the different stages of vaccination for the prevention of infection from Covid-19, including the active offer to the categories of assisted persons identified on the basis of criteria indicated by the strategic plan of vaccines for the prevention of infection from Covid, adopted by decree of the Minister of Health on 2 January 2021. Therefore, in the mores of the decree-law in conversion, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces are called to carry out an important action at the territorial level, in compliance with the functions assigned to them by the Constitution, in shortening the times to overcome this pandemic and return as soon as possible to those that were the conditions of social and economic life before the arrival of Coronavirus. That is why the delays of some regions, such as Calabria, Liguria, Sardinia and Umbria in the administration of vaccines, are of great concern. Unfortunately, analyzing the official data of 28 February last, I could not help but note with regret that my Region, Umbria, appears at the penultimate place among the Regions in the number of vaccinations carried out every 100,000 inhabitants and the third last place as a percentage ratio between doses of vaccine delivered and doses administered, equal to 61 percent. I have also been told that Umbria is the only region that does not administer the vaccine on Sunday, although there is still 44 percent of doses already delivered and ready to be administered. Therefore, I would also like to send an exhortation that in my region - which until a few days ago was red - vaccination activities should be increased and speeded up as soon as possible in the interests of all citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u23	Senator Riccardi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u24	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before going into the issues of the decree-law in question, precisely in view of the direct importance of the measure in question, I think it is necessary to wish Dr Fabrizio Curcio and General Francesco Paolo Figiuolo well for the important tasks that have been assigned to them in these days. [[Applause]] A difficult job awaits them, but we are sure they will do their best; work for which they will have full cooperation on our part. The emergency that we are facing does not hint to diminish its impetus, but today, to face it, finds an Executive in my opinion more ready; an Executive that does not let itself be overwhelmed by fear, but works with a constructive spirit, does not defend itself but counterattacks; an Executive that, with one hand, is committed to stopping the pandemic, but, with the other, is at the same time protruding to trace the way of restart. The measure under consideration today is the legacy of the old Government and, like other measures of the previous Executive, shows the same problem, repeatedly raised by our Parliamentary Group: solutions taken late in trying to chase events; an opposite vision to ours, which cannot be effective if we want to protect our fellow citizens and, at the same time, relaunch our country. Just to bear witness to the considerations just expressed, our amending proposals to the text were aimed at bringing, from our point of view, improvements capable of giving the measure a certainly greater scope, with an impact capable of guaranteeing benefits, both immediate and future. This aspect is highlighted predominantly in Article 3 of the text under consideration: the discipline of information systems functional to the implementation of the strategic plan of vaccines for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infections. It is now clear to everyone that, if we want to overcome and defeat this pandemic; if we want to operate important reopenings and lay ever more solid and tangible bases for restarting, this passes - first of all - from a campaign of serious vaccinations, important and very different from what has been set up and carried on until today and that it still sees us busy collecting data at a time when, instead, we should have found ourselves vaccinating. Our suggestion, aimed at rationalising the time and costs as much as possible and achieving immediate results, was to use an existing structure such as the National Vaccine Registry at the Ministry of Health, to upgrade and adapt its technological application. In our opinion, this would allow to give really full, rapid and transparent implementation to the extraordinary plan of vaccines for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infections and would allow a structure, already ready and implemented as necessary, to better meet, before and at lower costs, all those needs of support, connection and communication that Article 3 of the measure under consideration provides for in the framework of the institution national information platform. I hope that this platform will operate smoothly and effectively and not only lead to the verification of the doses and materials necessary to carry out the vaccination operations, but can also be effectively used to simplify the bureaucratic part, which slows the vaccination operations. In particular, I hope that, at the time of online booking, it will be possible to complete already the informed consent and the medical history form, which are currently completed on paper forms when presenting for vaccination, with consequent slowing down of operations. It is clear to all that the reality that we live must suggest that we prepare and structure our institutions so that no future criticalities can find us vulnerable and unprepared as happened to the pandemic that we are facing. A gear change is required. The first steps were taken in the direction outlined by President Draghi in his speech to the Chambers, with the replacement carried out at the top of the Civil Protection and the emergency police structure. But we cannot stop here: we must analyze the mistakes made previously and understand what could be done better, in order to be able to re-emerge as quickly as possible from the emerging state. It is precisely in this direction that I hope that the next decisions on this matter will be taken, because if we want to restart the economy, reopen activities, allow students to attend lessons no longer at a distance, but live, we must prevent possible pandemic developments and play in advance. In this regard, I can think of the salivary detection test. These days the news is that researchers from the laboratory LABION of the IRCSS-Fondazione Don Gnocchi, in collaboration with the laboratory MIND, led by Professor Enza Messina, of the Department of computer systems and communication of the University of Milan Bicocca, have conducted a research that has led to the development of a diagnostic examination to detect the presence of Covid-19 in the saliva of patients: a rapid, safe, non-invasive examination, which, thanks to an innovative technique in the clinical field, is able to give a highly sensitive and specific result within a few minutes and to reveal also the severity of respiratory pathology occurred and the time spent from the infection. The ability to carry out effective tests in a short time would make it easy to carry out a significant number of examinations and have data on the daily epidemiological evolution, with the consequent ability to adopt containment strategies in a timely and without delay. Moreover, we would have some implementations of the ability to track and detect initial possible outbreaks, within which - unfortunately - to date we have had problems with the consequent recrudescences to all of us known. Greater traceability efficiency would also allow us to constantly monitor the spread of variants and identify new forms more quickly, with the consequent possibility to adopt in advance the best preventive care strategies. In this regard, I appreciated that the new Government has also readily activated itself to identify on our territory the companies that are immediately able to produce vaccines already on the market or that, in the short term, are able to equip themselves for production. I personally hope that, while respecting the commitments already made at European level for the distribution of vaccines, in the context of preventive strategies, we can also explore ways similar to those undertaken by Austria and Denmark for the development of second generation vaccines capable of resisting the variants of Covid-19. Mr President, I am about to conclude by making my own a sentence by Martin Luther King, with the hope that he will help us all to find the boldness necessary to emerge from the difficulty that has overwhelmed us: "One day fear knocked on the door. The courage went to open and found no one. For the good of Italy and its citizens, courage is needed to face the present and vision to write the future. The Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group is brave, bold and proud to play their part. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u25	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to point out that I find all the instrumental criticisms that are being made to the instruments of the DPCM and the so-called Covid decrees that follow one another unnecessary, because the unfortunate past year has not put us in a position to assess in a serene way the things to do, with the result that any decision has certainly penalized some sectors or points of view. There is, however, an area on which I have been paying my attention for more than a year with some suffering and it is that of the school. The school did not enter sufficiently immediately, but not even later, in the parliamentary debate for its very particular needs and for the investment that we should have made, which is not reduced to the number of masks or benches, but also requires attention of a socio-psychological type. I note that in the DCCM which will enter into force on 6 March the line of greater centralization of the decisions that had been requested has not been pursued, despite the verification of extremely serious spatial inequality data that have also come to light in the report of Save the Children. Of course, it is said that the criteria to be followed by governors in order to make decisions on possible closures and for distance teaching in high-risk areas will have to be rigid. However, ultimately, the governors - and it also seems to the mayors - are left in the hands of the local authorities. I have heard that school leaders will also have some freedom of choice, but this must not be because the right to education is enshrined in the Constitution and must be guaranteed in a uniform manner throughout the national territory. But that wasn't it. Clearly, we are all aware - it is also superfluous to repeat this - that health security is the first place, but there is no doubt that there are clear contradictions. I remember, for example, that the school was the first to be closed. In 2020 the schools were closed three months earlier and the school days lost were billions. However, we also have a disparity in the choices that have been made and, although it is clear to everyone that in the North the situation of the pandemic has hit harder, in those territories we have a more secure, certain and constant school attendance; in fact, if we count in Milan one hundred and twelve days of school, in Bari instead only forty-eight, in Reggio Calabria thirty-five and in Naples forty-two. The risk of school dispersal for about 34,000 students is very high. We left in 2009 with a national school dispersal of 20%, which we recovered in 2018, reaching 14%. However, we know very well that we do not have a fair distribution of these data on the national territory and that the South is highly damaged by this, also because DAD is not possible everywhere, as it is penalized by the lack of connection to the network in many parts of the national territory and by the fact that, many families do not have the possibility to support the subscriptions. It must also be taken into account that much work is being done at home. We must take care of ourselves and invest in this. However, I read that in the so-called fifth decree-restoration laws, which will now be called support, with an echo at school, at least 4.5 billion euros are required for ski slopes and only 800 million will be invested in local transport, although we know that it is because of the lack of local public transport that schools cannot ensure health security. So deciding what to invest is crucial to know what kind of future we want to have. I therefore hope that the Government, which I did not trust, will be able to surprise me in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measures contained in the decree-law that we are going to adopt today bring further measures on the containment and prevention of the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19. The ratio that drives the measures and contents once again always stems from the need to stem as much as possible the spread of the virus and the rise of the index of contagions. The clear and determined message transmitted, which must reach the citizens, involving them actively in a convinced and participatory adherence to the measures adopted, is always to emphasize the fundamental importance of the correct behaviour to be held by all, the necessity of sacrifices and limitations, the priority to preserve in all possible ways the individual health and the community, considering it inalienable, regardless of the complex problems and the profound repercussions that this will bring on the social balances and economic and commercial activities. It should be borne in mind that the greatest difficulty, as in all things, is to achieve the right balance between health prevention and health protection, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the need to maintain and resume activities and structures that are in great economic suffering and the decision to reopen museums, theatres, cinemas and schools themselves, which are unevenly opened or closed throughout the national territory, by virtue of the measures implemented by the governors. All these latter structures represent not only points of social aggregation, but spaces in which important moments of the global cultural growth of a community take place. This will, of course, have to be achieved in accordance with the rules of safety and social distancing. The rapid spread of the variants of the virus throughout the national territory must not and cannot be underestimated by anyone at all. The different variants, as has already been shown, have a greater and higher contagiousity and diffusion capacity, involving rapidly and progressively, in particular, the most susceptible people in our community. It is not with fear and phobias or, on the contrary, with the careless ostentation of security, nor with useless words, that we do the good of all, but with concrete facts and responsible behavior, also stigmatizing unacceptable attitudes and forcefully denouncing all the excesses and abuses that unresponsible citizens carry out, careless of the many sacrifices, not only economic, and the innumerable deprivations, even affective, that the vast majority of the community, in a responsible manner, carries out every day and constantly. The main road to combat the pandemic, capable of finally leading us to see the light at the end of the tunnel, has already been traced by the previous government, although among the many difficulties and some criticalities related to the slowness of the bureaucratic machine, to a far-reaching organizational structure and to the interventions decided, often in countertrend, and implemented by the different regional governors, sometimes not in harmony with the government directives, what this, moreover, that obviously is allowed by Title V of our Constitution. It will be essential to improve coordination with regional and territorial structures: only greater harmonisation and better linking of all the bodies involved in decision-making will make it possible to achieve more concrete results, faster and more effective, in the fight against coronavirus, which will prevent the efforts and sacrifices of many. So far we have had to chase the virus; now, thanks to the powerful weapon of the vaccine, that science and research, with great effort, commitment and skills, have managed to achieve, by making it available to the international community, we have managed to achieve a firm and effective point, finally able to reverse the roles and to counter the impact and violence of the virus on the state of health of all of us, especially of the most fragile and weak people. It is now necessary to do quickly and well, to continue and implement the vaccination campaign decisively, to speed up the distribution of vaccination doses evenly throughout the national territory, rationalising the organizational structure and the use of healthcare professionals, thus allowing to reach ever wider groups of the population, in compliance with the priorities and needs established. This is the largest and most demanding health prevention campaign ever implemented, not only in our country, but in the world. Faster, more massive and more enclosing will be mass immunization, less chance will be given to the virus to mutate and to make its effects felt. While more and more people are going to vaccinate, thus achieving percentages of vaccinees that guarantee the immunity of flocks, it is essential for the time being to reduce the circulation and spread of the virus as much as possible. In order to achieve this, as we know, everyone must join and participate in the measures envisaged, in the recommendations of personal protection and, unfortunately, also in temporary closures or in a contingent use of spaces, structures and activities that can facilitate, in an involuntary but scientifically proven way, assemblies or behaviours that promote the circulation of the virus and the possibility of infection. The memory of the deep pain that struck all of us, marking in an indelible way thousands of families in the most intimate feelings for the loss of their loved ones, and the life, the physical and the soul of the many Italian citizens who have suffered directly the virus must be a constant warning not to lower their guard and to go on, despite the difficulties, sacrifices and sacrifices, with so much soul and spirit of cohesion. In all this, politics must make the right choices, with promptness and foresight, as well as targeted measures, both in the health, social, economic and environmental fields, in order to finally be able to share and look more optimistically to the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u30	Mr President, I will be very quick, because I just want to say two things: the first is that there are many red areas in our country and there is also fear for entire regions. In mine, Piedmont, there are 22 municipalities in the red zone, including one 70 meters from my home, but the question is not whether it is close or far away. Since I have received this warning from mayors who are extremely concerned about having to manage a situation of great discomfort for the population, not to mention, of course, those who are sick, I ask the Government informally, to take into account the areas declared red, with all the limitations they have, to privilege them and allow them some form of priority and priority in the vaccination campaign. This is a request that really comes from the territory and from the mayors who manage, with great difficulty, difficult situations. The second thing I want to say is this: we are examining a decree-law issued by the previous Government, with some differences in the substance; on 22 February last the current Government Draghi issued another decree-law in the matter of Covid-19 and I wonder why it did not continue with the instrument of the decree-law, instead of going back to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. The decree-law has the big advantage of being foreseen by the Constitution and there are a preventive scrutiny of the President of the Republic and an immediate control of Parliament, with the possibility of intervention: all these things are not in the DPCM. That is why I am speaking here and not with regard to a DPCM, for which there is no provision for Parliament's intervention. I wonder why it has not continued on the path that the Count Government had already used in part and that the Draghi Government used on February 22 last. Now we're back to the other instrument. I wonder why and I hope that we will return to using our own instruments, which are provided for in the Constitution, as we have asked so many times in various acts tabled by us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u31	Senator Pirovano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to speak today, this week which is a new beginning, because finally our government team is full. I am of course doing my best to the colleagues of the League who have joined the Undersecretary team, but also to all the others, because if we really want to be a Government of national unity we must learn, after a difficult period of clashes, even very bright, to work well together and with mutual respect. The work of the first Commission was an interesting test, because we found ourselves for the first time - for which I thank the Undersecretary Malpezzi, who followed with patience, because it was not easy - to follow a measure made by the previous Government, together with the related amendments, arranged in a rush and then revised with the new Subsecretaries and the new Ministers. It was a test bench, and I'd say it went well. Although the number of amendments was not so copious, we managed and arrived in time. Of course it is not a measure made with us and we have tried to do everything we can to make our contribution. Something has been transposed; something else has been turned into agendas, which have been approved in the Commission. So there has been a new beginning, with - I hope - good wishes. We have also had news these days of a change of team with the new head of the Civil Protection department Fabrizio Curcio and the super commissioner to the emergency Covid, General Son. We breathe new air, with respectable people, who have already demonstrated in their industry that they know how to work well, so we hope that even for the more technical part of the pandemic management there will be a new course. It's been a year. As you know, I am from Bergamo and unfortunately I do not need to wait until March 18 to commemorate the victims of the Covid pandemic, because we will never forget what happened. The thing that in this period with this new wave is increasingly worrying me, our territories, our colleagues mayors and our population is that people are really very tired, starting with those who have serious economic problems, who feel abandoned because of malfunctions that - I am sure - are not only due to bad will, but precisely to the system of granting aid. She is tired, because she does not feel taken into consideration, as it has happened for certain categories that have been totally forgotten. I am thinking of the world of sport and entertainment, because there are sectors that do not fall into certain cases and have not taken a single euro, so they are surviving. People are tired, because, even if at the beginning there was a scenario that we did not understand and did not know, there was hope that it would end quickly, but after a year of course everyone is more demoralized. I think people need the good example that we should set, because we're not just here to make laws. The people need to trust us, because sometimes the recurring and general phrase throughout the constitutional arc is: put restrictive measures, one government passes and another comes, but you have the fixed salary - and also quite important - so what do you care if we are at home and have no food? Unfortunately the message passes that putting health first of all, without forgetting the economy, is a lightness, because we anyway take the salary, like other categories, including civil servants. We must make it clear that this message is not true, in the sense that nobody makes the decisions lightly and as mayor I know, having handled the most critical phase of the emergency last year. We have to explain to people the goodness of decisions and, sometimes, the way they communicate. It seems to me that Prime Minister Draghi has also started a new method, perhaps less protagonist, but more concrete and faster. We need clarity and timing, to explain exactly the rules, so that there is no longer any difficulty in applying the rules. We also need more control over the territory during this period, because, as Mr Malan said, the mayors are very concerned and need support and help. Let me give you just one example: we are waiting for the implementing decree to give contributions for the recruitment of fixed-term staff within the municipalities to manage the superbonus. It doesn't seem to have anything to do with the pandemic, but it actually has something to do with it, because the technical offices are overworked and the technical office usually also follows the municipal operating center (COC) of civil protection. Therefore, the worse the emergency, the more the technical office has to deal with health issues and less time to worry about all the rest of the work. We need rapid and concrete aid for our activities and also for our families. It seems to me that the mechanism that passes from the ristori to the support will be different and will no longer be calculated according to the code Ateco and not even according to the loss of turnover, but first considering the living expenses of an activity. It is true, in fact, that it is given a support of 1,000 euros, but if one has 2,000 to pay between rent, utilities or other expenses, the contribution has already disappeared. The aid must therefore be given in the right way, which is not only given by the quantity but also by the mode, and of course it is the speed that makes the difference [[Applause]] Then there is the important issue of vaccines. In Lombardy we are already giving an eye to the areas most affected: starting from the municipalities of Bresciano, we have expanded to the buffer belt of those of Bergamasco and today start the accessions for the vaccination campaign in schools; therefore, thanks also to the Lombardy Region, priority is being given to the areas most affected, just to stem this contagion that is increasing considerably, with a worrying speed especially because of the new variations. With the amendments to the measure that we then turned into agendas, we asked for a facility, for example, to the mountain municipalities, to allow travel with a larger radius (50 kilometers instead of 30 kilometers), to give the people who live in these territories, which is much more isolated, the possibility of going where they need (for matters of necessity, for the family, for shopping and so on). Always with a view, on the one hand, to organize the work of the municipalities and, on the other hand, not to create problems for the citizens, we asked for a method to be found - and I know that it was also discussed with the government, but this was not the time to settle the issue - for the problem of extensions, because the measure under consideration is mentioned (including that of residence permits). However, I am not just referring to what is present in this measure, but also to the extension of identity cards, licences, passports and arms ports, because we continue to extend, but then we will arrive at a point where everything will expire exactly on the same day and we will have to figure out how to do it, because people will have to file kilometers to get the documents. It is therefore necessary to begin to think of a delay, perhaps taking inspiration from the documents that have expired before, because these extensions go on for more than a year, and start to escape, because our municipalities are not still, it is not that they have no longer made identity cards; moreover they told us from the Department of Public Security that however 700,000 residence permits have been renewed out of 1.4 million, because you have the right to ask it; However, we risk finding ourselves at a point where everything will blow up, because there will really be endless waiting lists. We have a thought for families who at this time would have the difficulty of having children at home, if schools were to be closed again: I think of red areas, but also of the new criteria adopted on the percentage of infections also in the orange and yellow ones. So we need to quickly find a solution to this problem, whether with financial help or with babysitting bonuses or whatever, but let's make sure that people and our families don't feel abandoned. I would therefore like to express my thanks for the cooperation that has taken place these days; I am happy to be able to finally make an effective contribution within this new Government. In this serious phase, as Bergamo and as mayor, I can only send a hug to my people and my colleagues, particularly Bergamo, because we are very concerned about this new period that awaits us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u33	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u34	Mr President, with Decree-Law No 2 of 2021 laying down further urgent provisions on the containment and prevention of the health emergency from coronavirus and the holding of elections for the year 2021, the Council of Ministers declared for a further three months, and therefore until 30 April 2021, the state of national emergency, extending the applicability of restrictive measures already provided for in Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, as well as further measures concerning movements, meetings and the conduct of economic activities referred to in Decree-Law No 33 of 2020. The second Conte Government is over and a new Government, that of the President, has begun, because Professor Draghi was chosen directly by President Mattarella and not by the political forces in Parliament. However, the pandemic remains and thus its very serious socio-economic consequences. This is why the political agenda continues to be dictated by the virus and the restrictive measures of the freedom of movement of citizens continue to be decisive in order to limit the spread of contagion. Well, the measure that today we are going to approve discipline the prohibition of movement between Regions until 15 February, measure in fact already further extended until 27 on the entire national territory by the Council of Ministers of 22 February 2021, always saved, of course, the movements for proven needs of work, health and necessity, as well as the prohibition of movement within the same Region and Province, with the limits and conditions provided for for travel to private homes between 5 o'clock and 22 o'clock in yellow zone and within the same Municipality in orange area, within the limit of two persons, in addition to children under fourteen years and disabled. It is therefore a decree that adopts a mapping criterion for Italy in different colored areas according to the RT coefficient, therefore a flexible criterion, as it provides for a gradual limitation depending on whether the region concerned is precisely yellow, orange, red or white (as Sardinia is today), and that makes overcome the heavier and more generalized total lockdown, which we have known in the first months of the pandemic and which, if continued further, would have more seriously affected the socio-economic situation of the country. We see that even today the current data of the contagion are not reassuring, because in 12 regions they do not go down, but they increase the positive cases, in three the employment of the beds in the hospital exceeds the threshold of 40% in the medical area and in five that of the 30% of the intensive therapies. The RT index, in fact, is just below the 1 and the most worrying thing about the virologi is the diffusion of the English variant at the Covid-19, unfortunately present in 14 regions of the 16 taken into consideration. With regard to vaccination, the decree-law that we intend to approve today defines some profiles of the vaccination activity already covered by a specific national strategic plan, providing for the establishment of a national information platform prepared and managed by the extraordinary commissioner. It is intended to facilitate the distribution of vaccination doses in the national territory and to carry out the booking and registration of vaccinations, where the vaccination information system of the regions is not adequate. In many regions, however, the vaccination campaign is slow, because there is no adequate regional vaccination strategic plan. There's bureaucracy, there's no organized vaccination centers. I am thinking in particular of my Region, Sardinia, which results in the third-last place in Italy for percentage of the population that has completed the cycle: about 1.59 percent, where the national average is of 2.18. The Regional Council has sponsored a web CUP platform for bookings never activated, the vaccination plan for older people over 80 is still stationary, except for a small circle in the South of Sardinia. The vaccination of teachers is also slow and will unfortunately end at the end of school year. The same happens for fragile categories: I think of the 500 blind people who should have been vaccinated in February and who were never called; I think of migrants; not to mention the Forces of Order, one of the categories most exposed to contagion, who also complain about the effectiveness of the drug. It is news only a few days ago the involvement of the basic doctors in this vaccination campaign, thanks to a Government-Region agreement, with the consequence of giving a little more breath to the other health sectors. They also wait for the doses to leave, however, where there are doctors of general medicine. From this point of view too, I cannot fail to point out the serious absence of family doctors throughout the territory of Nuorese, denounced by our mayors. I am thinking in particular of the order issued a few weeks ago by the mayor of Oniferi, in the province of Nuoro, which at the same time prohibited citizens from becoming ill, especially Covid. Therefore, the Government should act as soon as possible on the Regions, in order to monitor and, where appropriate, intervene, where the regional administrations arrange. The justice sector also needs to be re-established fully and safely. Covid's year has been added to the consolidated backlog in many years; we cannot afford to further harm the rights and functions provided for in the Constitution. That is why lawyers, and not just magistrates, must also be included among the categories to be vaccinated as a priority in all regions, which has not yet happened. They are the ones, together with the toned and honorary judges, the category that has paid the most in the courts the consequences of the pandemic in economic terms and of difficulties in carrying out the work. Even in prisons, we need to speed up, in order to protect both prisoners and prison police officers. Over the last few months, we have been faced with enormous difficulties in ensuring social distance in prisons and courts, and we have seen how important it is to invest in prison and penitentiary housing, in order to ensure an efficient justice system for all citizens. Returning to the measure that we are called to vote today, the sanctioning system is punctual and articulated; it aims to strengthen the observance of the measures in the matter of containment and prevention of the health emergency, in order to avoid what has already happened in other countries. Let us think of the United States, where the number of deaths is greater than the total number of victims of the First and Second World Wars and the war in Vietnam. Our legislative intervention provides that, unless the fact constitutes a crime, failure to comply with the containment measures that are now known to all is punished in accordance with the provisions contained in Decree-Law no. 19 and 33 of 2020, i.e. the administrative penalty for the payment of a sum ranging from 400 to 1,000 euros. On the other hand, the criminal penalty provided for in Article 650 of the Criminal Code no longer applies. If the non-compliance occurs through the use of a vehicle, the aforementioned penalty shall be increased to a third party, while in the event that the infringement is committed in the course of a productive or commercial undertaking activity, the additional administrative penalty shall also be applied for the closure of the activity from five to thirty days. In the specific case of non-compliance with quarantine, the penalty is that of arrest for up to 18 months. I shall conclude, Mr President. This sanctioning system does not exempt us from the call to a sense of personal responsibility, through the use of masks and social distancing, which never before, in the dramatic emergency caused by the pandemic, translates into a sense of collective responsibility. The path of unity and responsibility remains the only one possible in the war against this invisible enemy, in order to guarantee everyone, especially our children, a normal life and a future free from impediments and restrictions. I thank the whole House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u35	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on some of the main aspects of the decree-law that we are discussing today about conversion. I am thinking above all of the lack of data, the risk classification system and the information platform. A recent sentence of the TAR of Lazio said that the government can no longer close schools without specific data. There seems to be insufficient escapism to link the closure of schools to the general rate of contagion. We should therefore know how many cases there are in institutions and, above all, the double cases in the individual classes, in order to understand the transmissibility. It is therefore inevitable that Italy has its own national survey, with a multicentre character, on the social determinants of SARS-CoV-2 infection, through the creation of a network of collaboration between the Higher Institute of Health, Regions and other institutions of the world, research, such as universities. As recently pointed out by Professors Alleva and Zuliani, the data reported so far are not useful to understand how the Covid-19 is evolving; for example, there is a discrepancy between the results given by the rapid tests and those given by the other diagnostic tests. In this uncertainty, the data on the overall rate of positiveness is not reliable; the same applies to hospitalizations and mortality data, which, according to the two statisticians, is underestimated. As for the world of education, greater transparency and efficiency in data collection and communication are all the more necessary, as noted by an association of 300 university professors, who asked for access to data to understand how the colors of the regions are established. So far this request has not been answered, with the result that this controversy has also ended up in the hands of the TAR. It is not possible, almost twelve months after the outbreak, that the main public health measures are still largely based on the precautionary principle. Italy has remained one of the few developed nations that, moving away from the recommendations of the World Health Organization, still uses the criterion of diagnostic testing through the negative buffer for the healing declaration, provided for by the circular of the Ministry of Health of 12 October 2020. The World Health Organization and several nations, such as the United States, France and Belgium, had already expressed their views on this matter, outlining in several technical documents how this criterion is to be considered obsolete and harmful, leading to a phenomenon of work overload also for the National Health Service. This figure alone leads to an important adulteration of our national and, consequently, regional epidemiological figures. In addition, the risk classification system is mainly based on the so-called RT index, which, on the basis of the latest evidence, appears to be a not too early index in predicting the epidemic risk (e.g. an average one week delay compared to the percentage changes). Therefore, the parameters used to date make the nation run the risk of following the epidemic curve in outlining the actions of public health rather than preventing the epidemic. The draft law also provides for the creation of a technological infrastructure to support the actions of the Commissioner for the emergency, for the distribution to the regions of vaccines and garrisons functional to the vaccination process, which is interoperable with the National Vaccine Registry. This platform should also have a subsidiary function in relation to regional vaccine anagraphs, supporting actions such as booking, registration of vaccinations carried out and certification of vaccination. On this last point it is inevitable to intervene by outlining the minimum requirements of the certification of successful vaccination, also in relation to the possible uses that this certification may have in the near future. The aggregate information on the platform is accessible to the Ministry of Health, the Italian Agency of Medicine and the Higher Institute of Health. However, the breakdown and name data are only made available to the Higher Institute of Health for the evaluation activities. This forecast should be updated, as some illustrious teachers have reported in the hearings, giving the visibility of the data broken down also to the Italian Agency of the drug, in order to allow it to better exercise the pharmacovigilance activities. With regard to the provisions of the draft law, I must first point out that the original forecasts of the Strategic Plan for vaccinations in the field of the deadline of the target populations of the vaccine intervention will have to be revised urgently in relation to the actual availability of vaccinations, as well as to the limitations provided for in the authorization for the placing on the market of the vaccine produced by the company AstraZeneca. It is inevitable that the availability of doses of a vaccine suitable for immunization of subjects under fifty-five years of age will lead to the opportunity to anticipate vaccinations of categories of young adult workers. In the absence of direct protection of the elderly and fragile subjects, the route of immunization of large groups of population at greater risk of contracting the infection should be crossed in order to achieve, at least partially, the objective of affecting the circulation of the virus, going to modify, through this objective, the figure of morbidity and mortality. In this context, schools and universities should be privileged, as the main damage that the pandemic is creating to our country is precisely that relating to the formation of the new generations. The effects of this will affect more than others the possibility of development of Italy in the next thirty to forty years. It is not appropriate to reiterate that the pandemic continues to have a significant impact on the real life of people, families and economic operators. In my region, which has just been declared a red zone, the question has shifted from the technical-scientific plan to the political one, with a lawsuit between the President of the Region and the individual administrations. This does not seem to be useful to the comparison between the different actors in the field called to manage, each for its part, the emergency health. The declaration of Basilicata as a red zone was not a choice of the Region, but exclusive of the Ministry for Health, and the decision is based on parameters that, although objective, do not take into account the specificity of the territories. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking because first of all I would like to renew a request to the Government that has been made on several occasions: the integration of the Technical and Scientific Committee, which has accompanied us in this year of epidemic, with different professionalism: experts in the analysis of physical data, mathematicians and microbiologists. We feel the need, at this time, to anticipate the virus and no longer pursue it, and to achieve this goal we need the contamination of different skills. In Italy we have many and excellent ones, so let's let them work for us. I would add that we have submitted to this measure of conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 2, to which Decree-Law No. 15 has been added, a sub-amendment to the constitution of an observatory of the epidemiological data, in order to an everyday analysis of the evolution of the contagions from Covid-19, in order to offer opinions on the measures to be taken regarding limited closures, such as in Perugia and South Tyrol, and as is happening in these hours for the province of Bologna. I hope that this proposal, rejected in this measure, will be welcomed in a later one, because we believe it to be fundamental. It is right to have encoded the Regions with the colors that indicate the risk rate of contagion, but it is essential the provision of simple data, at provincial and municipal level, to decide quickly local lockdowns. Many regions are heading in this direction in these hours, but a system of collection, monitoring and impact of measures as homogeneous as possible at national level is essential and is not based on information dated eight, ten days. The exponential rate of growth of the infected by Covid, especially in some areas, forces us to change pace in making sudden and precise decisions. I imagine targeted interventions on individual territories to raise and heal the whole of our nation, once again relying on the sense of responsibility of our fellow citizens, often recalled in recent months. It is a positive fact that in the new DCCM signed by President Draghi there is the constitution of a technical table of comparison for the revision or the update of twenty-one parameters for the evaluation of the epidemiological risk. Here too we hope to simplify the parameters. In the measure under consideration there are important rules on information systems functional to the feeding of the strategic plan of vaccines and the vaccination registry, and the Regions must cooperate to provide this data. I think there's a kind of curse of databases in Italy. Sharing data is a public good and is the highest measure of a country's degree of democracy. We must give a strong accelerated and straightened to the vaccination plan and for this we express great satisfaction for the appointment of Dr. Fabrizio Curcio as Head of Civil Protection and General Paolo Figniuolo as new Commissioner for the emergency Covid, to whom we wish good work. Thinking that we can use the human and instrumental resources of Civil Protection and the logistics organization of the Army calms down. The Health and Health Commission that I am honored to chair yesterday decided to proceed with an assigned deal on vaccines in order to arrive at an act of direction, addressing in particular the ethical implications, research, choice of doses and availability of production in relation to European choices. Meanwhile, a letter of initiative from the parliamentary intergroup on rare diseases addressed to Minister Hope, at the first signature of Senator Binetti and Mr Noja, once again recalled that priority should be given to all rare diseases and serious diseases and to people with disabilities and their caregivers. Such profound differences between regions can no longer be tolerated; the right to care, especially of the most fragile, is a constitutionally guaranteed right. We need to be transparent between us at this stage and with the citizens. We are in a delicate moment of the epidemic, with the variants that prevail, the slow vaccines, a virus not even permortized (but only for a few weeks stunned enough to be able to acquire defenses and variations), without extended vaccinations, diffuse swabs, daily statistical epidemiological updates, very little home care, for which a body that protocols its cares should (but has not been done so far). Thus we risk having to suffer the virus before controlling its coexistence; but we must move away quickly from the ford in order to avoid fighting with an arm tied behind our back, as happened in Vietnam where, due to lack of means and a strategy, the conflict was characterized by a continuous guerrilla and TV vision of the wounded marines. Leaving aside the ethical values of morality of wars, the comparison fits perfectly, in my opinion; for this reason it is necessary to call to arms the feeling of a people, sharing with the best energies of civil protection, the Armed Forces, the socio-sanitary staff, of different professionalism, of the workplace, in a context of order and simplification in lawmaking, of support for economic activities and employment and of a renewed relationship of collaboration between the State and the Regions, but with a strong central guide. As the recent decision of the Constitutional Court recalls, it is for the State to determine measures against a widespread pandemic at global level and therefore entirely entrusted to the exclusive legislative competence of the State as an international prophylaxis. With this picture, in my opinion, we will succeed, President, ladies and gentlemen; Italy was the first country in Europe to plunge into the epidemic, we use all our strength to be the model country to get out of it. Now we have all the cards in order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u38	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly an extremely dramatic moment; we must realize that we are at war against an invisible enemy. In order to beat it, we must put in place every instrument that Italy and Europe have at this stage. I applaud the government, in particular President Draghi, for what he has done recently, namely the appointment of the general of the Corps of Armed Son to a new extraordinary commissioner for the emergency Covid-19: finally we can take a path that will be made of organization, timeliness in interventions, discipline in actions. You see, ladies and gentlemen, when a problem arises, the first thing to be realized is to understand what happens, decide and act. The example we have had, an example of great vision, is that of Israeli President Netanyahu, who in a few hours started an intensive vaccination program. How did he do that? As soon as he realized the dramatic situation he was in, not only Israel, but the entire earthly orb, he was faced with the need to question the Managing Director of Pfizer. He contacted him at 2:00 in the morning with a phone call, and asked him, "How many vaccines can you deliver me? We need 20 million vaccines. We are also willing to pay them more. How much are they? Are they 15 or 20 euros? We pay 30 euros. On the same day, in the evening, President Netanyahu made a transfer, drawing on the funds of the Israeli army, and immediately paid for the vaccines, without indemnifying. The next morning, some C-130 Hercules, military transport planes, went to Pfizer's warehouses and transported the vaccines themselves to Israel, starting this vaccination work, without looking where it was done. The vaccination has been done everywhere: in clinics, gyms, schools, at what we should call basic doctors. Therefore, if we want to solve the problem, we must do so by looking at reality in the face, because that is the policy. Looking at reality in the face, we must say that the moment is dramatic. Let's look around. I want to make three observations, quickly. The first: is it possible that we only have to address one vaccine? There's Johnson & Johnson vaccine, there's Sinovac. In particular, there is Sputnik, which is a viral vector vaccine and not messenger mRNA and this is very important. They started to carry out vaccinations in San Marino, where good results are recorded. Looks like it's a vaccine that delivers 90 percent positive outcomes. It even costs less: $9.5; at least, this is the price paid by San Marino. Shall we go in that direction? The government starts dealing with EMA immediately and looks into the reality of things. President Draghi spoke of Europe's strategic autonomy. It is an essential element that would enable us, even as a Europe, to look around and be able to make these supplies. I would like to remind you that on 28 January last year I was the first to present a question where I pointed out what would happen as a result of the pandemic. Now I say this: there is another drug, on which I have submitted three questions, which is called Parvulan, is an amplifier of the body's immune defenses and can be a good molecular target therapy, because it leads to innate immunity. It is an important result; it is certainly not a vaccine, but it is an immunomodulator, which is given by subcutaneous injection. I ask the Government to take a look at it and, above all, to understand the need to accompany this drug with vaccinations. One last point, Mr President, concerns the situation of the southern borders of Europe, the Italian border and the Mediterranean border. The situation in Lampedusa is explosive. It's not about being dangerous sovereignists. The situation is completely out of control: both from the health point of view and from the safety of those areas and also from the whole of Italy. It is necessary, therefore, to proceed with operations of control of the migratory traffics. We must end this once and for all with these criminal organizations, which are a bandit on the streets of civilization, also - and above all - because of the consequences that result - the hotspots are, unfortunately, collapsing. There are too many businesses, there is no controls and we also risk having a penetration of dangerous jihadists in Italy. So, looking at the first problem in the face, we absolutely must take the situation into our own hands and give concrete answers, even with naval controls and rejections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u39	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are sorry to see today that there has been no change of pace with this new government. Being in this House today and seeing that the new government is still using the DCCM tool makes us realize that nothing has changed. Above all we regret to see many colleagues, who have always discussed the use of the DPCM in a very lively and lively way, who are silent today, allowing us to move forward in this direction, as if it were the right one to follow at this time. I recall that the DPCM is an administrative act and to say that it serves a law to affect the fundamental rights of people not only we of Brothers of Italy, but also important constitutionalists - from Cassese to Baldassarre - and the same Tribunal of Rome pronounced itself a few days ago in this regard. However, the Dragons Government has continued to move in this direction. We believe that this instrument is illegitimate, as well as unconstitutional, and we are particularly sorry for those who have filled their mouths on how important Parliament is and should have a centrality, whereas it continues to be trampled on. I would now like to go into the substance of the measure, which is the same as before. We see nothing about public transport, despite all the scientific data and experts telling us that the infection occurs mainly on them. I remember 90% of workers and students moving on regional trains. I don't think any of you have ever gone to see or have ever taken a regional train to figure out what the state of assembly is. I live in the city of Milan, where just take the subway, a tram or a bus at peak times to see how people are clogged. Yet the measure pretends that public transport keeps our citizens safe from contagion. I remind you that Brothers of Italy has made many proposals in this regard. We have proposed using the private buses used for school trips, which are now crammed into remittances because they have no work. The same applies to taxi drivers, who are in a serious situation with virtually no more work. Nevertheless, one continues to be a merchant's ear and goes on as if it were nothing. There is another fact that worries us very much. Probably you too have seen the images passed by many news reports where you see our elders in the queue in order to be able to vaccinate, assemble and attach to each other. Yet the doctors, the virologists and the Scientific Technical Committee tell us that the most important thing is the distancing, given the need to keep away from each other. What effect does the most fragile population - over 80 - see in the queue to make vaccines? Is this your way of protecting the health of those who need to be more protected? Again, we do not just talk and emphasize mistakes, but we are always proactive because, as our leader Giorgia Meloni said, we want to help. In this case too, we had made a proposal of common sense, calling for the over eighty to be vaccinated at home. However, the proposal of Brothers of Italy has been firmly rejected. I believe that if we go on this step it will be very difficult to explain to the Italians that famous light at the end of the tunnel. In fact, if we do not protect the most fragile groups, the over eighty and those who have pathologies, how do we get out of the pandemic? I understand that in this situation the easiest answers are those of closures; of course, it could be said that everything is closed. It's obvious that if we close our entire nation, the virus will probably stop running, but that's not the situation. In fact, today we are no longer in the emergency that, as the vocabulary of the Italian language says, is a sudden act, for which none of us can be prepared because it is precisely an emergency. No, gentlemen, after a year and a month we're not, and we can't talk about emergency. I am not saying that we are in a situation of normality because, as an Italian, I do not want to think that this is the state of normality in which we humans will have to learn to live together, but I think that we will all agree that this situation cannot change in the next fifteen days. So I ask you why the same categories must always be paying the highest price, because they are always the same categories that, in addition to paying the highest price, are also the most dilapidated, mocked, considered responsible for the infection of the virus. I would really like to make an appeal; I understand that in this Chamber many, practically all, are in the government except us of Brothers of Italy, but I ask you how you can continue to say certain things on television and in the newspapers and then not to be followed by the facts. Let us think, for example, of what happened yesterday in the first Commission: Brothers of Italy tabled an amendment that said that in the yellow areas, I emphasize, in absolute safety, the restaurants could remain open until 10 pm and in the orange zones until 6 pm. I have heard very important representatives of the majority, who are making it a battlehorse, say that it is not fair to close the restaurants and then let public transport be crowded. How come yesterday, when there was a chance not of words, but of concrete facts, our amendment to the Commission was rejected? In conclusion, President, I say that Italians are fed up with words, lies, this opacity and little transparency; Italians want the facts. Why is it that when there is an opportunity to make concrete interventions, the majority reject what is being advertised on television and in the newspapers? If you would like to use the DPCM tool, I would advise you to use it for a vaccination plan, then in that case, even we of Brothers of Italy, we could also agree. In fact, we continue to talk about closures, penalising those who only ask to work safely and instead cannot do so because vaccines and the vaccination plan are not there. Therefore, rather than saying so many words, ladies and gentlemen, we should do something about it. We finally welcome the change, which we had asked for a long time ago, and the driven out of Arcuri, with the arrival of a person certainly competent and capable, like General Son. However, we are asking you, really, to move on with vaccines, because if we do not do things quickly in our nation, not only will we not save lives, but we will be the taillight of the recovery, because we will lose competitiveness again. 12.20 p.m. (Garnero Santanche follows). Countries that will emerge from this pandemic first will be able to look with concrete impetus to the future. At present, by quoting last night's data, be the fourth in Europe for vaccines! You realize that, behind us, there are nations, that are not certain as great as our homeland. Then I ask you to stop saying words, to worry about buying vaccines and to make a vaccination plan, which is still missing in our nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u41	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today contains some measures on the containment and prevention of the epidemiological emergency, which still does not give up the adoption, and on the holding of the elections for 2021. A further addition to Article 1 has been made to the version of the Decree-Law of 14 January, which amended and extended until 27 March any other provisions, has updated the measures aimed at imposing restrictions and movements for the purposes of the containment and management of the epidemic and has inserted the name of the white, yellow and orange zones, which today we see being much taken into consideration, because the epidemic, as said, is unfortunately advancing in a prevailing way. So, with respect to the measure under consideration, we note - I say this to colleagues who have previously spoken much more about the DPCM, than about the decree that we are converting into law - that these are two things that go on with different passages. Today we convert the decree into law and the DPCM is already in force: I believe that these are two things to think about. The Government, among other things, both the one led by President Conte and the one led by President Draghi, through Minister Hope explained to Parliament on several occasions, the reasons why these provisions were necessary. It is before everyone's eyes the rampage, alas in a dominant way, of the English, South African and Brazilian variants, which are unfortunately attacking our population even more. In this case too, a change is taking place, which unfortunately sees the involvement not more of the generations later with the age, but also of the young people, who are becoming sick. This is another major problem that we are facing right now. The theme of the school is also emerging in a strong way. I know how much Mr Bianchi, whom I thank for his work and to whom I wish good work, cares for the opening of schools, but in the face of events we must find appropriate measures. I hope that things will improve, also thanks to the vaccination campaign, which unfortunately I see is going slow - then I will get much better on the subject - and that I hope it will soon have a greater acceleration. It is true that some changes have been made: I am thinking of the arrival of a new extraordinary Commissioner. In this regard, I would like to thank those who were there before, Dr. Arcuri, who, not knowing what was the way to follow, was faced with many problems and obstacles, not knowing how to get out of it. Obviously there is now something, the terrain has been traced and so I wish the new Commissioner Son good work. The emergency, as mentioned earlier, continues to be very insistent and therefore I believe that, as they said last night in the television broadcast of the Sanremo Festival, we still need to keep our guard up. The precautionary levels are the ones we know: the mask and the behaviors aimed at avoiding the gatherings are still important weapons that we must maintain, to defeat the pandemic. The new government, of course, has been given priority precisely to defeating the pandemic and therefore the current measures reflect this kind of attitude. Therefore, we absolutely must mitigate the risk of the pandemic, which could otherwise become uncontrolled, partly because the worsening situation in health facilities is another cry for alarm. The health facilities, at this moment, are increasingly under pressure and this is what health professionals tell us, who have never abandoned the grip for a year now, as we have also remembered on the day dedicated to them. But let us come to the most predominant part of the measure, concerning health, which is Article 3. Article 3, in line with existing European and national provisions on the protection of personal data, establishes a national information platform to facilitate, on the basis of the needs identified, the national distribution of vaccination doses, devices and other supporting materials for administration and tracing. This platform, as we have said, is managed by the Extraordinary Commissioner (who is now General Figlio), who, in coordination with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Regional Affairs and the self-government, regularly informs the Permanent Conference for Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces about the state of implementation of the strategic vaccination plan, which has already been there for some time, but is being modified. The different stages of vaccinations are therefore entrusted to the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, which use their own vaccination information systems as controllers of the treatment. However, if the vaccination information system of a Region or Autonomous Province is not adequate, at the request of the same body, the platform shall carry out, under the subsidiarity regime, as provided for, inter alia, in Article 120 of our Constitution, the operations of booking of vaccinations and recording of the administration of vaccines. This is done in a subsidiary way through a national platform that is established here. In words all right, but unfortunately it is not so in fact. I remind my colleagues that the law establishing the National Vaccine Registry is far away in time (the bill n. 119 of 2017) and that an implementing decree established it in 2018 ( decree n. 73 of 2018). But here the first problems arise and there are two very important ones: the first is what the Regions should have long had to comply with the forecast of collecting certain data on the people: the vaccinated subjects, the subjects to be vaccinated, the immunized subjects and the subjects for whom the vaccinations can be omitted or deferred; in case of established danger to the health also the non vaccination, because there are fragile subjects, like immunodepressed, that cannot be vaccinated; the doses and the times of administration and the possible side effects. All this was already planned and in 2019 funds were made available. But some regions have failed to comply with these forecasts. Therefore, once again, a reflection must be made. I know that the new Minister Gelmini (also to you I wish you good work, because really there is so much need) said, during an audition, that we must now rethink also the Regions and if it is right, in the case of the DCCM, to share with the Regions and with the territories step by step what must be done, because the territories are the first to pay the consequences. So it is perfectly right, as far as closures are concerned, to share decisions with the Regions, but the Regions must comply with national laws. I believe that the famous State-Regions conflict must be resolved more than ever now, precisely because the people and their health are the losers. The famous Article 32 of the Constitution fails. I say this because I am doing certain investigations, but you just go to the sites of the Ministry of Health or Agenas, to realize the diversification in the application of national rules. Especially with regard to vaccines, we have regions that have the vaccines ready, but do not have the vaccineers. We have regions that have the vacciners ready, but they're missing the doses. This is an issue that we must surely put to the attention of the Government. Therefore, President Draghi, together with ministers Hope and Gelmini try to solve this problem, because citizens need to be treated in a homogeneous way throughout the national territory. It is not possible that there are some protected categories that have not yet been vaccinated, while in other regions they have already vaccinated even the most fragile, disabled and those in the RSA. The other issue that I have absolutely to mention is vaccines. The top priority is to have vaccines. The doses that are due to us as Italy must arrive. The research has been carried out thanks to public funds and companies must return to the community. There is no patent that holds; the vaccine must be a common good and must be given to everyone. We have spent public money on it; companies are taking a step forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note with some concern the inability of this Parliament to take responsibility for taking over the fate of the country. On the one hand, I see no reaction to the failure that Europe is showing to the needs of this pandemic. I see no reaction to the absolute lack of information about contracts and contractual terms with pharmaceutical companies. We do not know what the price of vaccines is; we do not know what the distribution clauses and the liability clauses for the lack of supplies are. Yet I do not see on your and our part a reaction and requests for clarification on these issues, which have a clear and concrete impact on our citizens. On the other hand, I see a great confusion and known - as some of you, instead, has correctly found - that they overlap of the heterogeneous sources (some not previewed from the Constitution) that create the effect of the Manzoni cries: converted decrees-laws putting in us also parts of DPCM previously in force; decrees that follow at the speed of the light do not give the time even to the workers to understand well what is the succession of these normative sources. All this leads to great confusion for the citizens and the fact that the operators themselves, even those who should monitor compliance with these rules, do not have the clear ideas. The consequence of all this is in everyone's eyes: basically you have ideas and general lines, but each one applies them in his own way. As is often the case in Italy, those who are strict self-limit themselves, while those who are smart continue to get away with it, with consequences for the whole community. A fairly obvious case is given precisely by the decree-law that we must convert today, the first decree-law that had an important modification with a salient amendment by the Government of the best and that, however, is completely in continuity with the Government of the worst in terms of the understanding of the text. Let me give you one concrete example. It is said that until March 27 it is allowed in the yellow area in the regional area and in the orange area in municipal dress the move to a single private inhabited house. But what if it's not inhabited? The Senate dossier itself clearly states that there is a void and, that is, there is no norm under any circumstances of the possibility of moving to the second houses or the second houses. He's making it clear. It has been forgotten and refers to FAQs, i.e. answers to frequently asked questions published on the Council Presidency website. We have come to the point that knowing what we can and cannot do is not put back to the balance of the representatives of the citizens, that is, of Parliament, but to the answers published on websites. These answers, which are not known by whom they are made, take the place of the reserve of law that the Constitution would rather be in the control of personal freedoms. The result is abnormal, paradoxical; there is no discussion on fundamental issues. In fact, if it is clear that the right to health is prominent and very important, it is also clear that it must be balanced with all other interests, with personal freedoms, for example with the right to study, with the right to exercise economic activities. Therefore, this balance that we should find is actually slipping into a sort of ratification, on the one hand, on decisions taken with regard to vaccination levels, purchases and therefore the concrete repercussions, on the European level, which we do not question and on which we do not watch; on the other hand, on the government level. In this way we learn, without any particular discussion, that schools in red areas will have to be completely closed, instead in other areas will be put to the discretion of the regions the decision whether to keep them open or closed. This also deserves a debate, because it is not at all obvious that there can be decisions at regional level that penalise our children; the days of school that will be lost and that have already been lost will have a dramatic impact on the education and psyche of these generations, which already have negative limitations on sport and their sociality; taking away the teaching moment of the school in presence also, in my opinion should not be accepted in the silence of Parliament. As was said and as I said even when I voted in dissent, although I was in majority with the previous Government, we should rather enforce all those protocols, even at the cost of investing a great deal, for example, on the mobility of pupils and on all spaces and garrisons to avoid infection in classrooms. In short, so far I have represented all this to tell you that Parliament cannot uncritically ratify what this Government does, just as it should not have done before, but now it is even more dangerous because the majority has expanded and for the opposition the areas of criticism and complaint are being limited even more. The attention is therefore put back to each of you, colleagues; do not take for granted the fact that what is brought to us here is the best solution, indeed it is often not, as the decree-law in question shows, which in my opinion contains excessive limitations, on the basis of: close everything, close everything, arrives the third wave! It is too easy to solve certain issues in this way, which should be dealt with on a case-by-case basis in this House, in order to balance the balance between different interests in the best possible way. That is why I and the member of the Joint Group called "The alternative is there" will vote against the draft law under consideration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with a strong, suggestive and almost iconic phrase, the President-in-Office of the Council said that the health emergency is the economic emergency. In fact, it is true: if the country is not healthy and secure it cannot resume; however, as is evident in the management of the vaccination phase, these days we are witnessing the fact that perhaps this Parliament could and should have intervened not already when in March last year there was the emergency following the pandemic, but on the management and organization of the vaccination phase. In fact, we had all the time that was needed and available to be able to act even in legislative form, intervening on Article 32 of the Constitution. Parliament, the legislator, did not. We have not done so and today we are essentially within an administrative act that has a weak regulatory cover in the law of stability. We are discussing, basically, a vaccination plan on which we are comparing ourselves and on which the regions are operating each in their own way, leopard stain, who with one category, who with another, who is vaccinating guy instead of caio. In this situation, with regard to this matter, Parliament has been the great absentee. I am sorry that Minister Orlando is not here, but I hope that this major majority of national emergencies in the country today will understand the problem. I'll cut to the chase. The question is quite clear: we know that there are priorities, such as vaccination of over 80 years old and at the same time as vaccination of these, the vaccination plans establish that we can proceed with the administration of the AstraZeneca vaccine also to certain categories of workers up to sixty-five years old, therefore to the school, university, teaching and non-teaching staff, rightly to the police forces and to those who work in the services in confined places, therefore in prisons and other essential services. The first question is quid iuris? What are the essential services, how do we determine what they are, what reference laws do we refer to? Are services essential that are outlined in the context, for example, of the law governing strike in essential services? If so, which categories are included and which are excluded? We are witnessing a paradox whereby today, always a leopard spot, in this our Italy, in some Regions the magistrates of a district are vaccinated and not the lawyers, who also participate in the same hearings, in other Regions this does not happen, because clearly still a direct agreement has not been reached between the Region and the individual categories. Do we want to talk about what an important national daily newspaper writes today, about 1,200 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine that are locked in the refrigerator and not used? Do we want to talk about the fact that in the 70-year-old group, between the ages of seventy and seventy-nine, there are people who are not included among the most at risk and therefore have to wait, while there are 400,000 young people between the twenty and the twenty-nine years who have been vaccinated because they attend the second year of medicine? The staff in smart working, not health care, but administrative, who work within health services, have been vaccinated. [[Applause]] On these things we ask that the government put its head in it and even a little bit of order. Finally, the country has been "dearcurized." [[Applause.]] I'd say they're withered, withered primroses. [[Applause]] , but now we are waiting for spring to come and with it we hope that the vaccines will finally arrive, with the great commitment of the Government and all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u48	Mr President, the advantage of speaking in continuity with the interesting speeches already made is that I can only allow myself to recall the most important ones in my opinion. The measure under consideration (exhausted the credits of the DCCM system, return to the decree-laws as soon as possible) is an opportunity to reflect on the necessary change of course that will demonstrate the new Executive, proving to have at heart the health and well-being of the Italians as primary and supportive good. But just as fundamental is to avoid squandering resources; there is no right to health without the duty of prevention and sustainability. It has been too long since we listened to them, and we have re-marked that there is little attention to prevention. However, since prevention does not rhyme with billing, it has continued until now to foresee expenditure chapters in charge of the extraordinary commissioner not supported by benchmarks that testify to its congruence, failing a strategy of effective contrast to the spread of the virus, with a national plan of safe containment of its variants and monitoring of their interactions with the immune system and the drugs, through the appropriate contracting of all suppliers, not only of vaccines and drugs, but for all types of goods and services. While it is true that the slimming care imposed on the National Health Service since 2010 is critical, it is also true that now the risk is its opposite, without inheriting a technologically "upgraded" system, which allows to give more by spending less, specifically of the pandemic without even a structured national system of active and genomic surveillance and of governing the mutability of the virus, to guarantee mass immunization. Since we are in the middle of a crippled vaccination campaign, this time not due to lack of plan or vaccine workers, even if in the process of strengthening with family doctors, but due to the lack of vaccines, it is quite clear that, if much more stringent contracts had been made, with unavoidable delivery clauses as soon as the approval of the EMA, which provided for some form of local production in case of real or presumed problems that were in the production sites, with highly discouraging penalties, we would not be here to discuss it. If Italy had sent someone extra-competent in international contractualism to the negotiating table, we would not be here to complain about the lack of vaccines. [[Applause]] All we have to do is trust in the greater availability of the doses necessary for the ambitious vaccination plan. We are sure that the competences that are emerging in the new government will be able to assert themselves in every place, including the drastic reduction of the implementing decree. The lack of an overall vision so far revealed was also evident on the side of the other pathologies, which I remember deserve the same kind of attention as the Covid. Continuing to postpone a series of specialist visits, screening and radiological and diagnostic examinations cannot but lead to an increase in mortality and morbidity (not only in oncology), the social and economic costs of which will be extremely important in the coming years, together with the weight of the waste that will fall on the shoulders of future generations, without having taken seriously into consideration the use of new technologies already implemented, with costs far lower than hospitalization, which allow to monitor patients remotely that, at the initial stage, instead of being hospitalized, can be followed with home care, freeing human and instrumental resources to be finalized to the recovery of secondary prevention programs and the delayed interventions. This is what was done at the Cotugno hospital in Naples to monitor Covid's departments with wireless bracelets, a technology absolutely systematizable at home. Prevention, technologically assisted domiciliarization of care, contrast and safe containment of variants that feed the pandemic, as known of exclusive competence at the central level, whose punctual exercise, in implementation of the innovative programmatic guidelines, even confirmed by the European Commission with the HERA plan, will allow to intervene shortly also on the mechanism of chromatic regulation, on which it continues to insist, all centered on the automatism of the so-called RT, while it is known for a long time that it is necessary to take equally into consideration the average incidence and the GDR. After not having been heard so far in our multiple cry of pain to recognize to the doctors and the remaining health and social health workers victims of the Covid an economic refreshment, we are now certain that the Executive will also reflect on this topic, remedying it, going to recover our bill n. 1861, which can be supported with the resources deriving from the marginalization of the wastes recently emerged. Solidarity must not fail, especially at times like these, and we must be able to demonstrate it, not just in words. [[Applause]] It is time to act, to act without delay in the redevelopment of expenditure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u49	Senator Toninelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in this House to discuss and approve the conversion into law of the last decree-law of the Government of Giuseppe Conte, to which were added the contents of the first decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of the new Government Draghi. This is an important measure because it maintains the tough line in the prevention and fight against the virus and because it introduces a new tool in the management of vaccinations. It is a national information platform to facilitate the use and distribution of vaccines on the national territory. Another important legacy of Draghi's predecessor. I do not know about you, but I feel a strange, hypocritical, cowardly silence in the political debate these days, both by some parties and by some media. Until a few weeks ago, this measure of the Count Government would have been severely opposed by political subjects who would have yelled and torn their clothes, accusing him of wanting to establish a health dictatorship or, worse still, of wanting to drown the country. [[Applause]] In these months we have listened to the same statement of everything and the opposite of everything, in order to hinder the work of the previous government. It suffices to recall their most recent statements in order to realize how much falsehood and hypocrisy was hidden behind these disputes. For these parties and their leaders, the division of the Regions into colored areas, depending on the health risk, represented madness, generating chaos and economic damage. Even there were those who invited the citizens to violate these restrictions: unholy politicians who propaganda on people's skin, in order to ride their feelings of frustration and anger. [[Applause]] This didn't happen a year ago, but very few weeks ago and now - poof! It's all gone. Or rather, only the polemics and chaos have disappeared, not the bands of colored risk, which were, according to them, the triggering cause. Today, therefore, we know with certainty that it was only propaganda and instrumental attacks on the government. [[Applause]] Now that the colored areas have not only remained, but even increased with the addition - heard well - of the fifty shades of orange, everything is fine, well indeed. I wonder: how are you justifying this triple turn of the Salvini propaganda machine? Let's hope not with a post on homemade egg noodles or maybe grandma's tart. What do you want it to be, if so much to pay the highest price were those citizens who gave credit to their falsehoods; moreover, they are the same who have led Lombardy to be the Region with the greatest number of deaths ever. [[Applause]] Even many governors of the right-centre regions seem to have closed the controversy. A few days ago Attilio Fontana, the Swiss millionaire account hidden behind a trust in the Bahamas, wrote that the new government will have the Regions at its side. Do we realize that? These subjects now say that they will work constructively with the Government of which they are now part. We are happy, but we wonder: what did they do first? Perhaps they hindered him even when he struggled to save the greatest number of lives? A reasoning that should not exist in time of peace, imagine yourself in time of war on the pandemic, like ours. But perhaps for someone politics and consensus come before people's lives. [[Applause]] Just in these days, Fontana has established dozens of red zones in individual municipalities of Lombardy: just right. Too bad he did so after having said and repeated for a whole year that he could not do it; that the responsibility for the failure to close Alzano Lombardo and Nembro was of the then President Conte; that he could not in fact establish local red zones because he had neither the Army nor the Forces of Order. And now that his party has entered the government, how enchanted he has rediscovered himself able to do so. I wonder: how many lives could he have saved if he had simply done his duty as governor of Lombardy instead of making angry opposition politics to Count for over a year? [[Applause]] Not to mention the demands for centralization of powers, on Covid, come in these days precisely from that center right that in recent months has always harshly criticized the Government asking for more powers for the Regions. Do I have to remind you of the wrong data on positive Covid sent for too many weeks from the Lombardy Region to the CTS? Not even an admission of guilt or a taking of account of the disaster done. Even the media system, with some exceptions of course, has made a smooth turn: the center-right press has curiously silenced itself with the arrival of the new government, while the unconditional support to Draghi has led many other newspapers to re-evaluate many measures equal or almost those introduced by the former president of the Count Council. Let us come to the topicality. The news of the replacement of Arcuri with the General of the Son's Army as a new extraordinary commissioner for the Covid emergency, welcomed with a collective jubilation that united both parties and until yesterday were to the opposition that all their media. Exactly as it happened with the fall of Count, because the serial protesters of Conte do not care about the concrete facts, but who occupies the armchairs: they attack those who take away votes, power and money (and I know something about it). It doesn't matter if Draghi follows Conte's path; it doesn't matter if Bianchi continues Azzolina's work; it doesn't matter if the same proposal to extend the school year was first mocked and attacked if it was Azzolina, and today it is raised to a brilliant idea. [[Applause]] If it is the new President-in-Office of the Council. There is another terrible silence in this Senate: that of those who have provoked a crisis of unholy government at the most difficult time for our country since the post-war period. And while there were those who worked to repair this crisis, he flew to Saudi Arabia to praise the Crown Prince bin Salman, pointed out by American intelligence as responsible for the barbaric killing of journalist Khashoggi [[Applause]] , even elevating this totalitarian regime to the cradle of the new Renaissance. In the name of what interests did you do so? Certainly not the interests of Italians. A resounding scandal about which there is too little talk and which concerns a Senator of the Republic, who is paid with the money of the citizens. [[Applause]] A senator who should resign and leave politics for the shame that has brought down all our country. I am going to conclude by saying that the measures contained in the decree-law we are debating today are not the pride of anyone; we would like to avoid them and we are working to ensure that this happens as soon as possible; but today they are the only measures that are really effective to contain infections, at least until the vaccination campaign has drastically reduced the number of patients and alleviated the pressure on our hospitals. In the same way, there is a need for refreshments that must reach families and businesses as soon as possible; refreshments that are now called support. Come on, you need to use semantics to make your electorate believe that things are changing. [[Applause]] Ristors who would already be on the current accounts of Italians if someone had not decided to throw our country into chaos. I shall conclude, Mr President. Despite everything that has happened, despite the worst of the worst of politics, going ahead with the fight is a duty, protecting the health of the citizens and the economy remains the only priority to be pursued; propaganda must always be opposed to the real commitment and the sense of responsibility, the only ones that can move us forward with a high head. The virus was, is and remains... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] .. and this measure can help us to do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u53	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we have not understood whether Senator Toninelli's is an intervention of opposition or majority. Above all, it is not clear to us whether he has spoken in dissent from his Group; frankly, we have not understood that.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u54	Senator Ronzulli, we are in the process of general discussion and not at the moment of explanation of vote or even less about trust, which is not there. The general debate is closed. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. not only for sanitization but also for the same meeting of the RAI Supervisory Committee. (The sitting was suspended at 13.02 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.) Let's resume our work. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what was decided during the examination in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 1.13, 1.14, 1.15, 2.2, 2.3, 3.0.10, 3.0.11, 3.0.14, 3.0.15, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.0.1 (identical to amendment 4.0.3), 4.0.2, 5.0.2, 5.0.3, 5.0.4, 5.0.5, 5.0.6, 5.0.7, 5.0.8, 5.0.10, 5.0.11 and 5.0.12. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u55	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1,10000 and 1,100. I give a favourable opinion on the first commitment of the G1.1 agenda with the following rewording: It commits the Government to continue to ensure adequate and immediate economic support throughout the whole chain, and against the second commitment. I am voting in favour of the agenda G1,100 by including in the commitment the following formula: I am in favour of the agenda by including the following formula: I am also in favour of the agendas G1.102 and G1.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u56	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u57	Senator Ciriani, do you accept the rapporteur's proposals for reformulation? CIRIANI (FdI). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Instead, I note that the other presenters welcome them. Amendments 1.1 and 1.2 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 110000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.3 to 1.6 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.7 to 1.12 (text 2) have been withdrawn. Amendments 1.13 to 1.15 cannot be proposed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.1, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, agendas G1.100 (text 2), G1.101 (text 2), G1.102 and G1.103 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u58	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 2.1 and 2.0.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u59	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u60	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.1 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.2 and 2.3 cannot be proposed. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u61	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 3,100, 3,101, 3.14 (text 2), 3,102, 3,103 (correct text) and 3.0.12 (text 2). The remaining amendments were rejected. I invite the Government to accept the agendas of the day G3.100 and G3.101. I understand that the G3.1 agenda has been withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u62	Senator Augussori, do you confirm that the G3.1 agenda has been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u63	Yes, I confirm that. Mr President, I also withdraw Amendment 3.8 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u64	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G3,101, I would ask whether it is possible to include the entire section of the Armed Forces within the sections listed in the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u67	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would ask you to add the signature to the agenda for Mr G3.101. I would like to ask the first signatory, Senator Siclari, if ecological operators can be covered by the workers of essential services.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u68	If we continue on the list, we don't finish anymore. Senator Siclari agrees?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u69	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u70	Does the rapporteur and the representative of the government agree?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u71	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u72	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u75	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the work of the Senate, because I hear that today the Parliamentary Commission was convened for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, and so some of our colleagues have not been able to take part in the vote in this House because they are engaged in the Commission. Mr President, I would merely ask you to check the coordination of the work as closely as possible so that some senators are not allowed to participate in the work of this House. Since I see that a colleague has already arrived, but others are still on the way, I would ask you whether it is possible to provide for a short pause to allow them to come to the House and vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u76	Senator Santangelo, we moved the resumption of the session to 3:00 p.m. to allow the parliamentary committee to be convened for the general address and supervision of broadcasting services. The problem is that the Commission must be despondent when there is a sitting in this House and not the other way round. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u79	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, you are right, but the Supervisory Committee concluded its work shortly before 3 p.m. It took just the time to get here; it's not around the corner. Moreover, the hearing was of Minister Franceschini on something important. I wonder if it was not possible to wait ten minutes, so that a Senator of the Republic could express his vote. We weren't playing, we weren't doing interviews, we were just working. I demand that my votes be recorded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's absolutely impossible, Senator Airola. AIROLA (M5S). At least I'm not considered absent.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u80	It will remain with the acts that his absence was linked to the presence in the Supervisory Board. AIROLA (M5S). This is important, because a senator is denied the opportunity to vote and it is serious.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u83	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I too am speaking on the work of the Senate only to inform the House that the RAI Supervisory Committee meeting ended ten minutes ago, at 3.05 p.m., in perfect time to attend the proceedings of this House and the Commissioners are on their way.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u84	I have closed the Commission's speech. Each one takes his place and we recover the lost vows. Amendments 3.1 to 3.5 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.6 to 3.11 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,101 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.12 and 3.13 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.14 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.16 to 3.19 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,102 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.20 to 3.24 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,103 (correct text) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.25, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agendas G3.1 and G3.2 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G3,100 and G3,101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendments 3.0.1 to 3.0.9 have been withdrawn. Amendments 3.0.10 and 3.0.11 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.12 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.0.13 has been withdrawn. Amendments 3.0.14 and 3.0.15 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law which I call on the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u85	Mr President, I would like to explain very briefly the order G4100, which calls on the Government to consider the possibility of providing for provisions so that the municipalities that vote can proceed in advance to the census of their inhabitants in the light of the fact that there have been changes in the population compared to the last census of ten years ago. The next census will take place in a few months, but it will probably be shortly after the local elections. In this way we can ensure that the municipalities proceed to vote and elections with the number of inhabitants updated to allocate the corresponding number of councillors and councillors so that the administrations can work with a reasonable number of elected compared to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u86	Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on the spirit of the G4.101 agenda, which is the result of our amendment 4.2, which is welcomed by the Commission as a whole. The agenda goes to heal and resolve the issue that has been open for years for small municipalities that are in trouble during elections when there is only one list deposited and therefore the great impact of voters living abroad makes the quorum disappear to make the election valid. We have found a technical solution which will be transposed into a legislative act in the near future and this agenda certifies that it is a solution widely shared by Parliament. It is a great satisfaction because it is a battle that we have been carrying out for years.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u87	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u88	I am in favour of amendment 4.1. I also support the G4100 and G4101 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u89	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, but for amendment 4.1, the government is back in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u90	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.2 has been withdrawn. Amendments 4.3 to 4.6 are unacceptable. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G4,100 and G4,101 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 4.0.1 to 4.0.2 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u91	Mr President, I am in favour of the G5.100 agenda, against Amendment 5.0.13 and against Amendment 5.0.16.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u92	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u93	Amendments 5.1 to 5.3 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G5.100 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 5.0.2 to 5.0.12 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u96	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, on Amendment 5.0.13, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro, Brothers of Italy insisted before this Government was born together with many other Members of the Senate. Our amendment simply proposes that we try not to place an enormous burden on the restaurants, i.e. on pubs, bars, restaurants, ice cream shops, pastry shops and other things, which, as you know, are penalized because, in the red regime, they are closed, as they are practically in the orange regime, while in the yellow areas they currently have to close immediately after lunch time, at 6 p.m. Our amendment 5.0.13 provides that in the yellow areas of the catering industry it may be allowed to remain open until 22, in this way not only helping these activities, but allowing citizens to have greater security. In fact, any of you will have seen the full restaurants at noon and dramatically closed in the evening, because people, unable to go in the evening, if they want to go to the restaurant, flock in the hours when it is allowed and the same applies to other similar activities. In our amendment 5.0.13 we therefore call for action to be taken, in accordance with all the times and procedures relating to hygiene, safety and distance, in the sense that the orange zones are allowed to open from 5 a.m. to 6 p.m., while maintaining the current way of intervening in the red zones. Mr President, I was amazed at the speed with which an amendment of this kind was rejected in the Commission, with the only vote in favour of Brothers of Italy; I thank the League (and not other parties) who at least abstained. [[Applause]] I expect an extra step here, but thank you. All other political forces have not even addressed this incomprehensible anomaly: compared to all other activities, the only difference is that the catering chain closes. In the yellow area everything works, they are all open except the catering and entertainment and gymnasiums, because it is so. So, Mr President, it seems to us that the continuity of this Government with the former can be interrupted on this amendment. If there is anything new from the Draghi government, let us begin with this amendment. Let's see that as a Senate we are not pedissequamente in the same position as the previous Conte- bis government; let's understand that we are looking point by point, with due attention, at the realities that exist in Italian society. I believe that starting from this point - I repeat - is not only a help for those categories, but it guarantees greater security for citizens. In fact, the way in which this issue has been addressed, i.e. by accepting it, does not help safety, does not help distancement, does not facilitate the possibility of compliance with hygiene rules, but instead multiplies negativity. Therefore, Mr President, I hope that, before we vote, every Member of Parliament, who also wanted to join this new majority, will regain his freedom of judgment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u99	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I was afraid that we would come to this kind of request. We all live in an extremely unfortunate period, from all points of view, but to arrive at the possibility of allowing those who can distance themselves and give a service at a price that will certainly triple to go ahead with others, I find it to be a serious discrimination. Unfortunately, we are all in the same condition and we must only aim to get out of this crisis as soon as possible. These actions and demands can only lead to greater territorial, social and economic discrimination. I am very pleased, therefore, with the Government's opinion against it and hope that I will no longer hear these proposals, not even from the opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u102	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the subject raised with the amendment tabled by Senator La Russa by his colleagues from Brothers of Italy is a sensitive subject for the Forza Italia Group. I want to remind you that in times not suspicious we were the first to point out the anomaly for which it was possible to allow the restaurant inside the companies and instead it was not possible to authorize the restaurant inside the restaurants, while respecting all the protocols. We believe, however, that it is not only the restaurateurs, pastry chefs and bartenders who suffer this crisis and have the right to work, so as not to have to choose whether to starve or die of Covid. [[Applause]] We believe that there is a need for a measure that addresses the issue in a structural and overall way. We can therefore reassure Senator La Russa that our vote of abstention is a commitment to present, in the near future, an organic measure that takes into account the needs and difficulties not only of the restaurateurs, but also of all those other categories which, in our view unfairly, are excluded from the exercise of their activities. For these reasons, our Group will abstain from voting on this amendment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u103	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.13, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.0.14 and 5.0.15 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 5.0.16 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u106	Mr Causin (Europeans-MAIE-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, the approval of the umpteenth decree of the President of the Council of Ministers by Parliament, but also by the country, is accepted as an apparently normal fact, but exactly a year ago, for the first time in the history of the Republic and Western democracies, Italy - the first country compared to other European countries - adopted a measure limiting personal freedoms, mobility, free economic initiative and also the sociality of people. [[Brusio.]] I'll stop for a second because I'm having a hard time hearing my voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u107	I believe it is everyone's interest to finish the session in certain times. The longer we slow down the interventions, the later we finish. To stop chatting along the stairs is not good for the House, nor is it a sign of respect for the speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u108	Otherwise, given that parliamentary democracy is a commissioner, we can deliver the speeches and have the same effect.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u109	Otherwise we suspend the work, so we're happier to stay.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u110	Mr Causin (Europeans-MAIE-CD). If there is no interest on the part of the House, we can also hand over the speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Her height doesn't help her. Mr Causin (Europeans-MAIE-CD). My height doesn't help me, because the microphone is too low. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We should put on an extension. Mr Causin (Europeans-MAIE-CD). I understand that we cannot make an ad hoc measure, otherwise it would be unpleasant. It seemed then, that is, when these measures of limitation of personal freedoms were adopted, that this was an extraordinary and enormous act, a highly controversial act, which was strongly criticized by many political forces. However, in the following weeks all the European countries, no one excluded, followed the example of Italy, proving that the choice to go towards the closures and to these limitations was a correct choice. One chose not to underestimate the danger of the virus and the speed at which it could spread. After a year, the front of the contrast to the pandemic is still dramatically open. This is precisely why it is once again necessary to extend measures to restrict personal and economic freedoms. In these days the scientific evidence related to the spread of the virus and the new variants outlines a picture once again worrying, especially in consideration - as we have highlighted in the last debate of the Assembly - of the scarce quantities of vaccines that are produced and made available to our country and other European countries. However, in the normality with which today we convert yet another decree-law there is nothing normal and there is nothing taken for granted. In the first year of the Coronavirus era tourist activities, accommodation and catering activities, gyms, beauty centers, clothing shops, the world of entertainment, entertainment and culture, port activities and airport activities with all the adjoining chains (to name but a few) have turnover over the course of twelve months, when it went well, 30 percent of the revenues of the previous year. As you will understand, this is an absolutely insufficient economic value not only to guarantee a personal or family income, but also to pay tax and fixed costs. Over 350,000 small and medium-sized enterprises (artisans and traders) and professionals have already closed their doors and only the large use of the integration fund today allows to contain the problem of work and the problem of the professions. The effects of the crisis are devastating in terms of general taxation. Do not escape this Parliament - I repeat: do not escape this Parliament - that the INPS, during 2020, produced a cash deficit of EUR 20 billion, of which 15.7 billion are due to the fact that we have asked the INPS to intervene on the supplementary funds and on the EUR 600 for professionals. Moreover, schools are still closed and our children are going on with distance learning; it is a damage to learning, but it is also a damage to the sociality of younger people. I do not believe and we do not believe that the real country can hold long in these conditions. You have to hurry. The fact that, sixty days after the adoption of the EUR 32 billion budgetary deviation (approved unanimously by this Parliament and this House), the time has not yet been found, and the way by the Government to finalise the measure on refreshments (or support, whatever you want to call them), is certainly a step change, but it is a step change backwards. There are 32 billions available for 60 days and the government, which has been installed for two weeks, has not given priority to this measure. We cannot afford to delay, because stalling on these measures means stalling on people's skin. I believe, then, that the time and experience acquired during these twelve months must enable the Government and Parliament to act immediately, to open, to close, to determine the timetables and to do so no longer on the basis of random assumptions or assessments; to act on the Ateco codes, but also on the timetables, on the basis of scientific certainty. Changing step also means having the courage, as indicated by the political force Brothers of Italy, to rethink, for example, the closures and openings of certain categories of Ateco and to do so on a scientific basis. A country as big as Italy is saved only if it returns to produce. We cannot rely on either the restorative or the support or the recovery fund. In fact, even if it's a lot of money, if a country doesn't work on the basis of the real economy, it burns right away. The change of pace can only be in the perspective that people can return soon to normal life, to live freely, to produce, to do their job, to have their own sociality and also to be consumers. We therefore hope that the Government's commitment to the vaccination campaign in Europe will have the result that we all hope and hope, that it can be effective and optimal, given the organizational capacity of Italian health care, and that this is a way to speed up the return to normality. For this reason, the Europeanist-MAIE-CD Group announces a vote in favour of the bill of conversion of the decree-law presented by the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u113	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, I wanted to use one minute of the time available to me to talk about an unfortunate fact which happened earlier and which concerned Senator Matteo Renzi. I'm referring to the arrival of an envelope with two casings. I believe that solidarity and closeness should be expressed to Senator Matteo Renzi [[Applause]] As the presidency of the Senate has already done, as has been said, with a gesture that is absolutely to be appreciated. We believe these facts are the spy of something that is not very good. This is not the first time they have happened but they continue to happen. There is a need to bring - and this must be an invitation to responsibility to all of us - the political confrontation to the place where the same must take place. A political confrontation also harsh, on issues on which there is no sharing, tearing, but that must never reach denigration, hate campaign, violent campaign on the person. It is something from which we must absolutely protect the institutions. This is a duty that we have beyond our origin, our party belonging, our personal stories. Mine wants to be above all a reflection that we must give to ourselves, trying to reverse the course in political confrontation. I believe that this parliamentary term, because of the characteristics it has assumed, will provide some solutions in this direction. The measure that we are going to convert into law today is a decree-law that fits in with the rules that have been approved in this last year in relation to the strategies of containment of the emergency from coronavirus. I have heard some speeches about a new economic strategy, which absolutely must be put on the ground and that the Dragon Government, as is evident from what we read and from the measures that are beginning to be structured, will quickly take place. Today we are preparing to convert a decree-law that continues in the wake of attention to putting in place strategies and policies of risk containment. In fact, we are going to approve the Senate Act 2066, supplementing it with the measures taken by the Government in recent weeks. It was a decree-law that, in fact, extended the effects of the two main legislative acts that characterized the strategy of containment of the emergency, Decree-Law No 19 and Decree-Law No 33 of 2020, until 30 April, in fact, by equalizing those deadlines on the date of the extension of the state of emergency already decided by the Council of Ministers. We know that these measures have defined the whole strategy of closing the first emergency and, therefore, the restrictions on the movement and movement of people, the limitations of assemblies and school activities, the closure of museums, theatres and so on. Then, with Decree-Law No 33 of 2020 there was a phase of opening, or rather of defining the modalities of possible openings with regard to educational activities, meetings in presence, protocols for catering activities and economic activities and, more generally, social activities. The decree-law in question extends to 30 April the deadline for the entire regulatory part that marked the beginning of the emergency in March 2020. Moreover, the Government has produced an amendment which extends until 27 March the prohibitions of movement, especially as regards travel between regions - the topic that has most made talk in recent weeks - integrating the previous decree-law in the last decisions taken. This is the starting point of the new legislation, which still wants to offer protection to citizens: it is above all a measure of this nature and not an economic one. In addition, new life is given to the topic that concerns the classification of risk on the basis of the famous colors: a strategy that, even if discussed in some cases, has become in some way patrimony of citizens who, through the decisions taken regarding the placement of their own Region in one of the possible colors, acquire awareness of the risk that, more or less widespread, there is in their own Region. With the measure under consideration, this aspect is intensified by introducing new terms for the classification of the Regions in relation to the amount of infection per 100,000 inhabitants, which determine those scenario parameters (scenario one, two and three) in which the Regions are placed according to the minor or greater risk of circulation of the virus. This is an aspect that could not objectively be called into question, because it is a minimum basis for the construction of all the decisions that the Ministry of Health and, consequently, the Regions take on their territory with regard to prohibitions of movement and restrictions. In my opinion, we should ask ourselves a few more questions about how we deal with the data today. In this sense, in the measure that we convert to law, Italy Viva had promoted an amendment for the construction of an observatory that allows the daily analysis of epidemiological data, because from some studies and analysis - I say it in a very secular way - emerges as all parameters of evaluation that then converge in the definition of the famous index RT often are ten days old compared to the concrete data of diffusion of the virus. A daily observatory would allow us to have data that would allow us to take the following actions on a daily basis. This is what an important physicist, Battiston, said, putting the subject in a concrete way. In practice, this system would allow the necessary measures to be taken more quickly. In this sense, the Umbrian model was highlighted by the aforementioned Battiston, which allowed to take very rapid initiatives, in some cases with the closure of the municipalities (e.g. the whole province of Perugia and some municipalities of the ternano) which allowed the RT index in a few days to descend below level 1. This is to say that we can start to reason also on new strategies listening to opinions of teachers and reference figures that already work in the field of analysis of epidemiological data, as in the case of the professor of the University of Trento Battiston. This is something that we need to see as a contribution to the debate; no one has absolute certainty, but we can think of working in new and in some ways unexplored areas as well. That amendment wanted to be a stimulus to this direction, and we hope that the government can recover it in reading the policies to be adopted in the coming weeks and in the strategies to contain the virus which, with the variations we have noted in recent weeks, is causing more than one concern. This is the spirit in which today we express a vote in favour of the conversion into law of the Senate Act 2066, supplemented by the amendment of the Government that accepted the need to push forward the deadlines with regard to the policies of closures, the prohibition of movement between regions. Finally, I would like to make one last important point: there has been a great deal of debate in this House, including accusations against the political scene of the last few weeks, as if some political force - our own in particular - were to blame for the change in the political framework. However, if we go to see the scenario before us, the decisions taken by the Dragons Government in the first days of life and the change that took place (in the structure of the Secret Services with Gabrielli, with the appointment of Son to new extraordinary commissioner for the emergency Covid-19 and Curcio as head of civil protection and other important appointments), we realize that we have become aware of reversing the route, in a view aimed at rebuilding a set of competences able to face the second phase that, from the point of view of the emergency, is still very serious and worrying, but that we must see ourselves protagonists above all in the context of the vaccination campaign, which is the real way out that in the coming months will have to engage the Government at the highest level. We believe that the appointments that have been made over the last few weeks allow us to have some extra optimism and to think of a real reversal of course, which we demanded, but which in reality the whole country was demanding decisively and determinedly. On the basis of these reflections concerning the measure, but also a future projection of the political activity of this Parliament and the Government, I announce the favorable vote of Italy Viva to the conversion of the decree-law in question. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u116	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, with your permission, I would spend a few moments answering Mr Nugnes' question about restaurants. Connected, the kind of proletariat of catering that you tell us reminds me of that phrase by Montanelli that the left loves the poor so much that it creates them [[Applause]] , and continues to create them seamlessly. I note, beyond the too easy joke, that we are going to meet the summer and so also the catering sector of this country, of the whole country or better of the whole continent. Therefore, Mr Nugnes, the forecast of the reopening of restaurants even in the evening - with the necessary measures of distance and protection - in spring and summer would be allowed to everyone, and therefore, the proletariat of catering would be guaranteed to anyone who has a terrace, a sidewalk, a very small structure, a garden. Don't worry, my colleague: we will also be very careful not to penalise anyone. Don't worry about it. With regard to the decree-law, President, I would like to announce our vote against immediately. The measure under consideration which consists of two parts - the last part is the legacy of the Count Government, improved, in our understandings, integrated, in our opinion simply in line with the logic of all the measures adopted so far, by the first measure of the Dragon Government that we are voting together - clearly acts once again on the side of constraints, on the front of the limitation of individual freedom of movement, of enterprise. It acts alone and only on that forehead. Mr President, today we continue to say that restrictions and containment measures are being imposed, not least because - unfortunately, it has been too easy - thirteen months since the first lockdown, they lose their effectiveness, since no one resigns to the loss of fundamental freedoms. Beyond the controls and psychological terrorism, these measures are physiologically destined to lose their effectiveness, so it remains quite useless to continue to grieve with further containment measures on our people, who are already prostrated, prostrated and afflicted. On the other hand, what should happen is that the State finally plays its part. I would like to leave out the problem of swabs, which we continue to do to a ridiculous extent, as well as the problem of treatment protocols, which we still do not have. Although the Minister here said that we have hospital and home care protocols, that is not the case, as confirmed by the President of AIFA during the hearing held last Monday by the Senate Health Commission. Leaving this aside, we need to focus on vaccines. It is quite clear that the vaccine remains the last bulwark to get out of the nightmare. The famous light at the end of the tunnel, the famous effort to cover the last mile, in essence all the crap we have heard for months from the government - dear President and dear colleagues - lies precisely in the ability of our country to vaccinate as many citizens as possible in the shortest possible time. There are some objections to this. Today, Minister Giorgetti - and we are absolutely happy about this - states: There is the will of the Government for a public-private pole for the search for vaccines. I'd like to say better late than never. We are perfectly in line with this requirement, so much so that today, Mr President, we wonder why our country has distinguished itself for not even having a vaccine in the third phase. Spain has three third-stage vaccines, Germany and France have two; we, who have a scientific community that is far from incapable - I repeat, quite different - of having a second-stage vaccine, but very far from seeing the light. We have to ask ourselves what happened. How is it that we, in addition to recording the record of deaths and the reduction of GDP, also record the cursed record that we have not been able to develop a vaccine in the third phase thirteen months after the beginning of the pandemic? Moreover, Mr President, on the side of this singularity, we have the first pharmaceutical industry in Europe: Italy has, for three years now, exceeded Germany's turnover in the manufacture of medicines. Well, with regard to this enormous capacity that we have and that we should have been able to exploit, why do we not produce vaccines on our own today? Since June there have been press reports that the first vaccines to be validated would have been those to messenger RNA, which are produced through a technologically advanced path that provides for the availability of bioreactors. Considering this and being the current equipment occupied for the current production, it was all too easy to say that we had to prepare ourselves for a national autonomous production under license or patent granting. I repeat: it was too easy. If that were the case, we would be in different conditions today. I ask myself and ask you, ladies and gentlemen, why do we not, internally, give permission to the regions where they demonstrate their ability to administer a certain number of vaccines per day, but do they receive less from the Commissioner's structure? Today, almost all regions are in these conditions. As long as the emergency lasts (so until the end of March, when - in your opinion - the famous 15 million doses could arrive) and we do not have the number of doses necessary to cover the requests of the Regions, why do we not authorize them on a transitional basis to buy on the market, from any source of supply, validated vaccines? Why don't we do it? Mr President, let me conclude by saying two things. As for the first, the Minister of Health has come several times to boast of the Europe agreement, which for us was instead a scallop agreement that penalized Italy, so much so that some countries - it is news today - are now coming out denouncing its limits and the inability, in the awareness that, at the current pace, our vaccination campaign will end in December 2022. If we wanted to close our vaccination campaign in September 2021 - so vaccination of at least 70 percent of the population - we should vaccinate 380,000 people a day. The current rate is expected to increase by 59.7% to reach the next target, i.e. the vaccination of 6,370,000 people between operators and health workers, RSA guests and older people over eighty years old, which was already planned last February. Compared to all this, it is quite clear that we need the famous change of pace that, at the moment, we cannot see in this provision, nor in the next one that has been announced. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u119	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the opinion of the Democratic Party on this measure is positive and I am now announcing our vote in favour. In our opinion, the positive view must be given for various reasons, the first of which lies in the fact that we see confirmed in the measure the installation of restrictions and sanctions that, during the last year, characterized all the action of the Government to fight against the pandemic. Given that the issue has been mentioned by several colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have had several DPCMs expressing nine decree-laws, starting from the first issued in February 2020, until the last of February 2021, which has been placed, through amendments of the Government, in the law of conversion of Decree-Law No. 2 of 14 January 2021. What has been the philosophy of the action that the Government has carried out over the past year? A philosophy inspired by the utmost prudence, the utmost attention and the desire not to exploit in a demagogic sense prostration, tiredness and fear of people. There is not one of us who would not be happy to be able to tell the citizens that we can lower our guard, that the time to abandon the line of attention has come, that we can open a season of freedom for all. We all wish we could say that, but there are those who say it by demagogy and there are those who do not say it because they think that demagogy is frighteningly dangerous at the present time. This continues to be the moment of attention and truth and, if we are to tell the truth, we must say that the situation in our country, although not close to the levels of maximum alarm that we have seen a few months ago, is still very worrying. We are not at all outside the tunnel, we must be extremely vigilant and send consistent messages to our citizens, accepting the sacrifices that are necessary to keep the pandemic under control; a pandemic made more insidious by the proliferation of variants that have forced the public bodies to adopt a more rigorous attitude and that have prompted our Government, in the last measure announced yesterday, to make changes in the ways of contrast to better take into account this novelty. I think the validity of this approach is clear. I think it was important yesterday to give the signal that there is conviction that the DCCM is the most appropriate tool to deal with the emergency, provided of course that it fits within a framework that is the one drawn by the decree-laws; so it has always happened from February onwards of last year and so it will have to happen in the future. As President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have never joined the party of those who asked for restrictions by decree, for the simple reason that only the decree is not effective to respond promptly to the needs of an emergency that sometimes requires reactions that must be put in place within hours. Let us not hide the difficulties there have been for the supply of vaccines. We all know that in order to get out of the tunnel there must be a qualitative, quantitative and qualitative leap in the inoculations. We know that, in order to achieve flock immunity, we need to speed up the pace of vaccination. Let us not hide, because we are Europeanists - and not because we are anti-Europeans - that something has not worked in the strategy adopted at European Commission level for the procurement of vaccines. And we denounce this fact because we are wondering about what changes, including the institutional architecture of the Union, must be made to ensure that limits of this kind in the future do not hinder the containment of the pandemic. I believe that there are all the conditions to be able to do effective work in the coming weeks, to ensure security for our citizens and to do so in conditions of mutual respect between the political forces and in a climate of unity that, in emergencies, never hurts. I would like to point out that during the examination of the measure by the 1st Commission, which has carried out the work of analysing and deepening the amendments, the two decree-laws adopted subsequently, adopted amendments which I think are very good and which have improved the measure. I want to make it clear that they have all been adopted with the unanimous consent of the Commission. Not being able to quote them all, I quote only three. The first is that that will allow us to strengthen the staff of the local health companies, even recalling in service, for a predetermined period, that is for maximum twenty-one months from today, until 31 December 2022, the sanitary ones that are currently retired. I think it is realistic action that inspires such an amendment. We are in emergency and the emergency requires emergency measures: excuse the bickering of words. This measure belongs to that category and will also enable us to strengthen our anti-pandemic intervention capacity. It is also important to me that the amendment which has restored equal treatment, because it is right that we should never double standards between the administration of food and drink in private establishments and the administration of food and drink in recreational, cultural and social circles. There was discrimination, which is no longer there, and I think we all have to be happy about it. Very important is the amendment, signed by Senator Boldrini, concerning the Commissioner for Emergency. General Son, has recently taken up this assignment, and therefore, we wish him a great deal of good work. Together with the wishes of good work to General Son, I believe it is necessary to express a sense of gratitude to Commissioner Arcuri, who has finished his work, who has worked in very difficult conditions in the last twelve months. The above amendment provides that, at regular intervals, the emergency commissioner shall send a report to the Chambers and submit a comparison with Members of Parliament. This measure, among other things, gives me the opportunity to recall an initiative that the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs, at the particularly strong request of my colleague Senator Nazario Pagano, has taken in recent months, to strengthen the idea that Parliament must be central in times of emergency, including through a special body, which can represent a valid and pressing interlocutor of the Government. Unfortunately, due to the opening of the government crisis and its long run, we were forced to stop the transformation of the product of the deal assigned into a bill, but I believe there is everyone's agreement to resume that work soon, also because it had been completed with a very broad consensus and with almost all the groups agreed to go in that direction. I believe that creating the conditions for greater involvement of Parliament is always extremely fair. These are the reasons why the Democratic Party considers it important to vote in favour of this measure, which also concerns - as we know - the postponement in May 2021 of the deadline within which the elections will be held, both the supplementary ones for the vacant single-member college seats for the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and the administrative election in the loose municipalities for mafia infiltration. In the Commission we have also noted that some of the lightening of the requirements, which were laid down during the emergency for the previous regional elections, will most likely also be necessary in view of the forthcoming electoral rounds, because they will take place when the emergency can be said to be far from over. For these reasons, I reiterate the orientation of the Democratic Party to vote in favour of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 2 of 2021. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u122	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Mr President, I too, on behalf of my colleagues in the Mixed Group, would like to express our solidarity with Senator Matteo Renzi. Never underestimate threats: you always have to respond and react to every act of intimidation. [[Applause]] Once again, ladies and gentlemen, as has happened several times in this year of pandemics, we are here in this House voting for the conversion of yet another decree-law, which we approve to face the Covid-19. We vote strongly in favour, also because Decree-Law No. 2, in its articulation, on which then the subsequent Decree-Law No. 15, was approved by the previous Government, which operated well. Our thanks to the outgoing President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte and all the Ministers, are authentic and not of circumstance. It is true that a different climate can be felt from the previous speeches. No one asks for the ESM anymore, while the bridge over the Strait of Messina is moving away and on that recovery fund, which was so much discussed, we have seen that President Draghi has rightly confirmed that it will be deepened and completed with regard to strategic objectives and reforms. Even those attacks on the ministers of interior and health, Lamorgese and Hope, seem to lose power since the line on migrants and the rigor to deal with the health emergency is shared by President Draghi. On the contrary, we can say without being denied that, in the last Council of Ministers on anti-Covid measures, the Government Draghi has acted in full continuity with that of Giuseppe Conte: the umpteenth DCCM, this time signed by Professor Draghi, which will take effect from 6 March to 6 April, including Easter, also includes red and narrow areas on schools. Unfortunately difficult weeks await us; the curve of contagions salt, hospital admissions also. We are fast approaching the 100,000 victims; we are 98,288 dead since the beginning of the pandemic, to 2,955,434 infected. And we find ourselves, within a few hours, in front of Presidents of the Region who wanted the evening opening of the restaurants and who today are instead forced to accept the red areas. The fact that the Higher Institute of Health is even more concerned is that the English variant has become prevalent in Italy: the percentage is 54 percent, with more infections and more hospitalizations. Today, colleagues and colleagues, the extraordinary commissioner for the emergency Covid has changed: Domenico Arcuri has been replaced by the army general of the Son army. Good work to General Francesco Paolo Figlio and thanks to Domenico Arcuri. This opens a new phase and I hope that no one will want to continue in unnecessary and harmful instrumental controversy for the country. Of course, not everything is smooth, but I want to remember that we were in front of each other and we are still facing today the biggest emergency that recent history remembers. There are difficulties in the vaccination plan, but the problem was and is upstream, namely the supply of vaccines - as my previous colleagues have rightly said - with the pharmaceutical companies that have not kept their commitments; delays also due to contracts signed by Europe which obviously left the vaccine producers the possibility of not paying pledges. So, good work General Son. [[Applause]] The decree-law to the attention of the Senate Chamber today has a main objective, which coincides once again with the strengthening of the policy of prevention from virus infections through the principle of caution. For this reason, the text contains provisions renewing the deadline for the applicability of restrictive measures; it introduces further measures concerning movements, meetings and the conduct of economic activities. And I cannot fail to express our greatest satisfaction at the Commission's adoption of the amendment proposed by the Senators of the LEU Group and myself, which equates the activities of feeding food and drink from recreational, cultural and social circles in the third sector with those of bars and restaurants. The decree-law also provides for the establishment of a national information platform - this is an important new element - to facilitate, on the basis of the needs identified, the distribution activities on the national territory of vaccination doses and devices and their tracing. Only a few days ago, on February 20th, we celebrated the first National Day to honor the work, commitment, professionalism and sacrifice of the health, social-health, social-care and volunteering staff during the coronavirus pandemic. Today the international situation continues to be worrying: the numbers that come to us from France and Germany do not calm down; it strikes the news that in the United States of America, where President Biden announced that the vaccination campaign will end by next May, there are half a million deaths since the beginning of the pandemic, the highest given in the world, more than the victims of two world wars and Vietnam. As is the case in the rest of Europe, we are faced with third-wave numbers. Let us continue, therefore, with balance and moderation - as the Conte Government has done - to manage the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, always having as its fundamental objective the protection of the health of the Italians, because without that cannot even start the economy. In the communications made to the Chambers, President Draghi insisted very much on the top priority of the vaccination plan so that it can be as fast and efficient as possible also for the supply. I have therefore fully agreed with the indications he has given to speed up and also to produce them in the national territory by setting a new strategy for finding an adequate number of doses. In March, massive doses are already expected after February 4 million and January 2 million. Further supplies are expected in the second half of the year. In this sense it is also important the agreement just signed between the Ministry of Health and all doctors of general medicine to administer the vaccine Covid, allowing our country, when they increase the doses available, to make our vaccination campaign stronger. We need to do everything we can to ensure that the right to health is protected on vaccines. We must fight for the issue of patents, because we must vaccinate rich countries and poor countries, and only then can we defeat the pandemic. We are against patents. The epidemic has changed the world; it has already had dramatic repercussions in our country, beyond the health aspect. In these months, with the Count Government, work has been done to prevent the health emergency from turning into a social emergency, but this one is there. Istat itself confirmed the other day that, in 2020, gross domestic product fell by 8.9%. Today the Mezzogiorno appears increasingly the weaker socio-economic area and the forecast and risk of an increase in the integration fund at the end of the blockage of redundancies is more obvious than ever. I would like to point out that the motto "First the North" blocked the growth of our country before the pandemic. Today more than ever we must reduce the gap between North and South, otherwise it will not come out. If the South doesn't start again, Italy doesn't start again. Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a difficult time and it is up to us to continue to make choices of responsibility and rigour to protect the community. I conclude by announcing the vote in favour of the decree-law under consideration by the Senators of LEU and the majority of the Mixed Group. People first! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u125	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I too, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, can only give the utmost solidarity to Senator Matteo Renzi for the very serious incident that has taken place. [[Applause]] Even receiving casings in the Senate as a sign of evident intimidation, but also of contempt for this very high institution I think it is a very serious fact that must be stigmatized. I would add that when these things happen we must also ask ourselves why, so it is obvious that moral leaders are there and we, who are the garrison of democracy in this country, must always remember this and this is the reason why I remember it today. [[Applause]] Having said that, I would now like to concentrate, as is right, on the explanation of vote of Forza Italia on this umpteenth decree-law that lengthens the times of the restrictions that unfortunately are forced by the Italian people and all the operators who are so much suffering because of this terrible pandemic for health reasons, given the many deaths. I would like to make an inscription on what Mr Ruotolo said: it is true that in America there have been so many deaths (500,000), but also in Italy, President Calderoli, we have had over 98,000 deaths; out of about 60 million inhabitants, we have in practice a percentage equivalent to that of the United States of America, if not even higher. If we think that we had 200,000 deaths or more during World War II, this figure shows the terrible and tragic impact that the pandemic has had in our country as well. We cannot underestimate this. The measure under consideration provides for the extension to 27 March of the restrictions repeatedly renewed; among other things, this is the reason why Forza Italia will abstain, because the decree-law was issued when we were in opposition, then it had a contribution from the majority, as Mr Parrini rightly pointed out, has also been improved with some amendments and agendas then voted by this House; however, it is right that, until a measure is born and ends within the current majority, Forza Italia, at least in this, distance it in terms of abstaining votes. Having said that, the decree-law deals with the zoning of our country in various colors. We are not opposed, as we have always said; it no longer makes sense to limit travel, to highlight certain restrictions of our fellow citizens in an equivalent way or in any case identical throughout the country: it is right to intervene where there are and there are outbreaks, all the more so because of these terrible variations, such as the English one. For example, in my territory of residence, in Pescara and Chieti, for ten days already terrible and devastating outbreaks have been created that unfortunately are killing many people and lowering the average age of the infected, therefore half of the Abruzzo region is already in the red area for days. I remind my colleague La Russa, who, in my opinion, has repeatedly unfairly underestimated this aspect, that even the President of the Marche Region, who belongs to Brothers of Italy, yesterday was forced to place the entire province of Ancona in the red zone and did not do so because he enjoys making restrictions, but because unfortunately the contagion has grown enormously also in that territory and we cannot forget it, because we have to tell us these things. [[Applause]] A local administrator, a regional president or a mayor have at heart the health of their fellow citizens, then they take charge of it and take responsibility also for seemingly unpopular measures. In the same way, I would like to explain, also in the light of Mr La Russa's proposal, that yesterday he was surprised at my vote against the amendment which also extended the opening of restaurants in the yellow areas in the evening, which unfortunately has to be done this way. As long as a territory has a very high contagion pressure, it must be avoided that there are assemblages. We cannot forget the images only a few days ago, in which in Milan in the Navigli area people went crazy and organized parties and made music and people even embraced each other. If we have fellow citizens who must be followed step by step, we, who have the responsibility for these measures, must do so. Until the tension of the contagions and, above all, the viral force of these new variants, particularly the English, Brazilian and South African ones, are lowered, we must be aware - because we are not insane or irresponsible - that the responsibility for the health of our fellow citizens must always be first and foremost. [[Applause]] We are equally convinced that the new Government has done well to give a sign of discontinuity: as my dear Senator Franco Dal Mas has rightly pointed out, the health emergency system has been de-arcurised and the Head of Civil Protection has also been replaced. We do not intend to throw the cross on anyone, but that a new Government would give a sign of discontinuity in the most delicate and pressing sector for Italian society, which is that of the emergency health, was absolutely necessary. Senator Aimi has said in a skillful and correct way, but above all rich in fundamental elements to have clear the situation, that the solution of our problems can only go through a national vaccination plan that is not only useful, but absolutely effective to get out of this situation. There is no other solution than to vaccinate all our fellow citizens. [[Applause]] How do you do that? We have too few vaccines. I read the agencies just now that comfort me in this regard, because I believe that it is absolutely necessary and fundamental to understand what our new government is doing in these hours. I read, for example, that the new Minister for Economic Development Giorgetti announces a decree-law called support which, in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, will already propose to the Council of Ministers next week. The aspect related to the question of restorative and reparations is obviously vital and absolutely necessary for those who, such as the restorators, are forced to keep their exercises closed in the evening. To those who live in the economy linked to winter sports, to the societies that deal with lifts or hoteliers - I address to Senator Mallegni - who also live in winter tourism, it is necessary to give no rest, dear Senator Moles, but real compensation with respect to the damage they have suffered and also to the billed ones of the previous year. [[Applause]] I would also like to remind you of the statements made by Mr Gilberto Pichetto Fratin, a new Undersecretary. [[Applause]] , which has just announced that a national multi-annual vaccination plan is absolutely necessary, because it shares the need to address this issue in the years to come. This means that in Italy we have to produce vaccines. [[Applause]] All right, then, what was announced by Minister Giorgetti, that is the possibility of producing vaccines also on national territory. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the situation is what it is, we have been saying it for a long time. Forza Italia - all the more so now that it is part of the majority - is aware of the responsibilities that belong to this political formation. We are there and we will make our contribution. As always, we are on the Italian side. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u128	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, my fellow Senators, the Lega Group also expresses its solidarity with my colleague Senator Renzi for the vile intimidating act he has suffered. A joint note has already been issued by our group leaders Romeo and Molinari representing the entire Group in the Senate and the House. [[Applause]] Let us make it clear immediately what we are dealing with and what we are going to vote on. At our examination there is the conversion of one of the last decrees-laws of the Count Government, the last piece of a carefree and chaotic management of the emergency Covid. Let's close this game and then move on. The League is now there and makes available to the Government Dragons its pragmatism, its ideas and its proposals. With responsibility we put ourselves at the service of the country, to succeed where Count and his court of miracles have failed. A change of pace is needed: first of all it is necessary to review the timing for the adoption of the measures, as the Regions also ask. We need businesses and citizens to know well in advance whether and when they will have to reorganise their activities. [[Applause]] Enough with the "announcements" at the Casalino, the one on Friday night for Sunday morning. In order to establish with greater clarity the criteria for defining red, orange and yellow zones, it is necessary to reduce the number of parameters and simplify the classification system of the zones. A norm, even if unwelcome, is more easily endured by people if it is clear and transparent the ratio that generated it. [[Applause]] We want a friendly state alongside the citizens, a father who takes care of the children and not a master state that dictates incomprehensible orders. Between the return to normality, the resumption of economic activity and fundamental health protection, the point of balance must be common sense; only this must be our lighthouse. One year after the establishment of the emergency state, there must now be awareness of which rules and rules work and which ones are less effective and which are useless for the containment of the pandemic, which makes sense to maintain and which must be changed or abolished, because they are merely vexatory and do not produce concrete results. As an example, I bring to your attention the prohibition of movement between yellow or white regions, i.e. between territories with the same risk rate. It is difficult to explain to the citizens that they have some little notion of geography so that from Rimini you can reach Piacenza and not Pesaro, so that from Foggia you can go to Otranto and not to Molise [[Applause]] , because from Bolzano you can not go to Trento (60 kilometers away), when from Belluno you can go to Chioggia (from the Dolomites to the sea) or from Sondrio you can travel for hours to reach Pavia. You can't move from Abruzzo to Molise, although together they are almost half the size of many other regions where circulation is possible internally. All this is incomprehensible to the most and only undermines the authority and credibility of all the rules. Is it clear (other rule hardly accepted, why not explained) the logic that obliges parents not to take with them for a visit to relatives, together with the younger ones, even children of fifteen years? Teenagers are perhaps the most contagious category and must therefore be left at home alone? If this were true, how can this choice be reconciled with those related to school and with the other situations that young protagonists see? [[Applause]] If there is no logic, you change the norm; if there is logic, then explain it well, if you want it to be understood, accepted and implemented. [[Applause]] You see, colleagues, at the moment the reality outside these buildings is quite different from that theorized by the DPCM. Families move the same, perhaps with two cars, knowing that then, once they reach inside the houses, the controls will be almost impossible. We ask for more contact with the real country and less abstractism dictated by gray bureaucrats. We come to another topic dealt with by the decree Count of 14 January: the platform for the vaccine management provided for in Article 3. A tool is established to monitor the tracking of vaccine doses and other useful devices and materials. There was concern about how to distribute the doses, but the problem was that the doses were not there or, at least, there were not enough of the numbers promised. The regions have equipped themselves and were ready to quickly vaccinate a large number of citizens, but they have not received vials from Extraordinary Commissioner Arcuri. They have done well, therefore, President Draghi to urge the European community and Minister Giorgetti to open a table with the national pharmaceutical companies to activate the production in our country, to arrive at a true vaccine sovereignism. [[Applause]] We must act and intervene as soon as possible, because it is clear that something has not worked in the Big pharma-European Community-Commissioner sequence, perhaps because someone was too distracted to design the "primules." Mr President, I should like to read a whole page on Arcuri, the Immuni app, the wheelchairs, the contraas for masks, but I believe that at this point, even taking the cue of President Draghi's action, everything about Mr Arcuri can finally be overtaken and deleted. [[Applause]] However, we are asking another question. Is it worth creating a new platform, when regional information services already exist and a national vaccine registry is established? Would it no longer make sense to strengthen and invest in existing ones? We have to consider that, given the fact that vaccines are likely to provide annual coverage, we will have to live with these anti-Covid-19s for years. Would it not be better to include data management in the ordinary channel of the national health system from now on? These are questions on which a reflection should be made. Finally, attention and concern was expressed by our Group on the provisions of Article 5. The continuous postponement of the deadline for the renewal of expired residence permits to foreigners will result, once the state of emergency has ended, in the stay on national soil of at least one million people potentially not entitled (at the moment we have already exceeded the threshold of 700,000), whose applications for renewal will be examined and disposed of in a long period of time. We are asking for at least the provision to be made for priority treatment of expired permits within the first six months of 2020, in order to avoid asynchronousness in the system and inequalities that favour those who for longer have expired their residence permit. I shall conclude, Mr President, by stressing how crucial it is that from now on we abandon the logic of double track. In fact, so far, a decree-law on the rules corresponded to a subsequent decree on the ristors, issued days later, often with delayed effects of a further sixty days, connected to the parliamentary conversion. This left for days or weeks those who were from today to tomorrow to see the only form to guarantee their livelihood to themselves and their families to fail. If new closures were to be envisaged in the future, they would have to be combined in parallel with the consequent economic measures. [[Applause]] and, I would add, no longer in the form of refreshments, but in compensation and cover for the damage done. [[Applause]] Consider the progressive reopening of the activities now closed (restaurants, theatres, gyms); do so by establishing, if necessary, new protocols, even more rigid, but give the possibility to those who live only of their work to regain their dignity. It can be done with a few certain rules, serious and applied really and severely: those who respect them, remain open; those who scorn, pay and are closed. [[Applause]] Mr President, given the unsatisfying premises on which the measure under consideration was based, dating back to the previous yellow-red government, which led us a few weeks ago to vote in favour of the question, but trusting that from now on our requests will be transposed, which we have already seen with the approval in the Commission of some of our amendments and agendas, I would like to announce that the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote for a abstention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u131	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I am particularly pleased that the new Undersecretary can listen to me about digitalization, because I hope that they will be of interest to the things I am about to say. The measure under discussion today contains some urgent provisions that apply to the current period of epidemiological emergency and to the holding of elections for the year 2021. The 5 Star Movement considers these measures to be essential and for this reason I immediately declare our Group's vote in favour. Because of the continuing pandemic with its variants, the restrictive measures we already know are being extended, the deadline being moved from 31 January to 30 April. Since February 20, in fact, the incidence of positive cases has begun to rise again, which in these two weeks have increased by about 50,000, equivalent to about 12 percent more. As we see and read every day, the situation is still very serious and we cannot afford to derail from the path we have traced in recent months. We therefore continue to temporarily close economic activities; we ask to avoid gatherings; we limit individual freedom and movement. Unfortunately, schools are also closed, with serious damage to children and young people for their education and their future, but they are still necessary sacrifices. However, there is a significant novelty that gives some hope, namely the introduction of the so-called white zone. The situation today does not even allow for the safe conduct of the supplementary and administrative elections, which are therefore extended by specific rules. Now I would like to draw the attention of this House in particular to Article 3 of the measure that we are about to vote on, which establishes a national information platform to monitor the national distribution activities of vaccination doses, devices and other supportive materials for administration and tracing. The purpose stated at the head of the article is to give full and rapid transparency of implementation to the strategic plan of vaccines. The platform is of the Minister of Health and is prepared and managed by the Special Commissioner, while the management of the different stages of vaccination is entrusted to the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, who make use of their vaccination information systems as holders of the treatment. The important point of this rule provides, where the vaccination information system of these bodies is not adequate, that the platform performs under the subsidiarity rules the operations of booking vaccinations, recording the administration of vaccines and certifying them. It is important - and this is a decisive step forward - that this subsidiarity regime has been chosen by the State. The level of performance vis-à-vis the citizens is therefore uniform, regardless of the region of belonging, eliminating the territorial gaps unfortunately still existing. From our Group were presented and accepted as commitments by the Government some suggestions really necessary because improvement to pursue the end of transparency [[Applause]] , expressed in the norm towards citizens, civil society, research society and science. Through the sharing of accessible and transparent data, citizens could verify that restrictive decisions are made on truly scientific, verifiable, repeatable and therefore rationally acceptable by the population, even if they cost sacrifices. Only when there is a rational understanding of the decisions, will it be possible to have a conscious and supported support from shared motivation from the whole population. Therefore, our interventions provide first of all to ensure the full involvement - because today it is excluded, and it is a damage - of the Ministry for technological innovation and digitalization in the implementation and implementation phase of the current national platform Covid vaccines, as well as in the creation of all future national platforms, especially in the field of health. This would also be very important in the field of education, through the establishment of a national state platform for integrated digital teaching. In addition, it should be ensured that all data concerning the epidemiological emergency - with reference to cases, the situation of detentions and the development of vaccinations - are made totally public, subject to anonymisation, in open, broken down and continuously updated, well documented, machine-readable and easily accessible not only to institutional actors, but also to civil society associations, researchers, media and citizens, so that they have no doubts or concerns about the methods of collecting, processing and presenting data in such an impact on the population as a whole. This is what more than 160 associations are required, gathered in the #DatiBeneComune petition, which collected about 50,000 signatures. Data represents a heritage for our community and it is good to protect their value. This is the only way to reaffirm the absolute competence of the agencies in charge, to open up to total transparency, which is one of the indispensable values of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] Another commitment that we propose - and made precisely by the Government - is to include in the National Strategic Plan, among the categories to be vaccinated as a priority, also doctors and health care professionals, because they are strongly exposed to the risk of contracting the infection with SARS-CoV-2, as well as scientific drug informants, product specialists and technicians who enter the operating rooms as they fall within the priority categories, since they are comparable to non-health personnel operating in any capacity in the structures of the Health Service. Mr President, members of the Government, Senators and Senators, in addition to the measures of this measure, we still face several challenges today: the first concerns the new stage of refreshment (with the new name of support), which will have to be even more targeted and fair, but above all faster, because many are suffering because of this delay. In particular, we urge them in favour of those who really have lost everything because of the pandemic and our companies that have paid and are still paying the serious economic damage as a result of this crisis. Then there is the vaccination strategy: vaccines are finally coming; we must continue the vaccination campaign, which is the most powerful weapon to defeat the virus, increasing the efficiency of administration towards citizens. The digital transition requires instead to put into practice specific skills of well-trained and up-to-date professionals with respect to the state of the art, while, unfortunately, too many times, in the computer services of the public administration we assist to superficiality, imperience and obsolescence precisely in the fundamental steps necessary to complete the digital transition. We'll always report him until we see a change of pace. Finally, there's the recovery plan. In the various Commissions we are engaged in hearings with all the stakeholders, so as to put in place a serious project, that will allow us in the coming years to achieve a level of growth, investment and productivity increase that can make us overcome this dramatic crisis. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, everything that we approve of and have approved in recent months we are asked by citizens, civil society and our children and young people, to whom we must guarantee the future: a more innovative country, more scientifically and better organized, in which the younger generations are no longer involved in the shepherding of inefficiency, but can rejoice and enjoy efficient services that put them in conditions of equality at European and international level. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u133	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u134	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, as is widely expected, the desired change of pace which would have justified the end of the Conte- bis Government has not occurred, unmasking a plot ordained by several actors in function of logic merely partitioning. Those who expected the miracles of an enlightened government today have only the ugly copy of the previous management before their eyes. It is a species, above all, the total lack of regard for the school: in fact, one chooses to restore the freedom to take away also for the red zones after 18, which will favor assemblies and therefore circulations of contagion among those same young people who will then leave in distance teaching. On the school front, between commitment and disengagement, the government chose to make Pontius Pilate. The school, for the umpteenth time, is replaced by economic activities. In the red zone, in fact, all schools of every order and grade will be closed and still are not ready the dispensing measures for parents who work and compensatory for the learning gap of the students, except then announce the maintenance of the teaching activities until June 30. I wonder: remotely or in presence? It's a whitewashed burial operation. In addition, many teachers have been cut off from vaccinations, because they do not fall under the vaccination plan of the regions where they reside or even those in which they work. In other regions, it is not even possible to book for teachers who already work on the specially designed platform: no one has yet remedyed. Too much freedom of school management is also left to the Presidents of the Region, already totally out of control with the coverage of the State, while they continue not to ask them to account for what they have done or will do to ensure openness in safety. It is truly unacceptable for the state to admit that the only possible solution for schools is to close without local authorities having to demonstrate any commitment to keep them open. It has been a year now and many decrees follow each other, but we still navigate on sight: governments change and those who shouted against Count yesterday have changed and today votes in favour of similar measures decidedly worsening compared to what has been done previously, while what was to be the fifth decree restorative is still in the incubator of Draghi. For all these reasons, I declare the vote against the component of the Mixed Group called The alternative is the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u136	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u137	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, which country has closed the schools among the last? Great Britain. Which country is ready to open them among the very first? Great Britain. Which country is already setting off? Great Britain. The bales of those who, following Brexit, announced misfortunes for the British are coming to light. Stubborn Boris Johnson, on the other hand, is right. Why? For example, because Britain would never have dreamed of spending money on a myriad of wheelchairs, whose supplies did not even serve to give some oxygen to mobile companies. She would never have dreamed of bringing packages and packs of masks made by the Presidency of the Council into the schools and made by a group that manufactures cars. But, above all, Boris Johnson won the bet on vaccines, guaranteeing protection without obligation to all those who had requested it, without "primules" osannate by the press just because designed by architect Boeri. It was serious, the British. Seriety: a dark word to those who have defended Arcuri, granting powers that does not even have Queen Elizabeth. We hear that Draghi is the decision-maker we were waiting for, because he replaced Arcuri with General Son. That Arcuri had to be removed had my son understood it too and there is no need for Dragons to do obvious things. Dragons should have demonstrated discontinuity, changing Minister Hope, who is still there with all his circle of consultants and experts, with results that are before everyone's eyes. The imminent new closure of schools is simply shameful. You're destroying the lives of children and teenagers. The government is repeating the same mistakes. Is it possible that we still do not have serious legislation on masks? I hear we should wear two. But who guarantees their effectiveness? No one. In fact, a large number of check-test masks don't protect you as you say you do. To ride a motorcycle you need to wear an approved helmet, while to ride around and protect from the Covid the masks are approved in spans. These masks are of no use; do not tell us that you are interested in the health of the citizens, because in the holes of the controllers we are witnessing real scams that humiliate citizens, health workers and above all the truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u138	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 14 January 2021, No 2, laying down further urgent provisions on containment and prevention of the epidemiological emergency from COVID-19 and the holding of elections for the year 2021" (The vote was followed). It's approved. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the speeches made by representatives of various groups who have pointed out the episode of threats against Mr Renzi, as a Presidency I would like to associate myself with the closeness shown by all the Groups, together with the President, who has already contacted and expressed his solidarity with Senator Renzi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u141	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one cannot but be deeply impressed by the words of discouragement and the strong and intense phrases spoken by a Neapolitan nurse, Flavio, who works at the Colli Hospitaller Company. That repeated almost as a sad litany and a cry suffered by pain, the word "deadening" offers the possibility of a reflection matured both on the severity of the pandemic situation, and on the immense efforts and sacrifices of all health workers, that is, those who live at the forefront, every day, in the wards of hospitals or in intensive therapies the drama of the Covid-19, the violent impact of the virus and irreversible damage on patients that is capable of producing. (17.03) (Mauton followed). At the same time, these words also give a clear signal and a clear message about the state of inner suffering and the physical deprivations that doctors, nurses and social-health workers suffer on their skin, touched in their soul for the many human lives lost, for those who could be saved and did not make it and for the numbers of infections always high and constantly increasing at this time. Unfortunately, what makes them even more saddened and saddened, as Flavius denounces, is the sad contrast between the pain and suffering of the people affected by the virus, their discouragement, their fearful and lost gaze in the void, often their letting go and, on the other hand, the carelessness, the selfishness and the menephregism of some who, careless of the directives and the correct behaviors to be implemented and to be respected, necessary to reduce the spread of the virus, continue to have completely wrong attitudes, to say the least irresponsible, completely forgetting the spirit of solidarity and the sense of responsibility. Wicked! It is a cry of suffering that comes out from the depths of the soul loudly shouted, aloud, almost to overcome physical fatigue and inner distress, denouncing a certain feeling of humiliation and impotence in the face of the virus and its variants, more contagious and aggressive, but it is above all to denounce the continuous meephregism of many, often under the eyes of all of us and to remind us that this battle can be won, yes, with the help of vaccines, but fighting it all together, each for its part, with concrete facts and not in words. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u144	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, this morning, as has been said repeatedly in this House, an envelope was delivered with casings to Senator Renzi. According to custom, the carousel of solidarity is now opening for the serious gesture that would like to be intimidating towards the one who, with his head high and with his back straight, has always supported his ideas without fear of insults, addressed to him, too often to his family, and - I must say - also to many of us, as happened yesterday. However, I think it is time, inside and outside this House, to reason at least once on the weight that words have, especially those said at liberty to people who are not aware of the correct political dialectic and are ready to receive messages, often distant, addressed to this or that political exponent. Today's episode is only a gesture that has taken on the campaign of hatred that for too long has been implemented towards Senator Renzi by those who have manifested the inability to take up the political challenge that he had launched; exclusively and exquisitely political challenge. In this sense, many people in this House, and even today, have responded only with an insult to Renzi, unfortunately, as I said, to his family and also to many of us who, knowingly, but also convincedly, have joined his proposal. Sexist insults, those of yesterday, in front of which I have unfortunately witnessed a deafening silence on the subject; it has been said that women in difficulty once devoted themselves to prostitution, today women in difficulty become Renzian. This is a post from yesterday and too many have remained silent in front of these words. It would therefore be the time for a careful and common political reflection that obliges us to bring the confrontation back to the correct areas of political dialectic, recalling that today in many, almost all, we have gathered the invitation of President Mattarella to be united in order to take our country out of the crisis in which annaspa. It is useless to continue to recriminate, accuse and exploit any episode that then results in very heavy words interpreted clumsily by too many people. Even a short while ago I got a tweet from a person who, after what happened today, says that today's terrorists are certainly not the same as they used to be. Another says, "Let's cut off his head." This is the effect that causes the very heavy words that are said; words in freedom, spoken without knowing what is being done. But history goes on inexorably and we finally, all of us, who wants it, can be the protagonists of a moment that is definitely historical. Matteo Renzi has gone through a lot of other times and, while expressing all his solidarity, we know that he will be able to deal with this appalling episode. But enough insult at all costs, enough incitement to wrongdoing and hatred. We are in the same majority; let us confront ourselves civilly and honestly because history will judge everything and everyone. We act in the interest of the country, let's stop with this climate of hatred, which really is totally useless and can lead to much more serious episodes. Let's hope it's the last time! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u145	Senator Cucca, the Presidency has already expressed the position of the whole House, which is, moreover, committed, not today, also to draft laws against the hate speech, which is totally outside of anything that concerns politics.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u148	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, as is well known, a part of the cliff on which the Camogli cemetery is located is shattered on Monday 22 February. The collapse affected about 200 burials and 320 bodies. A few dozen coffins went into the sea. To the misfortune was added the horror of the destruction, by the seagulls, of the dead bodies fallen in the water. Unfortunately, after more than a week, not all bodies or their parts were recovered. I would like to stress here how man has always had the cult of burial, but in an era that, in many respects, is projected to raw materiality, we do not safeguard the places where life beats or, as in the case in question, the sacred ones of death. I fully agree with some of the excerpts from the letter that the Italian Geological Society sent to the President of the Council: Definitely professor, let us point out to you the event of Camogli as an alarm bell of a situation that is no longer negligible. Our inability to secure even our deaths has highlighted in the most dramatic way the problems of management and maintenance of our territory (...). In these years we have allowed our territory to age, without the essential and necessary care for its conservation. The territory has become fragile and unfortunately needs deep, incisive and certainly expensive interventions. The old age of our country is the cemetery of Camogli that falls into the sea, with its baggage of memory and pain, but it is also the inertia of politics, faced with the need for an effective and continuous planning of the maintenance of the territory (...). The alarm signal from Camogli tells us that it is time to go beyond emergencies (...). The costs for the redevelopment of our territory are an investment that we owe to future generations, so that the recovery plan can be the occasion to finally reverse the dynamics of the extraordinary intervention after the calamitous event, avoiding that the carelessness is again the cause of the trigger of dangers, that could turn into risks. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u149	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-302.ana.u150	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 4 March, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.13 p.m.
