ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:01 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2168. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all of us in this last year have been flooded with decree-laws. All the governments of this legislature have felt the strong need to improve the living conditions of the country, in particular by giving support to those who had less, so as to moderate a socio-economic imbalance that sees so many people not arrive at the end of the month. When a decree-law arrives, this just aspiration of every Member of Parliament, often supported by the suggestions of so many categories that are in difficulty, leads to a proliferation of amendments sometimes not congruent with the dictates of the provision. The President of the Commission, who is also rapporteur in this case, must follow these dictates with the inadmissibility that are then supervised by the presidency of the Senate. It is therefore regrettable to hear some talk of arbitrary inadmissibility and to hear criticisms of the opinions of the Budget Commission, which are members of all the majority political groups (which is now truly enlarged). Other amendments are rejected by the Government which, for various reasons, may consider them inappropriate and unsustainable. The decree-law under consideration deals with issues concerning territorial continuity with the major islands, the single circulation book and a ban of ideas to bring the great ships out of the lagoon of Venice. They are hot topics, because in the past decades our society has always supported the free market and, in the case of territorial continuity, both naval and aerial, we have seen that entrepreneurs rightly seek the gain, but, in critical times such as the current one, it cannot be realized and it is the State that must intervene supporting the private ones in order to guarantee the public service. It is clear that if there is no income, private individuals do not move, but it is also true that the State is not a cow to milk. In the case of Sardinia, Senator Floris highlighted the case of Air Italy, which did business, but which, when there was no economic sustainability, did not hesitate to leave hundreds of people without work. These are cases spread across the country. Entrepreneurs often take state subsidies to do business, but when earnings fail, they close or decentralise their business. It is clear that a balance, certainly difficult, must be found between these two requirements. The extension of the single circulation book has brought to the attention major problems relating to circulation, which have been greatly exacerbated by the pandemic. I refer, in particular, to the revisions and licences, with over 350,000 young people waiting for more than a year to get a licence, as well as the problems associated with nautical licences, trailers and agricultural vehicles. These issues are touched marginally by the decree-law, but they are of extreme urgency and the Government has transposed them, deciding to insert them into a forthcoming decree (which led to the withdrawal of numerous amendments), so that they can be implemented quickly. The theme of the great ships in the lagoon of Venice is an immense problem, because the great ships have a high draft and to adapt the backdrops have been excavated artificially various canals in order to reach both in the city center, and to the port of Marghera. The excavation of the channels changes the dynamics of the lagoon, underlying a precarious balance due to the changed dynamic conditions that have seen its birth and evolution. The passage of the larger ships generates more intense currents, which remove sediments, as we have been shown, on the edge of the oil canal. It is evident that erosion of sediments within the canals can lead to the scaling of the foundations of the buildings, with critical consequences for the stability of the latter. Again, it is necessary to strike a balance between the need to ensure the arrival of tourists, who constitute a lifeblood for the city's economy, and the preservation of the ecosystem. I believe that attention must be given from a long-term perspective. Political decisions are all too often linked to immediate consensus, while high flight and sustainability of an asset or ecosystem should be ensured. Senator De Falco, who criticized the Commission's decision when it was clear that his amendments, which asked to proceed with the evaluation of existing projects (in practice, only the latter-De Piccoli project), as has been pointed out in the Commission, even with written documents available to the Commissioners, would certainly have economic implications, and not of little account. I remember - to those who do not know the plan - that it is a port immediately outside the mouth of Lido, leaning on the north bank, that it has had a controversial iter. The project did not see a competition, it did not have public evidence and above all it provides preliminary amounts of about 140 million, with compensation exceeding 5 million euros; therefore it does not respect the rules of the contracts neither those European. He also had the opposite opinion of both the Venice Committee and the municipalities on which he insisted, including that of Venice. I share with De Falco that, however you move in Venice, you harm interests and open the crossfires to block this or that project. I believe, however, that Minister Giovannini - whom I thank for having identified Venice as one of the first issues to be addressed - did very well to ban a competition of ideas to find the solution. I remember that it was an initiative already taken by Minister Toninelli, who had led to the identification of three solutions outside the lagoon, but it was interrupted by the end of the Government Count I. Therefore, if the countervailable project is valid, it can be re-submitted following a transparent and crystalline process, which may eventually lead to its approval. Given the many interests, I agree perfectly with what Senator Margiotta has said, namely that for the competition of ideas it is essential to identify a jury made by very high profile professionals and not involved in the local context. Too often we have seen how Venice and the works to safeguard it have been at the center of evil and scams. I remember that, when we came to the Government of the 5 Star Movement, the Mose had not been completed, although only a 5% was missing for the completion of the work. Nowadays, perhaps alternative and less impacting solutions could be found on the ecosystem of the lagoon, but meanwhile Venice has been launched and protects from exceptional tides, provided that those in charge of decisions do so promptly. We would all like to see Venice full of tourists and without the big ships. We have heard some shipowners declare that going with the big ships out of the lagoon is not a problem, but they need certainties. I therefore trust that the solution that will be identified will certainly take account of everyone's needs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u6	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to thank the rapporteur, the Commissioners of the majority and the opposition, and the managers and officials who cooperated in a decree-law which, although it is true, was made up of only four articles, was necessary. In fact, I think that the important debate in the Commission and the production of non-obstructional, but merit-based, amendments that meet the real needs felt in the country, we have been able to enrich all of us in terms of skills and knowledge. I would like to point out that the extensions, when they have not been able to complete the process or to resolve the issues, are also an important tool in order not to aggravate the difficulties of the parties concerned. This is the work we've done. Many amendments have been tabled and agreed, but unfortunately they will not be discussed and they cannot be accepted, because many have been declared inadmissible. Those amendments, however, as I said before, have pointed out real needs, to which solutions must be given. Some have already been included in the decree-law that was launched by the Government, others will be discussed in a few minutes at the Council of Ministers and will be contained in the decree-law issuing. As for those who remain, I believe that we must work to ensure that there is a time to improve the provision in the House of Members and, in any case, we must work to find an instrument with which we can give satisfaction to the great work that has been done. Thanks again and good work to all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u8	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency declares the amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.2, 2.8 (text 2), 2.9, 2.10, 2.11, 2.0.1, 2.0.2, 2.0.3, 2.0.4, 2.0.5, 2.0.6, 2.0.7, 2.0.7, 2.0.8, 2.0.9, 2.0.10, 2.0.11, 2.0.12, 2.0.14, 2.0.15, 2.0.16, 2.0.17, 2.0.18, 2.0.18, 2.0.19, 2.0.20, 2.0.21, 2.0.21, 2.0.22, 2.0.23, 2.0.24, 2.0.24, 2.0.26, 2.0.27, 2.0.27, 2.0.1,028, 2.0.29, 2.0.30, 2.0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,35,0,0,0,0,36, 2.0,0,36, 2.0,0,7,0,0,38,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u9	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 1,100. I would also like to bring forward the opinion on the amendments and agendas relating to the subsequent articles of the decree-law in question. I am in favour of amendment 2.1 (text 3). On agendas G2.1 and G2.2 I return to the government. I call for the withdrawal of amendment G3.1, otherwise I am against it. I am in favour of Amendment 3,100. For reasons of regulatory coordination, given that the content of the proposed amendments 3.0.10 (already 3,29), 3.0.3 (text 2) and 3.0.4 (text 2), which introduce the additional article 3-a, is included in the decree-law extending the legislative deadlines, they are deemed to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u10	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. As regards agendas, I am in favour of the G2.2 agenda, while proposing the following rewording of the G2.1 agenda:
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u11	Senator Barboni, do you accept the proposed reformulation? BARBONI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u14	PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we ask Senator Barboni to be able to add to the agenda G2.1 (text 2) the signatures of the Senators of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group of the 8th Commission, so in addition to those of my colleagues Campari, Rufa and Corti.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u15	I see Senator Barboni agrees. As the deadline of 20 minutes has passed, we can proceed to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The G1.1 agenda and amendments 1.0.1 (text 3) and 1.0.2 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.1 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.3 to 2.7 have been withdrawn. Amendments 2.8 (text 2) to 2.11 are unacceptable. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.1 (text 2) and G2.2 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 2.0.2 to 2.0.53 cannot be proposed. Let us move on to Amendment 3.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u18	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, I would ask that it be put to the vote, because the amendment itself, which is different from what the rapporteur has said, cannot provoke or cause any cost. A cost would occur only after the possible approval of one of the projects (there is only one) that are present at this stage at an advanced stage. I have collected 15 signatures from my colleagues and I ask that it be put to the vote anyway, because the national interest has also been illustrated by Minister Franceschini and it is to have the ships removed as soon as possible from the Venetian lagoon. With Article 3, which is contained in Decree-Law No 45, we are not sure that ships are not there in a hundred years' time. Amendment 3.1, on the other hand, basically calls for at least the existing projects to be examined and not to throw away all the work that has been done, without even examining it. The examination does not involve spending: that is the point.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u19	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senators De Falco and Fattori. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.3 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.4 to 3.25 (text 2) and 3.0.10 have been withdrawn. Amendments 3.14 and 3.26 to 3.0.9 are unacceptable. The Coord.1 coordination proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u22	VONO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, when this decree-law concerning urgent measures in the matter of transports has arrived in the Commission and for the discipline of the crocieristico traffic and the marine transport of the goods in the lagoon of Venice, that we are about to convert to law... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u23	Let's wait a few seconds. If colleagues who are leaving the Chamber can do so quickly or quietly, I can give Senator Vono the floor again. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u24	VONO (IV-PSI). I was saying that, when this decree-law that we are about to convert came to the Commission, we thought it might be an opportunity for serious discussion of these issues and we discussed and worked to make sense of the proposed legislation. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u25	Colleagues, I tell you nothing, but kindly sit outside the Chamber. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u26	VONO (IV-PSI). I must say, however, that the fact that most of the amendments tabled and on which the majority of the Commissioners have also often been agreed (and I would like to reiterate that they were not flagship amendments for our political parties, but useful and necessary to the citizens and businesses who, confidently, had asked us to intervene) were declared as impossible, as rejected, because they were not respectful of the financial invariance, and which (few) remodulated, certainly did not give the final document the effectiveness that it could have had with their acceptance. Unfortunately - and I am referring to the President of the Commission - by re-reading the technical reports to some purely legal amendments, I have been able to point out - it is certainly my personal opinion, which I am expressing as Vice-President of the Commission in any case - that excessive and perhaps even questionable discretionary rigorism, which did not assess and take due account of the urgency determined by the period we are experiencing of a strong and aggravated economic crisis, making the decree-law insufficient in various respects, which we are not here to discuss, because they were well explained in the speeches of yesterday's general debate, which clearly highlighted its criticalities. However, we have been represented by the Government's work on an imminent decree which is the subject of today's Council of Ministers, which should cover almost exclusively extensions of certain terms which fall within the scope of the excluded amendments and which should therefore accommodate many of the remaining requests. These are - I repeat - demands made by citizens and businesses, of which we are the legitimate representatives, precisely on the basis of our constitutional democracy, considering - we are sure - that this new decree does not leave - as happened for today's one - only bitter in the mouth. Therefore, only on the basis of the trust confirmed to the Government Draghi and for the respect of the work carried out, during the examination of this decree-law, by the undersecretary Teresa Bellanova, always present in the Commission to give the right support, with collaboration and open confrontation, and of the work carried out by all the colleagues; trusting in the action and concrete of valid and fundamental interventions, in such an important and strategic field as that of the transport; and wishing that, out of the phase of the emergency measures, we parliamentarians and the Commission to which I belong can finally carry out in an exhaustive and incisive way our role as representatives of the citizens, but even more of legislators (which is our main function in Parliament, always and anyway); taking into account this confidence, I declare the favorable vote on behalf of Italia Viva - P.S.I. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u29	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, this decree-law was improperly called "Decree Venice." It does indeed touch on subjects of great practical importance: Article 1, which deals with the provisions on maritime links under public service arrangements with the major and minor islands, and Article 2, which contains urgent provisions and measures on the single movement document. In the discipline of the marine transport, in particular, the priority for Brothers of Italy is that the service of transport with Sardinia, Sicily and the Tremiti islands is guaranteed with continuity. These are links of national interest, the continuity of which is essential to guarantee the right to freedom of movement of citizens. This applies both to routes returned to the free market, as they are considered to be compatible with different maritime operators, and to those under public service arrangements, for which tendering procedures have begun. Mr President, it is precisely these procedures that concern us, because many operators believe that they contain clauses which may be challenged. We are afraid of the times and, above all, we fear that these circumstances will have an impact on the service offered to citizens. Brothers of Italy will be vigilant and attentive on these aspects. Running a territorial continuity service is not a political game to be exploited electorally; territorial continuity services are essential. We will be careful that the judiciary and the European Commission cannot slow down certain mechanisms, as has happened in the past, if they are to intervene. Indispensable is the attention we call for to the protection of labour and workers in the sector, already quite burdened by the crisis. Article 2, which refers to the extension of the single document, would have had to deal seriously with the emergency, involving a very high number of young people, who are unable to obtain within a reasonable time the driving licence necessary for work, the Driver Qualification Card (CQC) on all. It seems absurd, however unreasonable, that because of this problem, many companies that need workers with certain licences are not hiring. Many companies are looking for workers with higher licences and there are so many people who are physically unable to obtain the required certifications. There are, for example, companies involved in the collection of municipal waste, which we of Brothers of Italy have contacted and with which we have tried to interact, who ask to review all the legislation in force. We have been trying to ask the Commission for a few years now, but unfortunately, in connection with what authoritative colleagues from the majority have said, the role of the Commissions has deteriorated and the senators have not been able to operate as they would have liked. In particular, environmental hygiene companies face major difficulties in finding staff with higher licences. Compared to 2010, applicants for a C licence have been reduced by as much as 48 per cent, for a number of factors (high costs, very low percentage of candidates who pass the exam and very long time to achieve). We have proposed in an amendment, only for vehicles to be used for the urban collection service, to extend the possibility of driving these mass vehicles at the end not exceeding seven tons to holders of B licences, in order to encourage a revival of the economy, in order to allow these companies in some way to be able to hire more easily at a time of great crisis. We were told that this amendment was not acceptable, as if it were acceptable for the State to paralyze the job offer at such a critical time for our economy. Then there are incredible cases of so many citizens who pay money to the Ministry to support two exams (quiz and guide) to be carried out within six months and that, due to the closure of the government and the lack of personnel now endemic in motorizations, cannot conclude in time the six-monthly route planned. So they sign up, but the state unfortunately doesn't put them in a position to take the exam and even lose the money. The chaos of motorization - we know very well that the offices in charge cannot even dispose of the arrears - is at the limit of the scandal. We would have liked to help put some order in the chaos, but emptying our role in the Commissions did not objectively allow us to do so. Finally, compared to article 3 in which we talk about Venice, the words of a poet would suffice to explain our position: " (...) the stars fade with envy when seeing the songs of Venice emerge from the fog." This beauty must be preserved and it would have been easy to do so. They do not serve a contest, great advertising initiatives, just move in definitive way, as we have proposed also on the basis of authoritative studies, the crocieristico traffic to the Port of Marghera, enough to defend the history, the identity and the characteristics that make Venice one of the most beautiful, unforgettable and visited cities of all the Planet. We wanted to give more. In part, some of our ideas, some of our advice has been accepted and some of our amendments included in the decree that will come, so our will be a responsible abstention, although, I repeat, we would have liked to give more. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u32	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party is fully aware that the pandemic has affected all sectors of the economy, public administrations, has slowed down the authorisation process and, therefore, it would have been absolutely unthinkable and irresponsible not to acknowledge that, even for transport issues, this was not happening. As a result, with this government measure we are showing sensitivity to this sector. All the extensions envisaged, in particular Articles 1 and 2, go exactly in this direction. The extension on the services of marine continuity with Sardinia, with Sicily, with the Tremiti islands, but also the single document of programming in order to facilitate the digitalization operation, also as a result of the acceleration of recovery fund and PNRR, can find a valid support and continuity. President, of course, let us not deny that a substantial part of the decree-law is focused on the great ships in Venice, which is a long-standing issue. Venice is the city of all. When we talk about Venice, we all feel Venetian, not only who, like myself, was born and resides in that wonderful reality, but all the inhabitants of the world. Not surprisingly, when a pin falls in Venice, UNESCO committees, environmental committees, entrepreneurs from all over the world, the Washington Post, and so on speak. This recounts the sensitivity and extraordinaryness of this city, but also the difficulty in its management and its government. Those who ruled that city realize precisely what it means to govern complexity. President, I believe that the Government and Parliament have the task of listening to everyone and then deciding. We must listen to the environmental committees, which have historically fought the most noble battles for the protection of Venice and its lagoon, but also the categories and various worlds of the economy, that through the port have generated, generate and must continue to generate work also in the coming years. But politics must not be just an interest. Here we must not represent the committee's decision or the legitimate interest of the individual category. Politics has the task of making the best synthesis within this complexity. Mr President, we believe that the decision must move within two polarities, in our opinion, which are indispensable. The first is that Venice without a port cannot even be imagined. Venice was born with its port; Venice has always lived the Adriatic, that arm of sea of the Mediterranean, not as a defense or as a separation, but as a bridge not only of trade. The Serenissima was not only queen of commerce, but also of politics, relations, culture and made of the difference her own wealth. He was so aware of the greatness of his identity that he could allow himself to dialogue with different cultures. It has also built its identity through the diversity of these cultures because Venice has welcomed, as I have already had the opportunity to reiterate in this House, cultures and worlds often even minorities that were hunted out like the Greek Orthodox, Armenians and Jews. He lived them as wealth and as part of his identity. When we talk about Venice, let's talk about the example for the future of what our nation must be. It is Europe's bridge to the policies of the Mediterranean, North Africa and the Middle East. Let's talk about this when we talk about Venice. The port has always been, therefore, the opportunity of confrontation, dialogue, wealth and transmission. It is not possible to imagine Venice today without its own port. This is the first central element. The port is quintessential element to the identity of Venice. However, we are also faced with another phenomenon. I am referring to naval giganticism, which has never been in the history of the Serenissima. Now we are in presence of ships with tonnage of 150.000 tons, with length that exceeds 350 meters. We know, because we must first be correct in this House, that ships with a gross tonnage of more than 96 000 tonnes cannot enter the lagoon today. I want, however, also to remember the episodes of the ship that caused, in 2019, that incident that was shown to the whole world, in the dock of San Basilio, and the ship that was going against Riva dei Sette Martiri. You remember the images of this ship, that it was almost going against the dock and that it was blocked by a tugboat that, smoking at full power, just inserted, managed to move and to avoid the disaster. Those ships were inside the 96,000 tons, but they were 292 meters: therefore, real skyscrapers, which still enter our lagoon today. It follows that naval gigantism is not acceptable in our lagoon, because it goes against its own identity. We are not saying anything entirely innovative, because the PAT, the plan of the territorial planning voted by the City of Venice and the municipal administration of Venice in 2012, already defines the concept of the base of class Venice for the ships, saying that those compatible with the ecosystem must enter the lagoon. But the ecosystem is also the economic ecosystem, because if we do not seriously consider this issue we create the best alibi for those who simply want to close the port. If, instead, we realize a sustainable port, as the new concept of sustainability requires, we create also the conditions of economic development of the port. Well, what does this decree establish? It says that ships above a certain size must go out of the lagoon and establish, therefore, time and mode, in accordance with the terms of the contract code. But then, Mr President, to be clear, we must also manage the transition. If we cannot say, in fact, that we are changing from today to tomorrow, we cannot even afford to say that the ships will continue, as unfortunately they do, to pass through the basin of San Marco. This, in fact, is happening and will also happen in the coming months. This transition must therefore be managed absolutely. Mr President, as a parliamentary group we have tabled amendments, as the undersecretary here is well aware, which were, in my opinion, improvements. After that, we know that this is a very broad coalition. The Leader in the Commission, Senator Margiotta, has worked very cleverly within the Commission, but it is clear that the balance must be found. The basic principle of our amendments, however, we want to reiterate, because they are absolutely improvements. Return to the Venice class of which before, because not enough the tonnage, but we must also talk about displacement. The great ships, in fact, when they pass, they move the waters, they go to the foundations of the palaces. We must also talk about the type of fuels used and the quantity of sulphur. Here too nothing new, because a programme agreement has long been signed between the port authority and local authorities in this direction. We wanted to be recognized at the level of the decree and we wanted to vote for it in the Environment Commission. So that remains a milestone for future policies and decisions. After that, we wanted proper time, because when we say race, contest ideas, we have to do quickly, because we can no longer make fun of each other. We must go to check immediately the possibility of carrying out these works. Finally, the evaluating commission must be of high profile, because Venice is Venice, because the lagoon is the lagoon. We therefore call on the Government, within the decree, to take this decision, in our opinion, which has already been taken up by the Environment Commission. Finally, of course, no to the digging of new channels. The Vittorio Emanuele channel was discussed in the Commission. We found a right balance because certainly the opening of the new channel Vittorio Emanuele, closed in fact for a long time after the opening of the oil canal, would have opened, yes, a wound in the lagoon and, honestly, would have caused damage. However, we have voted unanimously on this. So, Mr President, let us move forward because the good of Venice is also the good of the nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u35	Mr Berutti (Misto-IeC). Mr President, the decree we are about to convert represented, within the framework of the process in the Commission, a certainly profitable opportunity for listening to professionals, operators and organisations in the sector, who have, as always, given a qualified and significant contribution to enable us to integrate and improve intervention. In this sense, the work in the Commission has certainly been articulated and we have shared with our colleagues that the topic of transport, and more generally of infrastructure and sustainable mobility, is confirmed as crucial for the present and for the future of the country. In this regard, a reflection must be made: many amendments have been tabled, naturally shared by several political forces, therefore with a strong convergence, but all this has not substantially allowed them to be implemented and I believe that this is the first reflection that needs to be done with the Government. In fact, if the role of the Assembly and the Commissions is an important role of direction and constructive contribution, we must somehow find a way to try, quickly, to collect and at least re-address the problems that have not been included in this decree-law. If we look only at the content of the measure, in fact, even at the outcome of the amendment phase, we cannot deny that we would have wanted to do more both for the issues related to the pandemic and in general for other aspects not irrelevant at all. In fact, therefore, on two articles we moved only on extensions, therefore important but not substantial, while on Article 3, where we have dealt with the issue of Venice, a very important reflection must be made. Venice is a world heritage of humanity and therefore I believe that the acceleration and action of the decree towards a competition of ideas are fundamental elements and in this case convergence is crucial and indispensable. It has been said by some colleagues in one of the interventions that must be done a fast action and of the highest level, because we cannot forget that the element of safety and environmental still has to find a balance with the tourist element, economic and therefore with all the system Venice and with everything revolves around you, that is the issues of Marghera or the offshore port. From the competition of ideas, of course, important proposals will come; what is important is that they can be analysed by professionals of an absolute level. I believe that this can be another emblem of the great ability of this country to find important and above all satisfactory solutions in the balance of the various situations. As I said, certainly not being satisfied, because we also had to take steps backwards in relation to these reflections, we cannot deny that, where the measure intervenes, it is certainly useful. I believe that the speed and pragmatism with which we will add to this other interventions, starting obviously from the PNRR, will determine the effectiveness of a more complete and useful action to the country, an action that allows to keep together, in a virtuous and sustainable way, economy, tourism, safeguarding cultural assets and growth; elements that must be countered with pragmatism and concreteness. I am convinced that even here Italy will show, once again, that it is up to it. In the light of all this, we shall vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u38	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we have managed with the House almost deserted to have silence; this is fundamental. Yesterday Mr Paroli, but also Mr Floris, made a split of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 45, which we are about to approve today. I have been a local administrator for so many years and whenever I wanted or someone wanted to prevent things from happening, two things were decided: either to set up a nice table, a nice committee to discuss it or to bring together a group of experts who began to study for the future of that measure, that topic or that project. When you want to procrastinate over time, that's what you usually do. Seeing it written at the first point of the decree-law a little worried me. The Commission has made recommendations; I want to thank Mauro Coltorti, our President and, of course, Mr Bellanova. I believe that we have all done a great job together, within the limits of the possibilities and the opportunity we have had to bring forward proposals which the Groups rightly considered to be better than the measure under consideration. The final solution was that unfortunately many of these proposals have been missed, as they cannot be proposed under Article 81 of the Constitution, laid down by the Budget Commission, for which I agree enough with Senator Coltorti's words; there is no criminalisation against his work, there would be no more. Moreover, it is the filter committee provided for in the Rules of Procedure. However, it must also be borne in mind that the substantive committees can sometimes decide to take decisions that the budget Commission should in some way take into account because content, regardless of the budgetary aspect that is essential, is essential for an answer that the citizen and the system want to carry out. The measure before us concerns three subjects. The Italian shipping company (CIN); you know that there is also the question of the agreement in white, there is a whole problem about it. Today we take the responsibility of procrastinating and putting money back inside it; procrastinating means in fact increasing the period of work and therefore the resources on the part of the State, that - it is clear - are small compared to the tragic situation in which the Company is placed. Several times I have tried, even personally, as a Member of the Republic, to explain the necessity that this company if it wants to move forward, must look around, trying to widen also the corporate base and reasoning for an implementation of the liquidity, which is absent. I address President Coltorti and Deputy Minister Bellanova; this is a matter that we will have to face together seriously to try to understand what future to give to thousands of people. Yesterday, my colleague, Mr Floris, gave an exact and extremely worrying picture of the situation and the connection with the islands. I also believe that the Single Movement Document is an essential element. We have also tried to deal with the issue of speeding up the issue of driving licences and pink sheets by means of amendments. The situation, Deputy Minister, is worrying there are even different ways in 100 Italian Provinces in dealing with the question of who first makes the examination compared to the number of pink sheets, that the small and large agencies that deal with these issues bring to the attention of the motorization of the Province. There are some that benefit the large number and others that benefit the small; in my opinion we must give a line and I am convinced that we could also find a solution. The most political theme of the decree-law is Venice, one of the most delicate topics to address. I must say that I am also a little satisfied with the statement made by President Coltorti: the Mose protects Venice. I loved it and I repeat: the Mose protects Venice. [[Applause]] I liked it because in this legislature I replace a great person who has always put his face on Mose and spent it: he was his predecessor at the head of the Committee on Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Altero Matteoli [[Applause]] I do not know how many times for a choice of this kind. If Venice is saved today - I heard a very singular description of Mose's activity yesterday - it's because Mose works and because that government decided to make that kind of choice. Even the anthropization of Venice was the element that built that city: if today there is Venice, it is because someone realized it; if today there is Venice, it is because someone dug the canals and because someone made it an important city from a commercial point of view. I want to remember that being a maritime republic at the time did not mean: we wait for tourists from Pisa or Genoa to arrive. At the time there was no hotel Danieli rather than the Monaco & Grand Canal, or other important accommodations that awaited tourists or restaurants such as the Do Forni for lunch or dinner. I do not have this memory of the history of the foundation of the city of Venice. I think this memory doesn't even have 13,000 marghera port workers. If we want to get rid of commercial ships, passenger ships, ports, refineries and anything else, we do everything somewhere (we don't know exactly where), and maybe we give 13,000 people the income of citizenship: we solved the problem. [[Applause]] So we are in place and we have done also the ulterior operation: we kill the second, third or fourth - depending on the types of product used there - Italian port; we kill the history of Italy with the commercial Venice; we slaughter the industrial perspective of the Italian North-East; we close everything and everyone at home because we will all be public employees, we will work all in the school, we will work all in the palaces of power. There is one thing that perhaps escapes: there would also be companies in Italy. [[Applause]] They are companies that work, that produce, that transport, that give a perspective. We are aware that ships should not pass through the canal of Giudecca, obviously, because sooner or later someone will enter St. Mark's Square without even knocking: this seems quite obvious to me. But it is equally clear that if they do not pass through there, they will have to find a way to get them through somewhere else. [[Applause]] It is not that to solve we can close, put a barrier and say: forbidden entry. [[Applause]] That sounds crazy. We shall be vigilant on this. I have heard that Mr Ruspandini will also be vigilant, and I am pleased, because he always makes a great contribution to the Commission. We will be vigilant and active as part of this Government because we would like that Commission, that working group, not to go down for four or five years. On the contrary, we must talk about weeks here: we must ensure that the Government grants, through the Minister, the Deputy Minister and all the political organization that this majority supports, daily or weekly objectives. [[Applause]] , because we want answers now. This morning we withdrew Amendment 3.0.4, which is in the legislative decree. And I thank the Undersecretary Bellanova, with whom we always work very well - I bear witness to this - even when I was in opposition and you were Minister for Agriculture. We are aware of the choice we are going to make. We support this measure (we have voted for the amendments and we will vote for it), but we must stay on track, because we are only at the start of the enormous work to be done. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u41	Campari (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Bellanova and join this chorus of gratitude for the excellent work we have done. I would like to thank the Commissioners, fellow adventurers, colleagues and colleagues. It could have been an opportunity because it was, theoretically, the transport decree, which could have been ambitious, but that was only in the title because it first addressed transport and, then, the issue of Venice. Unfortunately, the scope of the measure was too narrow and was seen from the outset. In the Commission, with a job well done in my opinion, we have tried to intervene by tabling amendments by the various political forces in order to provide more material, to fill the measure and to give a little pulp, but not an end in itself. In this area, citizens are waiting for answers and solutions to problems that live on their own every day. The measure could therefore have been a good opportunity, but the ax of inadmissibility has fallen, some honestly (although strictly respecting the criteria of Commission 5a, before, and the presidency of the Senate, after) in my opinion a little difficult to understand. For example, since the measure deals with registration and revision issues, it is very difficult to understand why the amendments to the extension of the single movement document were found inadmissible on the ground. In so doing, we reject the possibility of tabling additional amendments, because we are simply making minor corrections to the text that has been tabled. We often complain that Parliament has lost some strength and is often exonerated, as we have said many times in this House too. However, I would not like us to be among the first to be responsible for this. Of the three powers, the legislative is the one placed a bit at the corner, although we are directly elected by the people and represent them. Perhaps - I repeat - this also happens because of guilt. The executive power acts, fortunately, but we have seen that when we are looking at the decree-laws there are very few possibilities to intervene; the judiciary often takes the space that we leave. This is a problem that we will have to deal with sooner or later. The promise that has been made to us is that part of the work carried out will be absorbed in the decree that will be before the Council of Ministers in the next few days. I would once again like to thank Mr Bellanova, who has undertaken to include in the next measure certain measures such as the extension for the examination of licences (including the amendment by Senator Pergreffi), cabotage (which was dealt with in an amendment by Senator Rufa) and various issues contained in other amendments. Therefore, on trust, we have agreed to withdraw some amendments and we await the adoption of this decree-law. What remains is what is in the measure, four articles, the first of which has links with the islands. Objectively the islanders risked to see themselves deprived of their right to be connected with the Continent for the delays that there were on the part of those who were to ban the races in time, and did not do so in due time. Now, we have put on a small piece and we hope that, within a few weeks, we will arrive at the conclusion of the races so that we can guarantee the rights of everyone in a continuous way. We were talking about the Single Movement Document (DUC). So far we have heard in an explanation of vote only about Venice, but in reality we could deal with many issues in this decree-law. The DUC is an extension requested by so many associations that the League has strongly wanted, and in this case too I thank for the decisive contribution the Undersecretary Morelli, who has spent a lot on this extension and who wanted the involvement of professional associations, always for the benefit of consumers, customers. Then there has been talk - and I cannot help but make a brief passage - of the part that concerns Venice, a city in clear suffering; a city that has recently been protected by Mose, a work that someone did not want, let's always remember it. Venice is a city that has suffered a significant negative impact, like all Italy and perhaps, in some cases, even more than other parts of Italy, because the Covid with tourism nothing "accepts us"; indeed, a city that lives purely of tourism has been seen deprived of this important economic income. A city that sees a demographic decline, as we said yesterday: from 150,000 to 50,000 people in a few decades. A city that has difficulty in traveling and that also has the problem of large ships. It is obvious that the great ships must be removed from St. Mark's Square - this is quite obvious - but we must also ask ourselves what Venice must live at this point. Do we want tourists in Venice or not? It is a criminal that we must bear in mind; we cannot fail to ask ourselves this question. So we have to find a solution by evaluating all ideas, without preconceptions, going to choose the best one for the city. I would ask all of us - and I am going to put it there - to take an example from this, which I consider to be a missed opportunity - and I say this quite clearly - to make a commitment to tackle the actual problems that we are facing today in transport. I would like to draw your attention to the issue of driving licences. Hundreds of thousands of 18 - year - old boys today have to take a driver's license test. They have already been deprived of the Covid of so many months of their youth and still have to suffer a problem like this. As if that weren't enough, beyond the lack of sociality they have endured in this long year, they can't even get a driver's license. Again, let's take the commitment to help the operators in the field of traveling shows, forgotten all this time. [[Applause.]] Let us finally resolve the problem of the revision of heavy goods vehicles. We had reached the agreement of the whole Commission, with an amendment signed by everyone. We've been trying to put him in a position for three years and approve a primary standard. We could have done so, but this morning the amendment was declared inadmissible. Let's talk about the personnel of the motorizations, which is missing; the rules for the use of the test plate; of the nautical licenses; of a serious incentive for the renewal of the fleet motor vehicles. We are going to solve the problem of out-of-dressing, i.e., basically, frontier workers. Citizens expect us to solve these problems. The one under review is a small decree-law, we did something minimal. I want to hope and believe that we will soon do something a little more important for the sector. Of course, the League can only vote in favour of this path. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u44	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Mr President, we are talking about a measure which, at first sight, is small and thin, because it consists of a few articles, but in fact they express a high content. In fact, we are talking, first of all, about maritime continuity for the islands, such as Sardinia, Sicily and Tremiti. It is an indispensable service for the islanders, which for the 5 Star Movement is a guarantee of the right of mobility, both for people and for goods. It is necessary to discuss it today, in order to avoid interruptions of the service of marine continuity. It is a small extension, which in fact will allow to conclude the procedures already banned for the concession and that gives guarantee of the services of marine continuity for our islands, minor and greater. We are also talking about the single document for circulation and, again, the need for an extension of time so that the passage of the telematic procedures for its release can be completed. This is a simplification tool, which combines registration and transfer of ownership procedures. The 5 Star Movement welcomes the telematic simplification procedures. But what I would like to recommend in this House today to the Government is the need for a more assiduous and loyal intercourse with the organisations most representative of the companies that carry out consultancy activities for the movement of means of transport. They are the main players in this telematic process, which have represented to us Members of Parliament, in the Commission, the need for greater involvement in the operational aspects, which are then essentially put back to them and their mediation. This is an accurate recommendation that the Movimento 5 Star Group wants to highlight today. Finally, we talk about the Venice lagoon and the need to preserve and protect that fantastic ecosystem in its entirety. The decree-law finally establishes the start of a trial, which was defined, in 2012, through a ministerial decree, the so-called decree Clini-Passera, and which sanctioned the removal of the passage of the great ships from the channel of San Marco. Allow me to say that the decree-law in question today does much more and, in fact, previews the identification of points of berth outside from the waters of the lagoon, for the ships of tonnage greater than 40.000 tons, therefore the great ships. This means that you go beyond the 78 gates of the Mose and you go away from Marghera. From today begins a process of elimination of the great ships from the lagoon and this makes us confident that the path will go to good end. Mr President, the lagoon must be placed in a position to maintain that very delicate and sensitive balance which characterizes it and, therefore, man and politics have a precise duty to protect this lagoon balance, in order to protect the lagoon itself. The same excavations and dredging operations of the canals must have as priority the restoration of the original morphology of the lagoon, that already suffers negatively from the effects of the waters of the sea, that enter through the mouths of port, in the channel of the oil. Colleagues, the climate emergency that we are experiencing, with the rise of marine waters, with the phenomenon of coastal erosion and with all its catastrophic effects, cannot and must not leave us indifferent. Just as we cannot and must not remain impassive in the face of the critical environmental and landscape, relating to a unique heritage in the world, such as the one jealously guarded in Venice. Some colleagues of other political forces have argued the topic, highlighting the essentiality of the economic aspect deriving from the crocieristico tourist induct on Venice. That is very true, but I wonder how far the environmental aspect can give way to that of economic protection; how far an economy can continue to exist where nature suffers abuse. What we expect is the achievement of a fair balance between these two aspects; otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, where nature perishes, the economic induced dies. The 5 Star Movement will therefore vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u45	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion into law, with modifications, of the decree-law 1 April 2021, n. 45, with urgent measures in the matter of transports and for the discipline of the crocieristico traffic and the marine transport of the goods in the lagoon of Venice". (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11:22 a.m. and resumed at 15:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u46	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Minister for Labour and Social Policy will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Pinotti has the right to explain question 3-02467 on the guarantee of human rights in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of international troops for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u47	Minister, the withdrawal of NATO and the United States of Afghanistan is now imminent. It is a mission to which Italy has contributed since the beginning, and therefore since 2001. After the attack on the Twin Towers for the first time Article 5 of the NATO Treaty was used, according to which, when a country of the Alliance is hit, the other countries are also called to intervene. The aim was to combat the terrorism of al Qaeda. We participated with important roles in the chain of command of the mission and we immediately had, as soon as the country was settled, the responsibility of the PRT of Herat, that is, of the west region. It was a very demanding mission, which lasted 20 years, in a very complicated and dangerous context. Fifty-five Italians, of whom fifty-three were military, died there, on Afghan soil: a sacrifice and a very high price that we must not forget. The Minister of Defence had the opportunity to state that our objective is to maintain the results achieved so far, which I am sure you agree with. Among the achievements there has undoubtedly been an improvement in the living conditions of women. In the Taliban regime the girls did not go to school and not many children; only 900,000 Afghan children went to school. Now it's 9 million, of which 3.5 million girls. About 40% of women and girls in the Herat area have enrolled in university; this area has been under our responsibility and is the one in which girls' schooling is highest. The Afghan electoral law immediately provided that 25% of women should be elected to the new Parliament and, with all the difficulties of the situation, in a very complicated territory, women have gradually acquired a role in social, economic, political and media life. Steps have been taken, in a situation that - I repeat - is still very complicated, with the brides girls and with the stonings. I have met sometimes the representatives of Afghan women, very lucid and courageous women, whose concern, at the time when the international contingent will leave, is that everything will return as before. Negotiations have long been under way between representatives of the U.S. Government and the Afghan Government, the Taliban, but so far commitments written in a very clear way on this have not been made. I ask you, Minister, for the sacrifice made by our country and for the very important role we have played, to make our voice heard loudly in order to obtain that what has been won over twenty years should not be lost. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u48	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u49	Madam President, I thank Senator Pinotti. Afghanistan is now at a crucial juncture in its history. To restore stability to the country and create the conditions for national reconciliation are objectives for which a window has opened for the first time. This course, certainly complex, will have to allow to preserve the fundamental progress made over the years by the country, also thanks to Italy - as the mystery senator said - especially in the protection of the rights of women, children and minorities. This is an essential aspect for us, as I also pointed out to the NATO ministerial on 14 April. A new generation of Afghan citizens and citizens, who have grown up over the last twenty years, want a future in which human rights and fundamental freedoms are respected. Their voices deserve to be heard in the negotiations. Their role in society must be protected after the conclusion of the peace agreement. Last month, in the debate on Afghanistan at the UN Security Council, we expressed the hope that the United Nations could play a leading role in the intra-Afghan peace negotiations. This would provide further reassurance on the issue of gender equality in future developments in the process. Our country has since the beginning inspired its action in Afghanistan to these principles. Over the last two decades, with careful monitoring of respect for human rights, we have, together with partners and allies, exerted diplomatic pressure on local authorities to lead them to more vigorous initiatives in this crucial area. The Italian Development Cooperation Agency has funded projects to promote gender equality and reproductive health, to develop women's micro-entrepreneurship, to prevent and combat gender and sexual violence, and to reduce maternal and child mortality. Our cooperation projects will continue. At the most recent session of the UN Human Rights Council of the Universal Periodic Review, Italy addressed specific recommendations on women's and children's rights to the Kabul authorities. The gender dimension and respect for fundamental rights have also been cross-cutting issues of our commitment to support and train Afghanistan's armed and police forces. In the Italian-led headquarters of Herat, the figure of the commander's adviser for gender issues was introduced, for the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1325, which calls for the increased participation of women and the integration of gender perspectives into the efforts of the United Nations in the field of peace and security. In view of the conclusion of the "Resolute Support" mission, the Ministry of Defence has ensured its willingness to explore immediately forms of collaboration with the Afghan authorities in order to continue, where possible, these activities and for this I would like to thank the Minister of Defence Lorenzo Guerini. In conclusion, the role of Italy and its allies in Afghanistan will not end with the NATO mission. We will remain committed to monitoring and implementing any appropriate action to ensure that the next steps in the intra-Afghan peace negotiations focus on the political and social achievements of the last two decades, starting with the rights of women and ethnic-religious minorities. We will do everything in our power to enable Afghanistan to return to growth in a democratic and peaceful climate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u50	Senator Pinotti has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u51	Mr President, Minister, your words have been clear and challenging. You said that Afghanistan is at a crucial juncture in your history and I think that, because of the role we have had and because of the bonds of deep friendship that that people feel towards us, we must be fully committed not to leave them alone, not to go back. He recalled that we have formed a significant part of Afghanistan's Armed Forces and Police Forces. Many women are part of it and have remembered our work. Think that in the province of Herat we built together with cooperation a camp, a women's prison, which would seem a bad thing, but for Afghan women beaten, tortured and raped and for the girls who escaped from marriages was, instead, a refuge; a sort of house for mistreated women and not a women's prison. It is also important that the Afghan Constitution that has been written should not be distorted and modified. I remember that there was still an attempt with Karzai to integrate Sharia into the Constitution. The women elected have called all the ambassadors of the countries of the international coalition complaining and denouncing this fact and, thanks to the pressure exerted, it has stopped. We have to do the same thing and help them, as we did at the time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u52	Senator Saccone has the right to explain the question 3-02473 on critical issues in support of Palestinian refugees, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u53	Mr President, Minister, we have shared and signed the question with our Parent Company, Senator Bernini, and Senators Malan and Aimi. As you well know, Italy has raised to a constitutional rank the promotion of international bodies aimed at promoting peace and harmony among nations. Considering that the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees (UNRWA) has among its aims the support and promotion of initiatives in favour of Palestinian refugees; also considered that the Italian Government has recently increased the initial Fund for the United Nations Agency itself to an amount of two million euros, thus reaching the amount allocated by our country almost 20 million euros; since, among the praiseworthy initiatives put in place by the Agency, there is also the dissemination of teaching and training; also seen, among these initiatives there is the publication of school material distributed among Palestinian students, we have learned with astonishment that among these publications there are many that contemplate hatred of Israel and enhance jihad, as also evidenced in recent days by an article on the formiche.net website. Minister, we ask you whether you are aware of this and, if so, what measures you have taken or intend to take to prevent the spread of hatred among the younger Palestinian generations, thanks, moreover, also to the funds allocated by our Government. Furthermore, we want to know the monitoring methods that our country, as a member of the UNRWA Advisory Commission, is putting in place so that we no longer have to repeat such a circumstance that - as you will certainly be able to certify - is in clear violation of the fundamental principles contained in our Constitutional Charter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u54	Mr President, Senator Saccone, interrogating senators, senators and senators, I would like to stress that the Palestinian issue is one of the longest and most painful humanitarian crises in recent history with over 5 million refugees. It is in this perspective that the contribution of Italian cooperation to the United Nations Agency for the Relief and Employment of Palestinian Refugees in the Near East, which operates in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, is included. These are priority areas for Italy, all the more so in a phase made even more dramatic by the pandemic and the consequent restrictions on the international movement of humanitarian goods and personnel. I come to the specific question. On the subject of textbooks used in schools managed by the UN Palestinian Refugee Agency, a theme raised by reports published by Impact-SE, a non-profit organisation based in Israel, I would like to ensure that the Government follows this issue with particular attention, including in the framework of the dialogue between the Agency and donors. As a member of the Consultative Commission of the Agency, Italy participates, through the Consulate General in Jerusalem, in the various coordination and monitoring meetings of the initiatives. During the last meetings the Agency provided precise clarifications precisely in response to the request for maximum transparency made by donors, including Italy, on this matter. In a first document last January, the Impact-SE had, in fact, criticized the messages, deemed not in line with the values of the United Nations, and the contents of the materials used in schools managed by the UN Agency for Online Teaching in the period February-November 2020. The Agency's summit replied by letter to the members of the Consultative Commission. In his letter, the Commissioner-General pointed out that the Agency used an internal system for the permanent revision of school materials. As a result of the review, the Agency had decided to remove the teaching materials that were actually not in line with UN standards. Later, in February, Impact-SE published a second report pointing the finger at the self-learning materials used in the period November 2020 to January 2021. In order to leave no doubt about the policy of zero tolerance for any act of discrimination and incitement to violence, the Agency responded to this second report by suspending as a precautionary measure the platform then used, containing the teaching materials in question in order to ensure a further in-depth examination by a neutral evaluation body, specially created. On 19 April, during a meeting with the members of the Consultative Commission, in which Italy participated, the Agency announced the conclusion of the review process and the decision to adopt a new platform for self-learning materials. Also thanks to this platform, from now on, any online material used in schools run by the United Nations, where the mode of distance teaching is still prevalent, will have to pass an even more stringent evaluation, which will personally participate managers of the Agency at the highest level. That is the commitment made. Farnesina, also through the Consulate General of Italy in Jerusalem, will continue to exercise a supervisory role over the initiatives of the UN Agency for Palestinian Refugees, in order to prevent any disagreement between the activities financed and the key principles of Italian cooperation, such as non-discrimination and support for peaceful coexistence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u55	Senator Saccone has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u56	Mr President, I thank the Minister. Allow me to say straight away that I am satisfied with your reply. This is not the place to open a debate on the reasons for the 5 million refugees; this is not the place to say that there are rockets leaving Gaza. This is not the time. We have expressed our appreciation for the Agency's work in support of refugees. I'm happy with the monitoring, which will be capillary. We, as Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC, want to monitor constantly, we do not want to lower our guard, because the intention is not discriminatory, but it is to reaffirm zero tolerance towards hatred, from whoever it comes from. Therefore, thank you, Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u57	Senator Carbone has the right to explain question 3-02471 on the end of the redundancies and on initiatives to support the labour market, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u58	Mr President, Minister, among the main and most important measures taken to deal with the Covid-19 emergency, the so-called blockade of dismissals has taken on a major role since the beginning of 2020. This measure was intended to prevent companies from firing their employees for economic reasons, both in collective form and in individual form. The goal of the then Conte-A Government was to prevent the most serious consequences of the emergency from being placed on the working classes, thus transforming a health crisis and an economic crisis into a social crisis. On the other hand, there have been many regulatory interventions that have allowed the use of social shock absorbers, such as the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni (CIG) and the Pay Integration Fund (FIS), especially in order to support companies that have suffered most from the decrease in the demand for goods and services and, in particular, those companies active in crucial sectors, such as tourism and catering. The so-called support decree provided for the termination of the dismissals, with regard to the type of social shock absorber used. On 30 June, in fact, the block for the companies that benefit from the ordinary IGC ends; mostly the companies in the industrial sector. On 31 October, on the other hand, it is the deadline for the closure of the redundancies of the beneficiaries of the 28 weeks of the ordinary allowance paid by the FIS or by way of derogation from the supplementary fund. Minister, it is learned from your recent interviews that the Government's intention would be to prepare adjustments to the regulations to support the overcoming of the blockage of redundancies with instruments that take into account the different trends in the sectors. All this said, I would like to ask you what urgent initiatives you intend to promote in order to relaunch the active policies of the work of our country, also in order to avoid the risks of immediate and serious occupational repercussions resulting from the end of the block of redundancies; and then what initiatives you want to take to promote the reintegration and the raising of employment levels, also in the light of the poor results achieved in recent years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u59	I thank the interrogating senators. With the extension of the extraordinary treatment of wage integration and the simultaneous blocking of dismissals and the identification of additional income support tools for those who had not been able to achieve with previous interventions, the Government has intended to ensure a protection network as inclusive and fair as possible, which would embarrass the devastating impact of the pandemic, in continuity - I believe - with some choices previously taken. Since my establishment, I have tried to combine the extraordinary measures for the protection of workers with the launch of two structural reforms that I consider to be a priority: social shock absorbers and active policies. We must give shock absorbers to millions of workers who do not have them today. And we need to act on the basic skills of workers farthest from the labour market and provide more advanced training for those more skilled workers who could, however, be in a transition situation in the coming months and will need to be accompanied by relocation. This is also because many indicators tell us that it is not said that the recovery will reproduce the jobs that have been determined in the same areas where they have failed. I believe it is essential to adopt an organic vision, which encompasses all these initiatives in one intervention, thus accompanying the transformation of the labour market and facilitating employment transitions; improving the employability of workers and raising the level of protection through training. We therefore aim at a package of appropriate measures to combat the phenomenon of youth unemployment, acting on the whole path that from welfare measures can lead to work, that is to say to the real employment outlet. This is why we are considering specific measures to be included in the forthcoming emergency measures establishing places of training within the productive contexts. In this way we introduce an innovative active policy based on public-private partnership to connect the productive system and the available workforce with continuity and effectiveness, through the development of services dedicated to the creation of new opportunities. Also on women's employment we are already studying specific proposals that act primarily on equal employment opportunities for women, starting from the anticipation of the gender impact assessment, which is already contained in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, and the gender procurement, which we are trying to incorporate as soon as possible. In order to avoid the risks of the coming months, when the release of redundancies will be likely to have a serious impact on employment, we are considering some measures aimed at encouraging job reintegration and raising employment levels. These are the introduction of new tools that guarantee companies the necessary flexibility in the delicate phase of repartitioning and workers a contextual path of training, of targeted adaptation of skills and of job integration, able to accompany them in the employment transitions towards stable employment. I also believe that it is urgent, urgent, in collaboration with the Ministry of Economic Development, to start mapping the progress of the different sectors, because recovery is not the same, it will not be the same on all sides and within the same sectors there will be a different articulation and a different rebound. Monitoring is therefore very important also because continuing to use equal instruments for different situations is not always the best that can be done in this historical phase. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u60	I give the floor to Senator Carbone to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u61	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply and I take note of your words. I am satisfied and I am also hopeful. By the way, I have to say that since he took office he has not missed an appointment with the Commission working. I am therefore very hopeful of your commitment and that of President Draghi for what we will do together for the workers, for the companies and for the Italian production system in general. Allow me, however, to express my own concern and concern. Coming from Campania, Naples, I would like to focus on the situation of Whirpool in that city. You know that Whirpool despite having presented the results of the first quarter in Europe, reporting a double growth in revenues, still decided to close its doors in Naples, leaving 330 workers at home on foot. Mr Minister, you know that the situation of Whirpool, among other things, is similar to those of other companies and other large groups in the South, which will soon close, leaving thousands of workers at home. I realize that, given the contingency periods provided for in the Rules of Procedure, I cannot expect your response, but at least I would like from you a commitment, which is not formal, but substantial, to finally address these important issues by your Ministry and within the Government, also in the light of the considerable funding within the PNRR for the South. I say this as a Neapolitan, as a Campanian, as a Southern man, but above all - let me, Minister, as an Italian: if the Mezzogiorno does not start again, Italy does not start again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u62	Senator De Bertoldi has the power to explain the question 3-02469 on the facilitations to navigators for access to the public employment, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u63	Mr President, Minister, the protection and promotion of work are for us the almost existential political commitment of Brothers of Italy and represent, at least for a Minister of the Republic and especially for the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, a duty. We want to question you on citizenship income. Defending work, for those who have a liberal culture like me, means investing in work, promoting companies that hire and defend those enterprises - I think of Silvelox of Trentino-Alto Adige or the former Embraco of Piedmont - who instead see their workers at risk of losing their jobs because of unnecessary legal complications, which unfortunately exist in our system and also because of unacceptable positions of the National Institute of Social Security. That is what it means to defend work and workers. I can understand - I know you will not be offended, Minister - that your culture is different from mine; your Marxist matrix certainly has a different vision from my liberal vision. I believe, however, that we should and could agree, Minister, that the income of citizenship has proved to be a mere welfare measure. It is not said by Brothers of Italy, the data of the National Agency for Active Policies at Work (ANPAL) and the numbers: 1.650,000 people receiving citizenship income, 423 active relocation grants, zero jobs created. These are numbers that testify to the failure of the income of citizenship as a promotion of work, as a creation of jobs; a form of diseducation that has not promoted anything and has left businesses and workers in difficulties. We then ask you about the decree-law support, a measure that was to compensate entrepreneurs and VAT matches affected by the pandemic and lockdowns. And what do you expect? It provides for the refinancing of citizenship income, the extension of the scandalous ANPAL posts and therefore - here is the point - the preferential title for navigators in public competitions: out of 11,000 public places that will compete, we will in fact have more than half of them already allocated or almost. Minister, that is what I want to question and ask for a precise answer: do you not think that meritocracy is sacrificed to the privileges of friends and privileges of someone, and therefore that it is really a serious loss to the potential of our country system? It is not acceptable that the decree-law supports, the measure that should help our companies and therefore our workers, give unjustified privileges to navigators, i.e. those representatives of the income of citizenship who have not produced a job. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u64	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u65	Mr President, Senator De Bertoldi, thank you for your question. I am not at all offended if you point out that your political culture is different from mine and I can only be pleased that the liberal culture has spread so widely. [[Applause]] What I think is right to stress is that respect for the truth tells us that, within the framework of the decree-law supports, there is no extension of the assignments of ANPAL, which are not subject to spoil system, nor does it tell us that there is within this provision a title that will guarantee the recruitment of so-called navigators. This story would advise us not to use any more English terms to define the functions that are exercised in this country because, rather than a definition, they risk becoming a stigma. There is no privilege or harm to the equal opportunities of access to competition procedures of public administrations, given that the same must support and overcome the tests of any competitions in which they wanted to participate, as has already happened in some regions in which they participated. The favourable assessment of past experience - when there have been - in the sustained selection corresponds to a principle already widely used in the public administration and also confirmed by the recent legislation introduced by my colleague Brunetta. I therefore believe that the activities of navigators should be considered as one of the faculties and knowledge acquired by those who will participate in the competition, with a view that can contribute to the strengthening of employment centres. I hope that the same attention dedicated to this topic will also be directed to the serious delays that still unfortunately characterize the process of recruitment of the 11,000 places provided within the employment centers, with resources already allocated, and that pass through a series of plans and notices realized by the Regions that I consider absolutely essential in order to realize in our country an active political system of the job that can only see protagonists the private subjects, but also a public network that must be put in the conditions to adequately support this challenge. I believe that the rapid completion of this process is essential for territorial structures to be able to deliver the labour policies needed to cope with the effects of pandemics on the labour market, particularly after the blocking of redundancies is removed. I'll add a final remark, if you'll excuse me. I consider that assessing the ability to implement active labour policies within a pandemic is quite complicated. I believe that, objectively, the income of citizenship has served to cope with what was likely to be an explosion of absolute poverty within our country. Let's evaluate it for this, and when we have an active policy system we'll also evaluate what works and what doesn't work. I believe that the two spheres should be more distinct, but I think that it is right to test them also in the light of a picture more corresponding to an ordinary dynamic of the market. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u66	I give the floor to Senator De Bertoldi to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u67	Mr President, Minister, I am not particularly satisfied - you will understand that - even though I have considered a certain difficulty on your part, as a representative of the Government, in justifying this title of preference to navigators in public competitions which, as stated in Article 18 of the Decree-Law on Supports, exists. We do not share it, because - I repeat - meritocracy must prevail over everything; we do not want privileges for navigators, as well as for anyone else. Minister, I would like to make a more general recommendation to you. In these last few hours you hear that the government you represent wants to "dismount" 100. I would like to invite you to "disassemble" something else, namely the establishment of citizenship income and the decree of dignity, which has paralysed and cast the labour market. Facilitate and help businesses, which are the only ones who can and want to create jobs; this is how you invest and do not make current and welfare spending in the labour sector. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u68	Senator Laforgia has the right to explain question 3-02470 on the introduction of a statutory minimum wage for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u69	Mr President, Minister, in this branch of Parliament - and, in particular, in the Commission, public and private work, social security - long before the pandemic hit our country we dealt with something that I think is very important, namely the possibility of introducing a legal minimum wage. We started from some draft laws filed for a long time in the Senate and also thanks to the impulse of those who preceded it to the Ministry. Then, of course, the pandemic blew up the political agenda. However, Minister, I do not think there is a single reason why we should abandon that path, all the more so in the light of what has happened in recent months. It is necessary to introduce a threshold, in terms of hourly wages, below which no worker must be able to fall. We must do this, Minister, because it is a viable path and because the minimum wage is a road that is also indicated to us by Europe. Minister, you are very sensitive to these issues, as you are also showing as Minister for Labour and Social Policy. There is the tragedy of the workers who have lost - or risk losing - their jobs (it was also mentioned a while ago) and I would like to thank you because you are working to understand what will happen the minute after the removal of the dismissals, especially in relation to the reform of the social shock absorbers to which you referred. However, it is no less mortifying (as long as you can establish some hierarchy) the condition of who has a job, but, precisely because underpaid, you do not see guaranteed dignity for yourself and your loved ones. I say this also in the light of a rather solid tradition of the industrial relations of this country (which we must defend, relaunch and bring back to the new world), which is national collective bargaining. Within that framework, however, we can no longer allow the more or less wide meshes of the scheme to ensure that there are workers who escape and live a poor working condition. My question is very simple. Mr. Minister, what are you planning to do, on a practical level, with a view to the possible introduction of a minimum wage level, which I believe this country needs? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u70	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u71	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Laforgia for his question, which concerns the initiatives that are being taken to improve the adequacy of wages and the protection of workers and workers. It is a few days ago the news that our country has had among the greatest losses of the purchasing power of workers within the European Union. This issue is of primary importance, particularly at the present time, because the pandemic has hit the European economy hard and it is essential to ensure that wages are adequate, sufficient to guarantee workers and their families a free and dignified existence, as enshrined in Article 36 of our Constitution. The establishment of a minimum wage threshold would facilitate the creation of a more inclusive, fairer and equal labour market, reducing inequalities even in terms of gender pay gap. On this issue, I think it is appropriate to be within the framework that is being defined at European level. The Commission's proposal for a directive contains rules aimed at making the systems adopted by the countries of the European Union more effective and uniform, pursuing the common objective of making the protection of minimum wage treatment accessible to all workers and strengthening and extending the coverage of collective bargaining, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. This framework will define some authorising principles and criteria to be followed, which will allow us to arrive at a possible regulatory identification of the minimum wage and above all to clarify and resolve the question of the relationship between union representation and minimum wage, which in our country constitutes a historical difficulty. In fact, collective bargaining must be strengthened through legislative intervention in the field of trade union representativeness, which I believe is necessary to safeguard the minimum wage from distorting phenomena and to protect workers as much as possible. The directive will give us a reference on how to act and how to act in this direction. It will therefore be a necessary reference point that can implement and strengthen a principle of economic democracy, which I consider not only desirable but also necessary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Laforgia to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u72	Mr Minister, your words clearly state not only your sensitivity, but also your willingness to proceed precisely on the path of introducing a minimum wage threshold. I think we need to do this to put at least two debates behind us, or the way we have dealt with them in the past. I am thinking first of all of industrial policies, all the more so in the light of what has happened in recent months. One cannot imagine entering the new world thinking that companies can be helped not by being on the ground of quality and innovation, but by imagining a downward pressure of wages. Well, this is an old, outdated debate that we must leave behind. There is another one, which is echoed even in this House when we dealt with it, namely the one that contrasts the instruments to which you referred (income support, citizenship income, universal forms of income support) to the question of work and pay. What I call the divanist thesis comes into play here. That is to say, we must not introduce universal forms of income support because they are primarily driving young people to sit on their sofas and discourage them from seeking work. In fact, when young people compare the work they have outside and the income they receive, they prefer the second. That is, if this argument were true, then it means that wages must be raised and that therefore the problem is the wage that this country must face also by introducing a minimum legal threshold. Thank you for your answer and especially for what you can do. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u73	Senator Bergesio has the right to explain the question 3-02472 on the discipline of fixed-term employment contracts, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u74	Mr President, Minister, the epidemiological emergency is jeopardising important economic sectors of our country, which before the pandemic were in strong growth - I think, for example, in the tourism sector - and is leading to very serious employment consequences with long-term relationships in sharp decline, without the appropriate growth of permanent contracts. According to the latest data, in December 2020 there were almost 393,000 fixed-term contracts less than a year earlier, of course considering the employees, while, as regards the newly activated contracts, there were even 1.4 million fewer contracts during 2020 than in 2019. The decree-law known as the Dignity Decree, based on the reasonable objective of promoting the creation of ever more stable working relationships, was, however, designed for a socio-economic structure completely different from that of the current pandemic. In Decree No 34 of May 2020, due to the pandemic emergency, we had provided for the possibility of renewing or extending until 30 August the fixed-term contracts, in force on 23 February 2020, even in the absence of the conditions laid down in Article 19. In turn, Article 17 of Decree-Law No 41 of March of this year provides that until 31 December 2021 fixed-term contracts may be renewed or extended for a maximum of 12 months and for a single time, even in the absence of the conditionality present in current legislation, without prejudice to the total duration of up to 24 months. However, the measures taken so far are not sufficient, as the current emergency calls for a broader reflection on the current regulatory framework for labour relations. At a time of severe economic crisis, it is essential to allow the continuation of time contracts, first of all because companies are unable to stabilise, given the economic uncertainty. There is therefore a risk of not offering job continuity to these workers and, above all, of dispersing excellent professionalism. The extension would therefore allow a link between workers and undertakings to be maintained. In the light of all this, Minister, we are asking you what steps you intend to take immediately to allow these contracts to be renewed for more than twenty-four months and, above all, even if there are no grounds for doing so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u75	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u76	Mr President, as is well known and as has been pointed out, in the Decree-Law on Support, we have extended the suspension of the grounds for time contracts, in line with the extension of the other emergency measures which have been taken to protect employment, in view of the continuation of the emergency framework and the suspension of productive activities. I am aware that companies are calling for the revision of the Decree-Law dignity in order to lighten the limits imposed by the negotiation in term and to guarantee conditions of greater flexibility that can be of incentive to restart. From a medium to long-term perspective, it is certainly necessary to focus on labour market regulations and their contractual arrangements. However, data on the stabilisation of forward contracts should be carefully analysed, taking into account also the distorting element of the pandemic. Of course, I believe that every temptation to return to precariousness must be rejected and for this reason I do not think it is appropriate to think - I insist very much on this concept - of instruments that are valid for all areas and that act in the same way. The pandemic crisis, compared to the previous crises, has a substantial difference, because it has had a very heterogeneous impact on the different production sectors. If it is justified that it is impossible to stabilize in sectors that are severely affected by the virus, it is less so in sectors that have continued to grow over the last few months and have even been in a state of structural strengthening. I believe that this leads us to address the issue - for the moment I do not fully hear it from the social partners - of how it differs, of how sector tables are created, of how social dialogue is carried at a territorial level, because I consider this to be the only way to distinguish. To say today that we are inventing a new contract, which has features of greater flexibility, valid in all sectors, means in some cases doing too little and in others inducing a process of precariousness, which is not desirable at this time. So I think we should study, for the desired rebound, of the "clothes" made in some way tailored for the different sectors. This is the effort I believe we should make in the coming weeks, hoping that social dialogue will also go a little further than the issue of blocking redundancies or the date on this block, which is certainly an important issue, but it also takes on the issue of how to build instruments that take account of territorial and sectoral differences. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u77	Senator Bergesio has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u78	Minister, we take note of your timely response. I also take this opportunity to point out to you another important aspect, which is particularly dear to the Lega-Salvini Premier. Almost 90% of agricultural workers are employed under fixed-term employment contracts for seasonal activities, where income depends on the number of actual days. For example, those who work at least fifty-one days a year have a total income of around 5,000-6,000 euros; those who work one hundred and fifty-one days have an annual income of about 15,000-16,000 euros. We are therefore talking about very fragile workers, especially from an economic point of view. They must be protected, supported. Let us bear in mind that, in addition to the emergency of the pandemic that we had, there is another one, that of the frosts. More than 150 000 of these workers employed in agricultural enterprises are at risk of remaining without working days during 2021. We in the League have two proposals: to extend the covid exemption fund also to the causal calamity and the amendment of Law No 223 of 1991, which is inapplicable. The latter, in fact, provides protection for the slippage of working days, however if the company has to ask for it in relation to the worker, it does not work. We ask you, Minister, to listen to the cry of pain and solidarity with these workers. We have learned that on 30 April, in the face of a commitment from the Ministry led by you, the national strike planned for these workers was lifted. I would like to express my solidarity with the jeweler Mario Roggero, his family and the entire Grinzane Cavour community for the tragic robbery that took place yesterday. [[Applause]] Three robbers broke into his shop, he, who had already suffered a violent robbery six years ago and had been savagely beaten while he was in the shop with his wife and daughter, did what he could to defend his work, his family, himself. Unfortunately, two robbers died and a third was injured. But we, Mr President, are all with Mario and the defence for us is always legitimate [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u79	Senator Romagnoli has the right to explain the question 3-02474 on the next legislative initiatives in the field of pensions, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u80	Mr President, Minister, with the 2020 budget law, the Technical Committee on Welfare and Assistance and the Technical Committee responsible for studying the burden of employment were set up. Both were extended to 31 December 2021. In addition, various pension measures have been extended under the 2021 Budget Act: as of 31 December 2021, the Social Bee has been extended to 2021 as a whole, the possibility for businesses to use the expansion contract, lowering the limit of work units in staff to access the benefit from 1,000 to 250 units, has also been extended for 2021 also as a woman option, a measure that offers the possibility of anticipating exit from the world of work. We believe it is necessary for the good of the country, especially at this very particular moment of economic crisis, to continue to promote measures as a woman's and social bee option, to make the expansion contract structural and to incorporate the generational relay and the institution of the isopension into the regulatory framework, as well as the pension guarantee for young people. In view of the fact that on 28 January 2020 the Minister for Labour and Social Policy signed the decree establishing the technical table of study on social security issues, which was entrusted with the task of defining the guidelines and measures for the reform of the pension system, we ask you, Minister: whether you intend to carry out and complete the work of the two committees referred to in the preamble; whether you intend to include in the regulatory framework measures such as the generational relay, the youth guarantee pension and the pension pension; whether you intend to establish the table on social security issues, in order to intervene on the pension system, considering that the 100 quota trial will end in December 2021, as well as confirming the Social Bee, the expansion contract and the women's option from January 2022. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u81	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the technical committees which have been set up by Article 1, paragraphs 474 and 475 of the Law of 27 December 2019, No 160, whose operation has been extended until 31 December 2021, are certainly bodies which I consider essential for the acquisition of knowledge and scientific methodologies in support of the evaluation of state policies in the field of social security and welfare. The establishment of both commissions took place in January 2021, but the transition from the Count 2 Government to the Draghi Government determined the need to acquire the new nominations of representatives of the various Ministries. This phase of substantial resettlement of the commission has just ended: by Ministerial Decree No 94 of 20 April 2021, the composition of the commission on the classification and comparison, at European and international level, of national public expenditure has been modified; by Ministerial Decree No 101 of 27 April 2021, the composition of the commission on the burdensomeness of occupations has been modified. The committee on the classification of expenditure met just yesterday, 28 April. It has been given the complex task because the classification of expenditure also presupposes the identification of the objectives that are to be pursued and the needs that are to be met. Therefore, the reflection on pension reform has already been substantially reactivated at the technical level and at the outcome of these weeks of deepening we will have the elements to correctly assess the weight and composition of the pension and welfare expenditure present and future and to support properly public social security policies. With the results of the work of the Commissions, a comparison will therefore be opened with the social partners, with the other ministries concerned and in the collegiate government, in order to identify the appropriate paths to intervene on the pension system, also in order, inter alia, to assess the permanence of social security institutions that allow conditions of flexibility for categories of disadvantaged subjects and to identify new guarantee institutions for young people, as requested by the questioners. In any case, the proposals for action that will soon be identified and shared will necessarily have to be oriented to ensure that the system is increasingly adherent to the basic guidelines of generational equity, sustainability and performance adequacy and - I add, at the cost of being monotonous - to the phase of the economic cycle that is being determined. I think, for example, that this reasoning will have to be linked to a more intensive use of solidarity contracts and expansion contracts, which are also an instrument that has an impact on the social security front. This is the debate that needs to be held. I confess - I mean it very frankly and I take responsibility for it - that in the first few weeks my attention has been mainly dedicated to those who risk losing it, without underestimating the fact that there is a legitimate expectation of workers who at the end of the year want to know what their destiny is. However, I thought it necessary, first of all, to collect the work that had been done on these two fronts: active policies and social shock absorbers. Today we can say that this work has been restarted and I believe that there are also the conditions for opening a debate on the issue of pensions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u83	Senator Romagnoli has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u84	Minister, thank you for your timely reply and your sensitivity. I note that the Ministry has reconvened the two committees of study on the provision and assistance and the burdensomeness of employment, which I believe should complete the work by September of this year, so that we can identify some useful interventions by the end of the year. I repeat the importance of restoring, as soon as possible, the technical table of study on social security techniques in order to define the measures to reform the pension system. I believe that, in addition to the extension of the women's and social Ape option, to make the expansion contract structural and to the possibility of obtaining instruments, such as the generational relay, the pension and the pension guarantee for young people, it is necessary to intervene on the pension system starting from 2022, including these measures already in the next budget law, considered among other things that the 100th share will end the planned trial by December this year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u85	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u86	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into activities related to family communities that receive minors, whose list of members is published in the Annex to the Report of today's sitting, is convened on Wednesday 5 May 2021, at 9 a.m., to proceed to its constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u89	LOMUTI (M5S). Madam President, what emerges from the investigation of the newspaper "Fanpage.it" on the Undersecretary of the League Claudio Durigon is serious and admits no hesitation. [[Applause]] It is serious and it needs to be clarified, because, by occupying such an apical position in a delicate Dicastery such as that of the economy, at a time when huge European funds are coming, we cannot afford any shadow. They disturb these intricate relationships with the UGL, worried that the balance sheet of a union is not public, even if it manages workers' money, they disturb the links with entrepreneurs investigated by the DDA; and it is disturbing the statement that involves the Finance Guard, that we hope to be totally false. But, if that were the case, we would also be in the presence of a Undersecretary who is full of vanagloria, treating himself as the one who is capable of conditioning the systems of the State. Then, Mr President, it is necessary to clarify whether we are faced with a milkman who offends the image and goodness of the Government or whether there are unknown facts behind what emerged from this investigation, which deserve the scrutiny of the judicial authority. In any case, the very serious words expressed by the Undersecretary indicate a concept that is absolutely not compatible with the functions of a government representative. [[Applause]] For this reason, we invite undersecretary Claudio Durigon to resign. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u92	FERRARA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 June 2009 it is a sadly well-known date for the railway massacre in Viareggio, a disaster that could and should have been avoided, if it had been invested in safety and if the perverse logic of profit had not been followed, rather than that of the protection of the person. That night the fire enveloped an entire neighborhood, burning thirty - three people, including three children, who thought themselves safe in their homes. What has happened in these twelve years is an expression of the worst of our country's cowardice: attempts to unload the responsibilities, the fugitiveness of the State, the throwing away the truth, protecting the strong powers instead of the victims, the cowardice and the lack of dignity in assuming responsibility and in apologizing for so much suffering. [[Applause]] The then CEO of Ferrovie dello Stato Mauro Moretti was convicted in the first and second instance for serious crimes such as railway disaster and multiple manslaughter. Knight Moretti - eh yes, because then, immediately after the massacre, the then president of the Republic Napolitano demanded him of such honor - instead of asking forgiveness or at least excuse liquidated the disaster as an unpleasant episode, dismissing Riccardo Antonini, a guilty railwayman, in his opinion, to have done free of charge as a consultant to the family members of the victims. President, ladies and gentlemen, I, as a citizen and even more as a Member of Parliament, am ashamed that this title is still recognized in Moretti, which has not been revoked, as I, my colleagues, the city of Viareggio and all the Italians who believe in justice for years. If that were not enough, now we get the news of the appointment of Moretti to councilor of the state shareholder PSC, nomination that maybe will lead him to even more important offices. This is a further distraction to the families of the victims, who twelve years after that painful disaster, still see the former number one FS playing roles in high-quality societies of the state. I ask myself and ask you: why him? Why do we not have a minimum of respect for those who must spend their lives regretting one's own family? [[Applause]] I conclude by saying that Cavalier Moretti has not yet apologized to the family members of the victims. Maybe, stunned by his overkill, he'll never do that. Then, Mr President, I do so, with my heart full of shame to represent these institutions that reward the guilty and that, with this appointment, they kill once again those 33 innocent people for whom, be it clear, we will never stop demanding justice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u95	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I take the floor on the matter learned from the press these days about the alleged hypothetical use of state flights by the President of the Senate Alberti Casellati in the last eleven months. As far as we can tell, the president would have... president. Excuse me, Senator Crucioli, I don't want to interrupt you at all, but I would ask you to refer to the matter. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Definitely. The matter of fact... president. You understood perfectly, Senator. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). The question of fact, however, must be made known and concerns, precisely, the use for 124 times, in eleven months, of the State plane: 97 times in the Venice-Rome section, that is, home-office of the President, and 6 in August for Sardinia. There are some rules on this. I studied them. Decree-Law No 98 of 2011 states that the aircraft in question can certainly also be used by the President of the Senate, but it must be specifically authorised for the routes and made public on the website of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I therefore ask why there is no trace of these routes on the website of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, either they are denied - but I am not aware that the matter has been denied - or the site is lacking and, therefore, the norm has been violated. There is also the directive of 23 September 2011 which states that the use of state aircraft can only be made for proven, unpredictable and urgent requirements related to functions and only if there is the impossibility of scheduled flights and the established lack of availability of other modes of transport. In the eleven months in question, scheduled aircraft for mortal municipalities were active in the routes mentioned and there were railway lines. So, even in this case, if the news were confirmed, there would be a violation of the norm. I then recall the circular of 10 May 2013, which foresees the need to detail the requests, explicitly clarifying the reasons and the lack of availability of other routes or other flights. Then, the point is as follows: if the information was confirmed and if the above mentioned rules were violated, the offence of peculate and, in any case, the erarial damage could be foreshadowed. As the presidency of the Senate represents all of us, it represents this House, the issue must be clarified, because it is not conceivable that the senators of the Republic are represented by a Presidency that is hypothetically liable to charge of crime. President. - I call Senator Crucioli to refer, of course, to the matter, as I said before. Of course, he takes responsibility for his statements. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). I always do, ma'am. I always do. [[Applause]] Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u96	I also believe that the legislation to which you referred is that which concerns the members of the Government, but of course this is not the place for any further study.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u97	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-322.ana.u98	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 5 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (16.09 a.m.).
