ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u4	I communicate that, on 9 June 2021, the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 52 of 22 April 2021 introducing urgent measures for the gradual resumption of economic and social activities, in compliance with the requirements of containment of the spread of the epidemic by Covid-19
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u5	I inform you that on 9 June 2021 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Ministers for Public Administration and Justice (OJ No. 80 of 9 June 2021), including urgent measures for the strengthening of the administrative capacity of the public administrations functional to the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) and for the efficiency of justice (No. 2272).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00371 by Senator De Carlo and other senators, 1-00381 by Senators Licheri, De Petris, Malpezzi and others, 1-00382 by Senator Bergesio and other senators, and 1-00383 by Senator Magorno and other senators, on the protection and promotion of Italian agri-food products. I call Senator La Pietra to explain motion No 371.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u7	Mr President, given the short time to present the motion, I will try to get into this matter immediately, starting from the points we consider essential to clarify the reasons for which we have tabled the act of direction on the subject. In January 2021, the European Food Safety Authority declared the larvae of safe flour moths for human consumption; on 3 May, EU Member States approved a Commission proposal to authorise the marketing of larvae as an ingredient in other foods. The EU 2020-2030 Action Plan identifies insects as a source of protein that can support the green transition of production. This is the first critical issue. Secondly, on the basis of the European Commission's proposal contained in document No 394 of 1 June 2018, de-alcoholated products will be added to the 17 categories already regulated by the European Regulation itself; again from 2018, the year of submission by the Commission of the draft regulations for the reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP), there is the proposal to introduce a new category of de-alcoholed products, to which it can probably be attributed to the designation "wine" (watered). In addition, Article 3 (2) of Regulation No 2283 of 2015 on novel foods provides that the elements consisting of, isolated or produced from cell cultures or tissue cultures derived from animals, plants, micro-organisms, fungi or algae are one of the categories of novel foods listed in the Regulation. The last critical point we want to highlight is that in its Farm to Fork strategy published in May 2020, the European Commission has clarified its intention to propose by the end of 2022 a harmonised and mandatory nutrition labelling at European level, to be placed on the labels; among the various types of experimental food labelling developed within the European Union there has been the possibility of adopting the so-called "nutri-score." In short, they are all attacks aimed at our food production, our Italian products and our lifestyle and food, characterized by the Mediterranean diet. That is why we stressed in the motion that the heritage of the Mediterranean diet must be protected. I remind all of us, in fact, that it has been recognized as an immaterial heritage of humanity by UNESCO, being a particular way of life, which - I read it - includes a series of skills, knowledge, rituals, symbols and traditions relating to cultivation, harvesting, fishing, breeding, conservation, cooking and, above all, sharing and consuming food. Basically, it's our national identity. We have not tabled this motion in an extemporaneous way, but it is a work that comes from afar. We wanted to recall this within the same motion, citing that on 12 February 2020 a motion of initiative of the Fratelli d'Italia Parliamentary Group was approved in the Chamber of Deputies, unanimously, highlighting the important doubts, both scientific and economic, inherent in this system and committed the Government to work in Europe to counter the adoption of the nourishes and to protect the Italian agri-food sector. This, in short, is what we put in the premise. With our motion, we ask the Government, Mr President, through precise guidelines, listed in eight points, to undertake to do the following: to enhance and promote the excellence of Italian agri-food production; to take all the necessary initiatives to defend the Italian wine product and DOCG, DOC and IGT products; take appropriate steps to avoid calling meat what is not; give our agri-food producers more appropriate tools to defend themselves against Italian soiling, a commercial practice that we consider unfair, like counterfeiting, and, at the same time, greater resources to promote Italian products; fight, firmly, at European level, hypotheses of adoption of the nut-score or the traffic light system, reaffirming Italy's opposition to all its application and, at the same time, support the nutnform battery, which turns out to be a more effective labelling model and more similar to the protection of the Mediterranean diet; provide for an information campaign on this new labelling system proposed by Italy, which allows consumers to have clear and precise nutritional information and provide for a phase of temporary testing of this type of labelling throughout the country, through incentives to companies that use the new brand. All this, in summary, is the first-signed motion by my colleague De Carlo, with whom the Brothers of Italy ask this Assembly for a unanimous and shared vote in defence of the Italian agri-food industry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u8	I call Senator Trentacoste to explain motion 381.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of Made in Italy in national legislation has seen a succession of rules that, from time to time, refined more and more principles of defence against counterfeit brands and the promotion of our agri-food sector, which represents a world-renowned excellence. For example, Law No. 80 of 2005 strengthened the legal protection of the "Made in Italy" trademark, extending the sanctions contained in the 2004 Finance Act, which limited itself to false and misleading indications of origin also to indications of origin; the improper use of the trademark and its counterfeiting are therefore punishable by fines and, in some cases, by arrest. Law no. 166 of 2009 then introduced the new trademark of origin, the "100 percent Made in Italy, " to the benefit of the companies that have maintained production on the Italian territory without resorting to relocation. In the light of the above, it is clear that the legislation already tends to counter the phenomena of plagiarism or counterfeiting of the Italian product. The agri-food sector, which represents a significant share of our country's exports, is an area in which Made in Italy is synonymous with high product quality and for these reasons counterfeiting takes on significant proportions. Such a guarantee of confidence cannot be reduced to simplistic graphic communication, which could certainly be simpler and more immediate in reading, but would limit the consumer's interpretation of the nutritional intakes of individual foods. On the other hand, the commitment of our country has always been oriented towards maximum transparency on the indication of origin on the label in order to protect the most virtuous consumers and guarantee the right of consumers to correct information. However, this cannot be reductive and limiting, undermining the ability to disseminate information on the nutrients of food, reducing consumer intelligibility. The nourishing score, which is the food labelling system developed in France since 2016 and which makes use, improperly and misleadingly, of the use of a chromatic scale and an alphabetic for the classification of the nutritional values of a food product, is openly opposed to the principles of the Mediterranean diet, which indeed is based on a balanced consumption of all nutrients. Such an approach would severely penalise national agri-food productions, traditional and highly healthy foods such as extra virgin olive oil and numerous PDO and PGI productions, which would receive a negative evaluation translated into a red bottle because of their salt, sugar and fat content. In this respect, Italy has put forward an alternative proposal, the so-called battery-powered scheme, confirming that such models must remain voluntary and not mandatory and excluding from possible compulsory application the productions with geographical indication. This scheme, also known as nutrinform battery, indicates to the consumer the nutritional values of the food in relation to its daily needs and the correct food style. Moreover, these indications would be of an additional nature and would not replace the classic nutrition label on the back of the package. Other technologies would meet the needs of consumers, such as blockchain, which would allow full food traceability, providing details of origin on raw materials, information on production and processing, dates of storage and shipment of various products. This technology, due to its particular characteristics, should increasingly be promoted to protect typical products and brands in order to certify the origin of food, which is the history of women, men and their culture, as well as of territories and their traditions and which would thus regain consumer confidence. The hope is that greater simplification, transparency and protection of the mark of origin for the benefit of consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent the productive fabric of our country, will be able to maintain or bring back their production on national territory. It is for these reasons that motion 382, tabled by Movimento 5 Stelle, Party Democratic and Free and Equal, intends to pursue, both at national and European level, policies in support of the quality and intrinsic characteristics of national agri-food productions, as well as the accuracy and truthfulness of the data reported on the label, intensifying the fight against food fraud and encouraging proper food education. I conclude by saying that the promotion and spread of the Mediterranean diet as a sustainable model from a food, productive and environmental point of view must be the driving force for the protection of biodiversity and for the support of policies to protect labour and agricultural workers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u10	I call Senator Zuliani to explain motion 382.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Minister, once again we are debating in the Assembly of Made in Italy, in this case of the Italian agro-food industry, that land-food-table which represents 25% of the country's GDP, which in 2020, with 46 billion euros, marked an increase of 1.9 percent, confirming that Italian agriculture and agri-food, as well as being the cornerstone of the past economy, are strategic factors for the present and future economy. As I have already said, Italian products are excellences that the whole world envys us, cultivated, worked and preserved in territorial contexts characterized from North to South by a myriad of microclimate situations. There is no product, among the thousands, that is equal, moving in our wonderful territories, with flavors, perfumes and tastes envied all over the world. Hence the creation of sabotages, unfair competition, dirty play and Italian soiling agri-food - which I call the monkeying of Made in Italy, which goes from imitation to labels or deceptive images, if not counterfeit - as well as the nourishing-score traffic light system, which some countries would like to have adopted to improperly match the red color to the Italian excellences and products of our Mediterranean diet, which has also been recognized by UNESCO as an immaterial heritage of humanity, a healthy and balanced food model, the only one that has been proven to have the ability to prevent diseases. Here are the missiles aimed at our good, healthy and healthy products, which try to hit our country: synthetic foods, non-meat and non-vegetable milk or worms proteins. Lega Salvini Premier-Partito sardo d'Azione what then asks with this motion? It calls for a commitment from the Government in the following directions: to work in all appropriate fora to counter any discriminatory action against the food model based on the principles of the Mediterranean diet and to defend the health of consumers from misleading and misleading labelling systems, in order to protect our agri-food heritage; to act in line with the contents of Law No 1060 laying down provisions to encourage the achievement of high quality standards of Italian agri-food products, introducing a rating system for the certification of excellence and reform of the prevention system, in order to improve transparency on labelling with the aim of making known the strong criticalities of the nutrition score and bringing to it the necessary corrections; to focus on strategic objectives in the design of the PNRR; to improve the health of citizens, protecting consumers in terms of food composition and favouring the health and the changes of consumption models, oriented to well-being and longevity; to promote our new excellences, correcting the crooks of nutrition-score, as well as an index of intuitive scale, not in color, which will enable consumers to be more attractive in our own interests, to be made aware of that they are at the level of our own level of the promotions, and to take no new standards of food, so that they may be at the cost, and may be at the level of our own level of the cost, and may be taken at the other levels of food. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u12	The remaining motion No 383 is intended as an explanation. Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u13	Mr President, I should like to congratulate you on the inclusion of such an important subject on the agenda of this House and briefly to mention three issues. The first is that we cannot divide ourselves on this subject. As members of the Europeanist Group, we held a conference here in the Senate some time ago and we discussed the issues of nutritious-scores, nutrient-battery, Green Keyhole, which would be the Scandinavian system, and the Anglo-Saxon traffic lights system. We have heard experts, not only Italians, and a couple of days later a similar event took place promoted by another political group, but in the media it has passed that only that political group, which I will not mention, has at heart the defense of Made in Italy agri-food. This is not the case: on this subject we must be united and the flags bring nothing good. It doesn't bring anything good even to do this battle only in Italy. This battle is taking place at least in Europe, so if the outcome of a motion, which I hope can be united, will be translated into English and French and distributed to the Chancellors of our Contesting Countries in Europe, this discussion will make sense; if instead we do the promotion to protect and defend Made in Italy in Italy, we remain as we have remained so far. Anyone who can participate in an agri-food fair, such as the Anuga (which is the largest in the world), can see that next to the stand ICE or some Italian manufacturer there are ten Germans or Chinese made in Italy or Italian sounding. We must understand that the playing field is Europe, and so either we are Europeans, not by choice of trust, and we learn how to play it efficiently, or we are provincials and the result is seen. This battle is not won without Italians abroad. Members of AIRE, representing six million (more than 10% of the population), are the first ambassadors, promoters and interested in the protection of the real Made in Italy agri-food and - not at all - are very active in catering. I would point out that, six months after the approval of the recognition of Italian catering abroad (my and other colleagues' historic battle), the decree of implementation is still missing. I remember that the General States of Italian catering in the world, also claimed in some motions illustrated by colleagues, are already provided in the law, but without the decree of implementation they will not be able to take place. On the occasion of the recent Eurovision song contest, Italians noticed the value of Italians abroad. It's just us who have this network, but we don't exploit it. After ten years of battles, I managed to obtain, together with other colleagues, this recognition, but for six months the decree of implementation has been missing. Italian catering abroad is the first defender and promoter of Made in Italy agri-food. In fact, the law provides that at least 50% of the products served in the chains of real Italian restaurants abroad are PDO, DOC and IGT, officially recognized by the European Union as Italian products of excellence. Why don't we use these tools? Mine is a cry of pain that I hope will be received. You don't do these ununited and provincial battles and you don't win without the Italians abroad. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u14	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking my fellow Members for the presentation of the motions before us, which allow us, once again, to address a subject which is felt by everyone, perhaps with different sensitivities, also within this House, because it is everyone's interest to guarantee, promote and inform the products of Made in Italy. I repeat that in this House we probably have a great deal of different sensitivities, otherwise there would not have been five motions on this subject. However, I think I can say that each of us has an interest in the world of Italian productions. In fact, we know well that, when we go abroad or we are talking to acquaintances and friends of other countries, let's say that we come from Italy and talk about products made in Italy, the gaze of our interlocutor is illuminated. Historically, in fact, what comes from Italy has a certainly higher quality, recognized and recognizable. Intention of all of us is to continue in this direction and, for this reason, it is very important what I have already had the opportunity to define the diplomacy of Made in Italy and, more specifically, with reference to the motions under consideration today, a real diplomacy of agri-food. Everything that can be used to promote, educate and train on our agricultural productions and not only (but this morning, I repeat, we are talking about agri-food) is certainly a virtuous system that must involve Regions, Italian Government and European institutions. In this regard, I greet and thank the Minister for Agriculture's Food and Forestry Policy, who has always been sensitive to this issue, even in his previous post (we know that the Ministries are closely linked in this area). As I said, regions, national governments and European institutions must promote and work more and more for this diplomacy of agri-food, which allows each country - and therefore also ours - to promote and maintain the level of quality that we consider fundamental. In illustrating the motion, Senator Trentacoste has already said what is important for us to stress. For us, of course, it is essential to keep high attention to the geographical indications of the products, which also cover an important part of our turnover abroad in the field of food products made in Italy from the economic point of view. That is why it is essential that we find alliances in Europe and that we do not raise walls, as some might wish to do. The closure of dialogue and confrontation never corresponds to any promotion: I believe that we must have this clear and our motion highlights it. When we open up to others, we must try to explain to our colleagues, especially in Europe - and this motion is addressed to our Government so that it can be stronger in Europe too - how the Italian product, and in particular the culture, history and composition of our diets and products, are also fundamental for well-being. Now it is recognized, we say nothing new with regard to Italian food, from production to consumption it is said that those who live in Italy and eat in a certain way, with clearly recognizable products, of a higher quality, also has health welfare. That's why the ministries work together, too. It has already been dealt with by those who tabled the motion for a resolution on labelling, which, together with other issues - and I remember in particular the issue of wine and the promotion of our geographical indications - remains crucial for us in Europe. We want our consumers, through the label they find on a product, to have a clear idea of what that product is, how it was born and what its contribution is from a nutritional point of view compared to other types of labelling that are limited to giving a quick and usable indication, but that then do not put the consumer in a position to really understand what it consumes. As has already been said, we call on the Government to promote in Europe the fact that the nutri-score is abandoned as a system and that instead they give themselves scope, legs and strength to other systems that guarantee the best information of the consumer and therefore primarily also to producers who commit themselves every day to work in a certain way to guarantee quality of products from the nutritional point of view and transparency, which we know is absolutely necessary now. The pandemic has certainly opened up many questions in this respect and has also raised questions about how to promote and ensure at the same time the proper quality of what we eat. We saw what happened in China last year, so we have to question ourselves to ensure more and more that those who eat know what they eat and that they consume quality products, but also healthy and controlled. From this point of view, I applaud the Committee on Agriculture - of which I see all my colleagues here - where fortunately there has always been a commitment to work in this direction, although of course with the sensibilities of everyone, but we have always been aligned in that direction. The health and quality of the products comes first. I will conclude by repeating what has already been said in relation to the fact that there is really a need to confront ourselves at European level in order to promote our products and the Italian agri-food supply chain. I think we're actually gonna do this just by explaining what the Italy system is. I believe that we will do so only by making it clear to all the countries, even those closest to us, that we do not want to conquer the world, but we would have all the right and that above all, on the part of Italy, we can learn how to do well to train, educate and promote the product and a healthy and quality food. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u15	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, these motions give us the opportunity to clarify certain situations, because it seems that the world is going to meet here. In Europe, in the food sector, a policy is increasingly taking place which seems to undermine Italy's agri-food quality. We see this with the introduction, in our food culture, of certain foods that are not part of it, such as insect flour or de-alcoholized wine. So if we want to talk about healthy nutrition, we must necessarily use the concept of the Mediterranean diet, which is not so much a set and a list of foods, but it is a lifestyle. That food education that we have also brought into schools, for the formation of the individual and the child, must be recognized and must not be questioned at all, also through mechanisms that at this point I would define as perverse, such as the nouri-score, which determines the health of an element only with colors, not by inserting it in a diet chart that must necessarily refer to the daily and even weekly consumption of certain foods. Thus, in doing so, we introduce untested foods into our diet and abandon a diet that - as stated by many scientific societies, starting from the Veronesi Foundation - goes to fight diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and also neurovegetative diseases (we talk about Alzheimer's and Parkinson's). Through the perverse mechanism of the nutri-score we find very precious foods for our health - I want to make the example of olive oil - which are classified, on that scale of colors, as not excellent foods. The nutri-score also involves the excellence of our agri-food, PGI and PDO. Of course, work has been done on this mechanism, in conjunction with the MISE, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, to introduce the nutrientbattery, which also includes a daily feeding scale. We certainly have to go to Europe, not only because of an economic issue, but also because of lifestyle and health, to say not only what the agri-food sector requires of us, but also what science has said and validated over all these years. Our Mediterranean diet must be valued or our products of excellence, which are part of it and which include also the good glass of red wine, must be necessarily valued and not put in a corner, through a mechanism that little has scientific, because it does not see the whole of a diet and lifestyle of a person, as does the Mediterranean diet. Minister, you must bring to Europe the voice of a nation that has always had a prominent role and a great deal of attention to food of excellence, which has an immediate impact on the health of its citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u17	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I only have five minutes and I will therefore be very quick, partly because my colleagues after me will say much better. I have two thoughts. The Mediterranean diet - as we all know - is much more than just a list of foods: it is a set of principles and models, an ethical-practical paradigm that brings together tradition, innovation, integral ecology and sustainable development. It has become an immaterial heritage of UNESCO, certainly because health properties are celebrated, but also because it carries immense cultural value and is an essential vector of environmental, social and cultural quality. If all this is true, we must - I thank you, Minister, for being here and I am sure that you will do a great job in Europe - absolutely overcome the challenge on food labels, because the clash between French nutri-score and Italian nutinform battery will determine the diet of millions of people and, consequently, also the costs that will be poured on the health system, if it is true that the more you deviate from the patterns of the Mediterranean diet the more increases cardiovascular diseases, and this is scientifically proven. Then I say, let's take the best of the French. They can communicate very well through color information, which actually reaches the final consumer more easily. We need to find that point of synthesis between the punctual and analytical information that we strongly support of the nutrinform with the so-called ability to bring the information to the final consumer through the use of chromatic models. It is clear to everyone that red represents something dangerous compared to green, which is not. The use of the technologies of an algorithm, in which we insert the information that we strongly support, can help us bring even the colors within the nutrient form, that is that grid of information that we broadly support precisely to give scientific content to the quality of our food. That's my suggestion. I am sure that you, Minister, will do your part in Europe with conviction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u19	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u20	Mr President, allow me to make a brief excursus in order to contextualize our position in the joint motion with colleagues from Forza Italia. Italy, when since 1997 decided to introduce the hazard analysis and critical control points (HACCP), made a far-sighted choice, in the awareness that from food security comes a healthy population. This means not only longevity, but less health spending. Equally far-sighted was when it was decided in 2003 to bring the European Food Safety Authority to Parma, despite some recent changes in alternative protein sources, which we think should be remedied. Well, these backgrounds must put us in a position to keep faith in the ratio that inspired them, going beyond the need to simplify, ensuring the consumer that his right to information is primarily aimed at his well-being, resulting from a more conscious food education and the culture of healthy lifestyles. Convinced that the protection of human and animal health are inseparable binomial, and the pandemic viruses are the counterproof, having to overcome the indifference of waste - and there are in health as in agriculture - combining controls, prevention, appropriateness and circular economy. Hence the centrality of controls throughout the food chain to place food as the first step of prevention, starting with the fact that healthy food is the lintel of an efficient immune system. This is why, with the bill no. 1660, we intend to raise the bar further, with the aim of bringing out the criticalities of the nutri-score, investing in prevention, proactive controls, veterinary public health, innovative specialized training, fight against the antimicrobial resistance and valorization of the productions of excellence, certain that in food security we are European leaders and, as such, we must behave and act. [[Applause]] All this is perfectly in line with the aims of the other motions presented. The bill no. 1660, in fact, not only provides for the evolution of the European regulations, but also intervenes to correct the intrinsic inconsistencies of the nutri-score, enhancing the Mediterranean diet with a system of evaluation according to principles of transparency, traceability and responsibility, based on reasoned and objective indicators, to qualify the true excellences of the supply chain, to guarantee the nutritional appropriateness of the consumer's food day. A model of food product rating that can be replicated on a European scale, because we are convinced that, only by ensuring a healthy diet, we can first improve the health of citizens by combining and requalifying health expenditure, with a strict strategy of consumer protection with regard to the composition of food. It is necessary to focus on the changes in the patterns of consumption of the same, oriented to longevity and well-being, in order to ensure that the lengthening of the average age brings the consumer to health at an advanced age, contrasting the tumor pathologies deriving from the environmental determinants [[Applause]] , chronic pathologies, antimicrobial resistance. Secondly, it is necessary to promote the Italian agri-food excellences that must necessarily be made with territorial raw materials, no matter if not able to satisfy all world demand, but it must be clear that it must be a high-end product, supported by the institutions with only communication and image incentives, since the price must be such as to reward the quality of the product. [[Applause]] For all these reasons we believe that, by approving our motion, that is, in the context of an agenda that summarises all those presented, there can be no better hope for the future of our food chain and for the leading role that we must claim, not only in food safety, but also in the prevention and promotion of health, to support, with wide participation, the approval of our bill no. 1660, in the order review that must accompany the implementation of the PNRR. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u21	(at 10.20 a.m.) She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, the attention and care for the Italian product have always distinguished us, from manufacturing to agro-food, so much to occupy the world scene in the market of quality products certified to geographical and biological indication: many Italian products, appreciated worldwide, starting from wines, sparkling wines, fruit and vegetables, cured meats and cheeses, all of quality. These products are reflected in the so-called Mediterranean diet. The Mediterranean diet is important for many reasons. The Mediterranean diet is a wealth of knowledge; it has been developed over the centuries and takes into account seasonality, the need for substances and energy inputs that are different depending on the seasons. Our Mediterranean diet has the characteristic of being balanced in its principles. It is varied and complete, from fats to proteins. Moreover, it is - like all diets - a sort of language, an identity heritage, which has evolved over time. The constituent elements of the Mediterranean diet, such as eggplants, tomatoes, potatoes, are of foreign origin, American, but have been integrated and found their harmony. Therefore, going to extrapolate some elements, such as oil, and evaluating it only from the point of view of fats or sugars, does not make us understand its completeness, which is all a whole, is an ecosystem. The Mediterranean diet covers every seasonality and, with a secular knowledge, takes into account the needs of the different energy inputs of our metabolism, which varies during the year: therefore, nothing more distant from the standardized food that the multinationals offer us, which deceives with chemistry our palate and, over time, damages our health. Entering into the substance of the subject of the discussion on the following motion, three important aspects are worthy of attention: the first, that is, the products based on wine dealcolato; the second, the food of the future and the third, the nourishing-score. Only three aspects which, for different reasons, have provoked controversy; as far as the first is concerned, wine is going to de-alcoholize; with regard to the second, it is especially true that, as the FAO says, insects, as a source of natural food, are precisely nutritious; finally, as far as the third is concerned, nutrition score is a labelling system for food products which gives rise to a classification of nutritional values. Let's start by clarifying the first point, namely the products made from dealcolato wine. On the one hand, we want to fill a regulatory vacuum with respect to the sales denomination of certain products; on the other hand, there is the assessment of whether to allow the reinstatement of the volume lost in alcohol, with water, in de-alcoholized wines. The European Parliament has already expressed a negative opinion on wines with a geographical indication (DOCG, DOC, IGT), leaving a window on table wines. In Europe, we are trying to harmonize a practice that has already been adopted in some countries of the Union, and it is precisely these days that we are debating in Europe whether or not these products are included in the wine sector via the CAP. In Italy the world of wine - on the one hand - sees this as a scandal, as it would actually be watering down, but - on the other hand - there are those who see new opportunities. The second aspect concerns products derived from the larval form of heat-dried insect species, of which seven species are already authorised in aquaculture feed, but for food we only have the tenebrio molitor authorised by the Member States for a few months. These products are already marketed in many Member States and, of course, each one is covered by its own national legislation. The aim of this passage is to harmonize that standard, for their marketing, as a guarantee to the consumer. The third point concerns the nourishing score, that is, the colour labelling system that damages the production made in Italy and above all is asymmetrically informative towards the consumer. It is true that nourishing score labelling, such as the French light model, would be misleading for an effective balanced diet, with the risk of penalising healthy foods and promoting junk food. On this point, Italy proposes an alternative, i.e. the so-called battery-powered scheme, so that such models cannot be compulsory and it is also necessary not to exclude compulsory application for productions with geographical indication, because additional forms of expression and presentations must be supported by scientifically sound elements, so it is shown that the average consumer can understand the real and truthful message. I therefore believe that a system of prevention must be set in motion, through appropriate and ethical information, in the interests of consumer citizens, and that new market opportunities should not jeopardise products with a controlled designation of origin, a typical geographical indication and a controlled designation of origin and guaranteed for products based on dealcolate wine. In conclusion, protecting all this means rediscovering patriotic love and its identity dimension, in agreement with the other European States, to which we must have no inferiority complex. Just as with our Renaissance heritage we have contributed to the civilization of our continent, in the same way we can donate healthy food and a food heritage of inestimable value, returning to the Mediterranean diet, recognized and appreciated also by UNESCO. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u23	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u24	Mr President, one thread links the motions today to the debate in this House, for which food in Italy is not only a food or a nutrient, but also culture, traditions and distinctiveness. My presence today is linked to the value that food has for our country, also from the economic point of view and tourist attraction. And to protect this distinctiveness cannot but be a central element in government policies and I believe that all the motions that have been presented today go exactly in this direction, for the strong demand for protection of the distinctiveness of Italian food. There is a path that I believe is necessary to avert as soon as possible, immediately clarifying, at European and international level, the position of our country. The path that leads food to become a commodity and thus to lose its distinctiveness, leads us, step by step, towards the production of synthetic food. I believe that this is the thing to avoid and it is the reason why all together, in Europe, we will clearly say that this path will always see the opposition of our country. There is a close link - it has been said in many speeches of the general discussion - between nutrition and health, also as an element of prevention. And this element strengthens the need to defend Italian agri-food productions, because the Mediterranean diet - as Senator Tiraboschi said - is an immaterial heritage of UNESCO humanity, precisely because it brings with it the ability and the possibility to prevent many pathologies, affecting also the need for intervention of the health system, another economic aspect not indifferent. I myself, thanks to the diet that I have followed, save money to the National Health System, because I no longer need to take pills that, instead, I had to take in the past. [[Applause]] The value of the Mediterranean diet is called into question in this case by a labelling system which is not informative, but which is market conditioning and aims to influence the market and not give real information to citizens and consumers. In fact, assigning a color to food is certainly an immediate way of making the consumer perceive something, but it is absolutely untied by the real nutritional value of that product. Again, I quote Senator Tiraboschi: it is essential to grasp that communicative value - the traffic light, in the collective imagination, is perceived immediately, thanks to God, otherwise at the intersections we would do a lot of accidents - and that immediate perception must be the result of an algorithm that calculates, in a real way, what is the nutritional scope linked to the portion of food that comes daily or at meal taken by consumers. Compare olive oil to a gasy and sugary drink or Parmesan cheese with other types of food, not sensing that there is a difference in the quantity of product that each of us takes on daily, generates, in fact, a distortion that becomes conditioning. On this point it is clear and evident the support to our labelling system, to the nutinform battery, which moreover we notified in November of 2019 from the Ministry of Economic Development, Dicastery that I was driving at that time. It is therefore a system that I strongly wanted to propose, just in contrast to the nourishing score. I believe, however, that we must try to put together the information qualities of the nutrinform and those of the nouri-score. On this there is a dense dialogue involving other countries, because - as Senator Fantetti said - international involvement is absolutely necessary. It is in that area that the battle is being waged and, from this point of view, beyond the countries that have already supported the Italian position, such as Greece, Cyprus and Romania, other countries of the European Union are coming together; above all, the dialogue is under way with Poland, Slovenia, Croatia, Spain and, last but not least, with the French Minister. They are fruitful dialogues and I believe that the solution we will find will go in this direction. There are, then, other very important elements in the motions' texts, but I do not want to go too far. I believe that, given the value of the Mediterranean diet in terms of health and prevention, one should not ingest in the dietary habits of each subject, from vegan, to vegetarian, to those who use animal proteins, and therefore omnivorous. However, I also believe that it is right that the market should somehow bring the whole range of food supply to the consumer, with information which, however, needs to be corrected. I also believe that it is right, however, that the market should bring to the consumer all the rest of the food supply, but with information which must be correct. However, I believe that wine is wine, meat is meat and milk is milk. [[Applause]] and that the communicative confusion does not facilitate the consumer in his food choice. For this reason, and precisely because our distinctive products are also of great value to our economy, I believe that at least one argument on controlled designations of origin (DOC), controlled and guaranteed designations of origin (DOCG) and typical geographical indications (IGT) must be made clear at European level. Given that both the House and the Senate are expressing themselves on this, I conclude by saying that I am really happy to see that the entire Parliament recognizes the value of Italian productions. Our challenge is not only to continue to have productions that have to do with Italian craftsmanship also in the field of food, but also to bring quality products, which must not water down in quantity, to scale the international markets where added value is created. And then we have to have the ability to distribute that added value within the supply chain to get to the weakest part, which is that of the producers. With regard to the texts of the acts of address, as regards motion 371, at the first signature of Senator De Carlo, we ask for some minor rewordings. We call for the first commitment to start with the words: "to continue to take every initiative" without prejudice to the rest of the text; that the fourth commitment begins with the words: "to evaluate the measures necessary to ensure that, without prejudice to the rest of the commitment. In point 5, the incipit could be the following: "to continue with the appropriate initiatives at the relevant European fora, in order to counter the adoption of the nutri-score, so-called traffic light system, as a common nutrition labelling system at European level, capable of conveying it, and without prejudice to the rest. We then ask that point 7 be reworded in full by writing as follows: To study forms of incentive that will allow companies that will use the nutrinform battery brand to partially cover the costs incurred in adapting the labels. The opinion is therefore favourable where the above rewordings are accepted. The opinion is in favour of motion 381, whereas it is in favour of a number of recommendations on motion 382. In the fifth point, we ask that the words: 'to be accepted' be replaced by the following: 'to strongly support' and to introduce, before the words: 'the names' the words: 'the national productions' and 'the national productions'. As regards motion No 383, the opinion supports a rewording of the first commitment, which I quote: "to carry out scientific studies on the nutritional value of insects which also include an assessment of the impact on the economy, on food culture and on the landscapes and traditions of Italian and European food systems" and with a rewording in point 4, which I quote: To combat food waste through appropriate policies that include the promotion of the recovery of food surpluses, both through charitable bodies and through in-depth studies for the development of digital platforms that allow to encourage the practice of the use of daily surpluses in supermarkets and restaurants. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u28	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister, fellow senators and senators, I would like to say that we welcome the proposal to reformulate our motion, as put forward by the Minister. With the motion today under discussion by Italia Viva-PSI we are called to address one of the crucial issues that involve our country, that of malnutrition, and at the same time we are talking about food waste. Food losses and food waste are a great challenge for our time, all the more so at a time when, unfortunately, this issue has had to be dealt with in a much more incisive way because of the pandemic. We need to find the tools to eradicate the food plague: some 690 million people today suffer from hunger, while there are over three billion people who cannot afford a healthy diet. The pandemic has only exacerbated the problem, endangering the food and nutritional safety of an even greater number of people. To this dramatic picture, the deterioration of ecosystems and the impact of climate change must be added. At the same time, food losses and food waste do not appear to decrease and, indeed, in the past year, due to restrictions on movement and transport related to the pandemic, have increased further. The discussion that these numbers stimulate must, therefore, lead us to consider the food issue as a priority. On this very profile, the European Union is making very important progress, especially with regard to the production of a new type of food, based on insects, and also designed to cope with a gradual decrease in food, i.e. an increase in demand for it, as a result of climate change, famines and pandemics that I was talking about earlier. In this sense, the EU 2020-2030 Action Plan for Sustainable Food Systems identifies insects as a source of low environmental impact protein, which can support the green transition of EU food production itself. The Member States have recently authorised the marketing of so-called flour moths, which can therefore be placed on the market as flour, and which is now a key ingredient for a large number of foodstuffs. It is the European Union's first consent to an insect as a food, which comes as a result of the scientific evaluation by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). For Europe, of course, insects are a new food, alien to popular culture, even if in some cultures they have been consumed for a long time. To regulate its entry into the EU internal market is the Regulation on novel foods of 15 May 1997: the Regulation of course provides for a stringent assessment by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), which must conclude that that food does not pose a risk to human health. Who speaks to you is Sardinian and in Sardinia it is known that the so-called rotten cheese, which everyone knows for the presence of very small vermin, is an extremely widespread food with a very high nutritional power, which now begins to obtain recognition also from the responsible organs. Until recently it was even forbidden, but it has always been a fundamental food, very renowned and sought after in Sardinia. The larvae of the flour tarmac - which I mentioned earlier - are the first authorized insects as food, but they will certainly not be the last, since there are eleven requests for insects to be used as food under the scrutiny of the European Food Safety Authority. According to FAO, the use of insects as food for humans becomes particularly important due to the increasing cost of animal protein, food insecurity, demographic growth and growing demand for protein by the middle classes and it is certainly necessary to find alternative solutions to conventional farming. Insect consumption will therefore contribute positively to the protection of the environment and health. The benefits of insect farming range from saving in gas emissions and also in the use of water and land, to using insects as bioconverters to reduce food waste. They are therefore foods that can be cultivated and bred in modular systems, which reduce exposure to environmental risks and do not even require too much soil consumption. They would therefore also be suitable for urban environments, or islands far from the mainland. In this sense, they represent only a niche market for the time being, but they are clearly expanding. It is good, however, on the other hand, to be clear: the use of insects to solve certain food problems does not in any way constitute an attack on the Mediterranean diet. In fact, the use of noble insect proteins is widespread in other countries, but it seems unable to replace the noble proteins belonging to our gastronomic culture. It is therefore a matter of protein destined in a sectoral way only to some food sectors and would have nothing to do with the proteins of the diet made in Italy. What we are called to do instead is to grasp the most positive aspects, those that give us an entrepreneurial opportunity, even if it remains, firm and firm, the defense of the traditional productions that characterize our Made in Italy and the Mediterranean diet. Moreover, ecological transformation represents 40% of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, allowing new operators and production systems to create new jobs. We must therefore encourage these different possibilities, albeit with full respect for the knowledge and information of final consumers about the nature of novel foods that will be placed in the market. I therefore hope that the motion that we have presented as Italy Viva-Partito Socialist Italian, can serve as a stimulus and commitment for the Government to increase the study of alternative proteins, such as those of insects, taking care to contemper different needs, but all worthy of protection; on the one hand, the need represented by industry and business, on the other, the safeguarding of our tradition, making clarity on the methods of production and the same origin of food, also considering that most of the new products come from countries outside Europe. At the same time, it is necessary to launch every useful initiative to combat food waste both through awareness campaigns and through the development of digital platforms, which allow to encourage the practice of the use of daily leftovers in supermarkets and restaurants, another topic of extreme importance. We need to address the whole community directly in order to commit ourselves to reducing food losses and food waste and thus to the recovery of that type of food, in order to avoid a further collapse of food security and a impoverishment of natural resources. In view of the content shared by all of us of the other motions, as has already been pointed out by Minister Patuanelli, the Italian Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano Group will vote in favour, according to the opinion expressed by Minister Patuanelli, on all the motions with the changes proposed by the same Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u31	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, it is no coincidence that you, Minister, are here today and it is also a very good signal. As it is no coincidence that once again it is Brothers of Italy who urge the parliamentary debate on the issue of the defence of Italian products and producers. It is no coincidence that, as we have always said, our only interest was, is and will always be the national interest. It is not by chance either because we have already said that we would be useful, even without entering this Government; a government more than great compromises than broad understanding. We would have been useful and we are, without asking for anything in return. We are more useful today than ever to urge the whole of Parliament to take the form of a drift towards which this Europe, more and more of finance and less and less of peoples and nations, seems inexorably destined. A Europe that tramples on its own roots, its culture, its traditions and its thousand-year-old knowledge, in the name of a new order that would have us all reduced to mere consumers with the same tastes and guidelines, easily tame and therefore easily governable. In short, something far from the idea of freedom, but also from the very idea of Europe. Allowing the interests of the few to influence the lives of the peoples is not the spirit with which we have struggled to build the civilization in which we are lucky enough to be born and which we have a duty to respect and perpetrate. It is precisely to combat this vision that Brothers of Italy asked to discuss a motion to protect our traditions, our knowledge and our people. As we did last year in February in the House and as we did this year - Minister, you know - in a question time focused on the nutri-score. It is a motion that commits the whole Senate and the Government to say no to those who want to call wine a drink that wine is not, to say no to those who would like to call meat a vegetable pulp or even worse a synthetic artifact, to say no to those who would like to replace the Mediterranean diet - which I remember is a UNESCO heritage - with grasshoppers, larvae and other fried amenities, to those who would like to discriminate with the nutri-scores the traditional products to make room for those built in the laboratory in the name of a supposed health all to be demonstrated, indeed unprovable because absolutely incorrect, and finally to say no to those who would like to penalize our products again with Italian sounding. I immediately fugitive about the fact that we want to censor or limit the freedoms of those who choose to feed on larvae and insects: for us anyone can feel free to eat what suits him the most, be clear. What we do not want is the demonization of our traditional products, so you also eat grasshoppers and larvae, but don't tell us that they are better than our traditional products. [[Applause]] In order to prevent this happening, today a simple statement of principle is no longer enough, but it is necessary to become aware of ideological conditions that lead someone to take care of changing the Constitution, perhaps feeling like the founding Fathers without having taken a vote in the elections of their own condominium, to insert environmental protection and turn instead on the other side when those who defend the environment have always seen themselves under constant attack. [[Applause]] Yes, because those who have always played a fundamental role in the management of the environment are farmers, who have been doing it since the dawn of time, while those who today fill their mouths with sustainability until yesterday, but perhaps even today who talk about it, have never cleaned a path, cultivated a vegetable garden or milked a cow. This is not demagogy, it is not a banality like what I often hear in this House when it comes to the environment, but it is the very essence of the approach that we conservatives have towards the environment. We have always taken care of our land, our homeland, convinced as we are that the care of the environment passes through the care of what we feel ours, what we feel close to, what we call home or home. Even today we invite you to deal with the concrete and real problems that our producers, often alone, face in order to make sure that our products can be appreciated all over the world, because you will not be able to escape that we are under attack and that we must defend ourselves now and without delay. Since we are a patriotic and above all responsible opposition, we never point out a problem without giving a solution, we know how to signal a problem without giving a solution makes us become part of the problem itself. We do not want to be a problem, but we will soon be the solution to the problem of this nation. Today, however, with the same responsible spirit, we tell you how softly we believe it can be useful, what people outside of here know to be useful, especially those producers who, contrary to those who believe the star level of the Fathers founders of the Homeland, constitute the backbone of this nation and also contribute to our high salary. To do so, we must ensure that all the scientific minds, the most expert of the system, can prove the scientific utility of the nouri-score system and that they help and support what the Ministry and the Minister have already done through the decree for the introduction and experimentation of the nutrinform. We also ask that this experiment, which must necessarily pass through the data collected by the companies, not be borne by the producers, otherwise we will find ourselves horned and baked, but that all or part of that cost be borne by the State, aware of the importance that those data will have in Europe when we have to demonstrate the effectiveness of the nutrientform with respect to the nourishing score. And then, gentlemen, we need real foreign policy here. I appeal to everyone because it is true that this is not only an Italian problem, it is a European problem, which stems from the European vision of the farm to fork, of seeking a harmonised label. We must face up to those nations that have understood the deception behind it, to those nations that do not make themselves fooled by multinationals, finance and sponsorships, but that believe instead that Europe's true strength is diversity, its biodiversity, but also its diversity. We have always been different, we are against flattening, we are against globalization, we have never lived in paradises where everyone was equal and everyone down as in the communist paradises, we have never idolized them as much of this Parliament, so we are strong in our culture that we give to this nation. So we ask you to set up a strong embankment in Europe to convince those nations that have not yet taken a clear position to converge on the positions of Italy and the nutrinform, because this is a first step towards the dismantling of our ideals that, as the Minister rightly said, pass also through food. It's not difficult, just read Bill Gates' latest book to realize that solutions to climate problems are synthetic meat and insects. This is not the world in which we want to live; this is not the Europe of the peoples we have helped to build; this is not the world we want to leave to our children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u34	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I believe that today is an important opportunity to reiterate once again the idea of food and quality of our country's food. This idea is rooted in the concept of transparency towards consumers as regards production processes, safety and origin. This is an overall idea of quality that we want to provide to the consumer through our products. This deep-rooted way of conceiving the relationship with food and food is an indisputable heritage of our country. The Minister, in explaining, in the aftermath of his installation, the policy lines on which he intends to move, has put this type of reflection at the centre, which, as far as my memory allows me to remember, has for many years been the line on which the successive governments have worked in Europe too. In fact, the interest of our agriculture is at stake, but - I dare say - something more is also at stake. Our agriculture, the food and the food we consume have (something that can be said for a few other places in the globe) a deep roots in history, traditions and culture, of which are to some extent the expression transmitted by generations over time. I believe that our system of designation of origin and certification of production processes is there to testify to this. Among other things, even the numbers say it: those almost 20 billion euros of turnover linked to designations of origin testify how much part of our culture has very strong roots in this productive model. We believe that this is a heritage that must be safeguarded, in the interests of producers, our agriculture and also of consumers, who have the right to have all the information and the elements in order to be able to choose and decide what to use in their lives. I also believe I can say that this conception of agriculture, food, cooking and traditions is at the origin of the perception, which presents globally, of a world from which come authentic and quality foods. I believe that much of that image of Made in Italy as a place of production of authenticity and quality has deep roots in all this. The question then arises why we are here today, for the umpteenth time, discussing these issues. I think there are some real issues and other phony ones, agitated in art in so many moments. Among the phony issues I would like to include two appeared in the newspapers in the past days. The first is the bug-related one. I'm just saying two things. Most European countries are already allowed to market this type of product. In recent months, the European Commission has commissioned EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) to study this issue. EFSA gave its opinion, on which a technical committee of the European Commission gave a favourable opinion. The issue is the harmonisation of legislation at European level. The second question concerns wine. I don't think anyone here wants to water down wine or call wine something that has nothing to do with wine. There is, however, a theme: in Europe, de-alcoholisation procedures are already allowed, as well as the fact that there are markets that demand a wine with a very low alcohol content. There has been a debate at European level on the minimum conditions for still being able to call wine a product which has undergone a drastic reduction in alcohol. I believe that these are issues to be tackled absolutely on the merits because here, on the one hand, it is at stake the idea and the protection of the identity of a product such as wine that is characteristic for our territories, our culture and our traditions. On the other hand, we need to think very seriously and calmly about what we think is appropriate to tackle markets that we will otherwise leave to someone else. I repeat, I think it must be a very serious and calm reflection. I am convinced - and we have also included it in our motion - that the Ministry must move on this issue with great attention, because everything possible must be done to respond to the real needs, but having made it clear that our idea of wine, quality products and agriculture must not be affected. It would be good if we could make this reflection out of ideological clashes that have nothing to do with this issue. Then there is a huge real issue, which is the one that is behind the comparison between the nourishing score and the nutrinform. It is clear, in fact, that there is, more or less evident and more or less creeping, a cultural confrontation in place between an idea of agriculture such as ours, respectful of the bond with the territories, traditions, cultures, history, transparency and authenticity of the products and the creeping idea, but economically very strong, of massification, standardization, transformation into commodity of everything that concerns food, as the Minister said before, among other things by waving some issues that have a grip. When we talk about giving simple and easily understandable information to the consumer, we are dealing with a subject that clearly has its charm: if you could say in a flash everything that the consumer needs to decide what to buy, who wouldn't want to do it? It is clear, however, that if the choice to do this is to define a traffic light color based on the calories, sugars or salts present in 100 grams of product, comparing a glass of mineral water with a high quality aged wine, this reasoning is not standing and cannot be crossed. You have to be careful because this is one of the issues at stake. Then there is the whole question of not giving indications that affect competition: who does not agree in principle? If, however, this is transformed into not providing the consumer with the necessary information in order to enable him to choose knowingly, the question is another. There is, therefore, a very large subject to which attention must be paid because, as the Minister rightly said, it has a very strong ability to penetrate the general perception. The work to be done is therefore fundamental and important and we have a duty to carry it forward towards all Italian producers who behave honestly and who have done extraordinary work in turn. I also believe that this is a necessary job for our consumers, because we know well that we are proposing to them high-quality foods that are perceived as such by the whole world. There is no such thing as Italian soiling, because the global perception of our products is so high that many try to speculate by trying to emulate it. There is not for nothing a very important recognition of the Mediterranean diet by UNESCO, a recognition of our way of food, which is absolutely fundamental. I therefore believe that the issue is how we can do this, given the unity of the motions that we are going to vote on. I believe that the fact that we are all here today together to vote on these motions gives strength to the Minister to do so. I believe that the theme is also that of alliances. This game, beyond good intentions, will win if we can block, at European level, with all those who begin to understand that our point of view is important for the country. We will vote in favour of these motions precisely to give strength to the Minister and to bring our idea of respect for consumers and the quality of food in Europe and in the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u37	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I would like to recall something that some of my colleagues may not remember well or pretend not to know. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask you, please, to listen to this speech without turning your back on the Presidency. Please, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). In these years our country, in the field of agri-food and agriculture, has made enormous progress. What do you mean? In the sense that it has given a direction, year after year, with very clear choices, which - it must be acknowledged - somehow did not succeed from one government to another, but they had a very clear distinctive feature. These choices have focused almost exclusively on the quality and distinctiveness of our agricultural products and our agriculture. On the contrary, I would like to say here about our agriculture, because the real strength of Italian agriculture is the fact that it is composed of so many agricultures. There is mountain agriculture and that linked to the territories; it is the feature of the distinctiveness of territoriality. From here came the strength to bring most of our production to the level of great quality; this was the element of recognition that we have obtained at international level. Mr Taricco rightly mentioned the fact that our products are imitated (even through Italian soiling); when a product is imitated, this happens because it is evidently recognized the great quality. We've taken some giant steps. Think of wine: today wine is a tip of excellence, even in exports. We have won some challenges: think that only thirty-four years ago, with the wine scandal with methanol, this seemed a completely destroyed sector. After that terrible crisis, which not only cost people to die, but also threatened the reputation of our country in this field, there was a huge effort, which, focusing more and more on quality, on research linked to the territory, on the distinctiveness of products, has conquered all the international markets, making it precisely the field of products with a designation of origin become our tip of diamond. It has also become a very strong cultural approach. I would like to remind you that one of the laws that has been in some way a turning point in the sector (this we must recognise) was the law of guidance, which established the multifunctionality of agriculture, giving strength to our agriculture and our farmers; that is, it recognised the value of agriculture for the conservation of territories and for biodiversity. Think that only in the last hundred years, even in our country, has a huge number of species and seeds been lost. Therefore, that law has put the whole sector back in motion and has made sure that there was more and more recognition of agriculture for the many functions it carries out, also from the environmental point of view. Today, when we are living in times of heavy climate change that impact strongly on agriculture, we must work even more on adaptation and diversification and make agriculture a contribution to combating climate change and, therefore, intervene in a transformation of the most intensive productions and activities, which may endanger the very fertility of our territories. These have become a cultural value, because thanks to us there has been recognition of the Mediterranean diet as an intangible asset of UNESCO and are fundamental for cultural value. I have heard with emotion agricultural organizations and farmers' associations that have begun to say that food is not a commodity; it is a very complex thing. This, in my opinion, is such a strong cultural element that it helps our agriculture. It is certainly also the element of national identity and territories. How did we advance and defend this value? I turn to the Minister, who obviously knows this very well. In Europe, the battle over labelling and the fact that it linked the interests of farmers, our agriculture, quality and consumers together has been very hard and, as you can see, there is every problem. What we are discussing today, in fact, is a sort of response, on the other hand, to our fight, which is not only about labelling, but also about the origin of products, which gives strength to the territories that produce them and to farmers. Today there are all the possibilities, building appropriate alliances in Europe, so that proposals such as traffic light labelling can be completely stopped. Nutri-score is exactly the opposite of the battle that our country has historically fought for the recognition of the origin on the label because it flattens and makes no distinction. Our oil, in fact, which is internationally recognised also for the health benefits of citizens, would have red color. That would be absolutely paradoxical. These operations - we must not hide the truth - take place not only by the will of some countries, but because there are the interests of multinationals and those who want to flatten and approve all products. If there is no distinction, of course the quality cannot be brought out, closely linked to the distinctiveness. It is clear that the interests of our country are at stake, but - let us always remember - also food security. We must not give up on these initiatives and work and, therefore, the motions are good and we must remember that, unfortunately, there is also a penalty in some trade treaties. I know that many people will not like it, but there are some trade treaties which do not help us to exploit our agri-food products and which are likely to be harmful. I therefore believe that, in carrying forward and supporting - as the Minister does, and we do with him - our entire agri-food sector and its quality, we must also be very careful when we go to sign some trade treaties. I quote CETA, but I could quote someone else. In Europe, the initiative to stop operations such as "nutri-score" is built through strong alliances, knowing that the national interests of the entire agri-food sector are not only at stake, but also the food safety and health of the citizens. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u40	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, kind Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the motions that we are about to vote on are essential in order to clarify and reaffirm the commitment of this majority in support of the excellence of Italian agri-food: a sector worth 500 billion. In order to be calm, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is worth twice as much. They compare the two because, with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, Europe has given us a great deal of help for restarting, and we must be grateful for that. I am a convinced supporter of European values; so is the Group to which I belong and of which I am a voice today: Forza Italia. At the same time, however, when things are not going well, we must make it clear that the path taken is obviously not the right one and the right one to take. Forza Italia, both in the European Parliament and in Italy, has always been against the nutritious score system; we have always said so loudly without delay. I believe that clarity is an indispensable starting point, as well as indispensable and constant must be the commitment to protect the only sector that has resisted the tsunami of the pandemic. When many activities were closed, when the containers to transit from one part of the world were really few, the made in Italy continued to run fast, expanding into new markets, such as e-commerce. Only in Italy, in 2020, the purchase of food reached 2.5 billion, recording a more 55 percent. In the world it is estimated that one out of ten consumers consume Italian food. The export sector is worth 46 billion; no decline is expected. Agri-food is a real certainty for our GDP, just as the extension of golden power shows: there is a need for extreme attention and clear contrast because the nourishing score is not only a knot to be dissolved before the agreement on the new CAP. Rather, it constitutes a real attack on our excellences, on our quality. It is clear that European policy - according to the latest decisions - aims, among other things, to support food choices based on plant products. The openings to meat and cheese substitutes, hamburgers and vegan steaks, mothmeal as sustainable food are now explicit. I would like to reiterate what I have already said in this House on Tuesday. In Italy the agricultural sector, the guardian of our magnificent lands that give us quality food, has made giant steps in the matter of environmental sustainability, even before the arrival of the battery of aid in support of sustainability and the circular economy. In the agricultural field we are the greenest country in Europe, and we owe this primacy to the commitment of our farmers to protect biodiversity, to the spread of organic, to the efficiency in the use of chemistry and water. In this respect, we remember the 20% cut in pesticide use between 2011 and 2018, unlike France, Germany and Austria, where the use of plant protection products has even increased by 39 percent. It is therefore clear that our agriculture can combine in an efficient way the protection of the environment and the quality of production, contributing decisively to the economic growth of the country. The Government is therefore asked to promote this Italian green reality more in Europe. Even so, I am sure, the Mediterranean diet will win over the idea of a diet that invites us and our children to eat menu based on pea milk, vegetable hamburgers, moths of flour and, to send down the bite, dealcoholic wine. It is very necessary to deepen these alternative foods, with specific scientific studies, in order to give certain data on nutritional values and cultural impacts. The three billion that Europe plans to invest from here to the near future for the promotion of alternative foods could, for example, also be used to launch information campaigns on balanced and at the same time organic food regimes, with the typical elements that have always shared the Italian and European culinary culture. I say this because it is not only us at Forza Italia who remain grounded in the face of some sustainably alternative recipes, but above all the Italians who, for the most part, consider foods such as insects outside our food culture. What, then, are food safety standards? I wonder because we Italian entrepreneurs in the sector are very thorough about this. We invest more than 3 billion a year to ensure safety and quality for our products. With regard to alternative products, we therefore expect strict controls. These are the reasons why we at Forza Italia ask for the greatest commitment to create a common front in Europe against the adoption of practices such as the traffic light label, unacceptable for our country and our productions. With this label, the excellence of our tables would end up losing appeal to products like Coca-Cola, which would have green traffic lights at the expense, for example, of our olive oil, unfortunately marked with red. In this way, it would also lose the centrality of the indications on the label of nutritional values, which would be deprived of their importance. The equivalence would only be done by preferring a product at a lower cost and we know that the Italian elements have a high price because the cost of production is higher, precisely because of our high quality standards. Who buys Italian buys first of all quality and this we can repeat with pride. [[Applause]] In this respect, I call for a firm commitment to combat unfair competition in the area of production costs and to combat the phenomenon of Italian soiling, which, together with the real counterfeiting, can be estimated at EUR 100 billion globally. In Europe, for example, the sauces of typical Italian recipes are highly imitated, which make up 55% of the phenomenon of Italian soiling in the old continent. In conclusion, yes, the European labelling system must certainly be standardized, but it must be done in the most complete, impartial and respectful way possible. That's why, at Forza Italia, we have always promoted the nutrinform battery, the battery system. We do so today, in this motion, together with colleagues from the League. For this reason, which is in addition to the others already listed, I naturally announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group and I thank the Minister for the clarity with which he has confirmed today in this House that it is necessary to respond to everyone's request for the protection of national distinctiveness. I am sure that the battle on the nutri-score will see us winners along with the 313 quality branded products that are real medals at the value for our Made in Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u43	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we have said on several occasions, the food supply chain, including catering, the Horeca channel and everything else that is part of distribution and sale, is worth over 520 billion. We represent over 25% of gross domestic product. Exports amounted to over 46 billion. How much is it worth today, though, eating Italian in the world? The accounts are soon done. 140 billion is the value of our production and we export 46 billion, despite the pandemic. Italian soiling, the imitations of Italian food in the world, is worth 100 billion. We also have actual forgery, which is worth 60 billion for a total of over 340 billion. This is the true value of the Italian product in the world, if we could also cover Italian soiling and forgery. There are over 6,000 different types of cold cuts, 430 types of cheese, 350 types of salami, loaves, grapes and wine. The PDOs and PGIs, together with wines, are over 40 for each Italian Region. We are talking about over 5,000 recipes that feed our kitchen, with too high quality standards, to the point of triggering the dangerous idea of eliminating or limiting the annoying presence of Italian food products in the world. There is a frontal attack, without shame, on our dietary style and on our diet, which is based on environmental protection, ethics, health and sharing at the table. [[Applause]] These are very important issues! We see a shameful spectacle: we start with the UN, which declared our Mediterranean diet a world heritage of humanity and then contradicts itself in saying that it hurts, because it is too protein. There are multinational groups and economic powers behind all this, because they are aware that today more than ever, in the world, those who are masters of hunger will be the true master of the world. Many say that the next war will be for water, oil or precious metals, but there is a much more delicate one, much stronger and predominant in this period and that of proteins. The price of soya flour has doubled on the market, as the Minister said earlier, with an absolute capacity to interpret these signals. Even the price of protein peas is skyrocketing and the market for vegetable oils is growing: these are important signs to show that the trend is changing. Already on January 19, 2019 - we had brought it to the attention of this House - the EAT-Lancet Commission, on nutrition, planet and health, was presented in Oslo, which aims to transform the global system of nutrition. This committee has extraordinary economic resources and intends to propose food styles far from our Mediterranean diet model, based only on epidemiological studies, without having at the basis any clinical foundation that certifies its effectiveness and health. This model appears to have very serious shortcomings. These plans are seriously detrimental to the freedom of choice of the consumer, they would like to provide guidance on choices, through incentives and disincentives to consume a particular type of product and therefore a certain type of diet. Taxes, restrictions, exclusions, elimination of choice, to arrive at the end of a situation in which the State addresses healthy choices. I remember that in Europe in 2019 the sales of synthetic meat almost billion euros, with 208 million pieces sold. Compared to the last two years before, the market has already grown by 38%. This trend is against Made in Italy: let's never forget it. All this wants to condition the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on the allocation of the new resources of the CAP, putting in everything that has never existed in the peasant tradition and in the agriculture of our country and that is not part of the Mediterranean diet. It's so natural to think badly about what's behind this attack. The European Union, with President Ursula von der Leyen, as she is acting, is absolutely not a supporter of Made in Italy and indeed her belief is the nourishing score, which, as we all said before - the Minister did not mention it, but let's be clear - rewards Coca-cola light compared to extra virgin olive oil. Then there are, worldwide, figures sponsored by multinationals, who are a bit of a tow and a leader on this issue. They are the same multinationals that bill tens of billions of euros with food and eighty percent of their products do not meet the standard of healthy food. They admit it to the internal documents of these multinationals and you said so yourself. For obvious reasons I do not mention the names of these multinationals, but it is very serious. Think that, in posting the video of pea milk, they had the courage to toast, to say "Health!" and this is absolutely serious, it is not admissible. Not to mention vegan hamburger, another extraordinary theme: 52 percent soy protein, 19 percent water and other soy protein, vegetable oils, vinegar, aromas. But this is a burger, is this the future? For us this is not a burger and it is not the future. The European Commission has given the green light to the food use of worms, the tenebrio molitor; insects are part of the strategy from farm to fork for the sustainability of European food, with incomprehensible motivation. European food sustainability, by 2030, should have dictated, on the protein line, the enhancement of insects compared to the rest, compared to what already exists. We are deeply opposed to this. It is necessary to protect Italian food excellence with determination. Counterfeiting, application of protectionist measures, misleading and misleading labelling are evidence of a constant attack on Italian agri-food. It is true, it has been applied, with the decree published in the Official Journal on 7 December 2020, to which the Minister also participated, the nutinform battery, which assigns the score based on the presence of fats, sugars and salts, relating them to the daily dose. But we, with the bill presented by the Lega Group, at the first signature of Senator Cantù, AS 1660, want to encourage the achievement of high quality standards of Italian agri-food products, introducing a rating system for the certification of excellence, the reform of the prevention system, programming and real control of public health. We are already a step forward, as the Minister and those who follow Italian agri-food production can confirm: from the point of view of intensive farms, livestock farming, we are at lower emissions than the whole European system. Therefore, sustainability, the ability to turn animal welfare into special attention on the part of the farmer and the farmer, a force of will to meet the needs of the final consumer, who - I remember - is the employer of the whole chain: let's never forget this, this step is fundamental. Today we want to commit the Government to an appropriate initiative, so that a position can be accepted at European level which coincides with the need to protect designations. We want the Commission to take action to promote Made in Italy, to support our companies and the Italian agri-food chain, with a return, as was said earlier, to the first part of the supply chain. We must then make a promotional campaign, especially in our country. We, as League, have organized an important weekend collecting signatures for the defense of Made in Italy: hundreds of thousands of signatures collected through a slogan, "Eat as you speak". [[Applause]] So, let's speak Italian, let's eat Italian. It's crucial. [[Applause]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to remind you that from the UN attempt of three years ago, Europe's nourishes-cores today, until the last attack on the Mediterranean diet, these attacks have nothing to do with the interests that... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u44	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u45	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Behind the health of the environment hides the attempt to curb the competitiveness of Made in Italy. It is not health, but it is our market shares that go to the rest of the world and we must defend them. [[Applause]] That is why we will approve the motions that have been carried out and, declaring the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, I also thank the Forza Italia Group for collaborating and working together to draft these texts. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u48	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to stress that the excellence of our agri-food productions is the result of centuries in which there has been the greatest integration between tradition and innovation, between the skillful discernment between what is good to preserve and what is right to innovate. The geographical conformation of our territory allows us to cultivate variegated and quality crops that, with the ability of our producers, have generated this consolidated appreciation, spread throughout the world. The numbers of this international prestige are enclosed in certified quality productions in constant growth and in the various productions always looking for the best. Italy is the world's premier for the great care given to the methods of product processing and the transparency of the indications on the label to provide every possible information to make the consumer make a more conscious choice. Awareness in shopping is important in order to pursue healthy behavior. We are what we eat, so a health saving, as has rightly been pointed out in other interventions, comes precisely from our proper eating behaviour. However, from time to time, there are signs from Europe that alert both our consumers and our producers. We witness attempts to blur the made in Italy through unlikely solutions that would deal with health or the best marketing of the product, but that in reality seem only to want to destabilize our supremacy in agri-food, to the benefit of other particular interests. I think, first of all, of labelling with the nourishing score system which, simplistic and misleading, presents elements of contrast with the balanced diet of the Mediterranean diet. From this indication, for example, it emerges the absurd fact that olive oil does not appear among the recommended foods, when instead there will be a reason if, after breast milk, it is the first element inserted in the weaning of the child. This method, therefore, is not informative, but market conditioning. Rightly, both in Parliament and in the Government, the almost unanimous position is contrary to this labelling. To date, the alternative proposal is the battery-powered information graphics of the nutrinform, designed to provide information on the nutritional contribution in relation to the correct food style, highlighting the percentage in calories, sugars and salt present in the product, without establishing a priori what is absolutely negative from what is incontrovertibly good. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) is entrusted with the task of providing scientific advice on nutrients that are important for public health, with a view to defining the way forward for possible univocal labelling in Europe. The EFSA opinion will be issued by March 2022, but a public consultation on the draft will be held by the end of this year. Another warning has been given to the fearful possibility of lowering the alcohol content in some wines, which was immediately opposed in the European Parliament itself, at least for wines with a controlled denomination. Dealing drinks must be considered as a separate category and an alternative product is well produced, but it should be stressed that in no case can be confused with wine, all the more so if the addition of water is considered wine making practice. All the limits provided for in the wine production regulations, which have always played the role of curbing these qualitative drifts, remain firm. Attention must also be paid to the harmonisation of legislation between the Member States on the so-called food of the future, the one referring to yellow flour, i.e. derived from the larvae of the species of heat-dried tenebrio molitor insects, products already marketed in some countries of the European Union with their own legislation. The pandemic period that we are experiencing has evidenced that the primary sector is still today, in the technological age, a vital sector for humanity, that needs healthy production and within the reach of all, in which transparency must be a commitment in production as well as in marketing. In this direction, there are choices at Community level for the green deal, in which the strategy from producer to consumer finds ample space and sharing. The MoVimento 5 Stars has always been committed to putting in place numerous interventions for the valorization of Italian agri-food productions in the world and the contrast to counterfeiting. Italian soiling is worth 100 billion, with a record 70 percent increase over the last decade, and it is a real threat to the good things we know how to do and to our made in Italy. The name of a product, combined with commercial propaganda, affects the consumption and standardization of mass production products and systems create advantages for large multinationals, at the expense of the variety of food, small local productions and typical zero kilometer. With this motion we ask the Government to pursue the maximum transparency and correct information to protect the knowledge and the typical Italian doing; to protect our wine production and to promote the dissemination of clear and correct data on the nutritional aspects of food; to pursue at every level policies to support our agri-food productions; to strengthen the contrast to food counterfeiting and to support the correct food education, based on the Mediterranean diet, which has always seen Italy as the protagonist and now more than ever attentive to the increase of biodiversity and the protection of agricultural work. For all these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars worked in harmony with the PD and LEU Groups, with which it drafted motion 381, and firmly announces the vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u51	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, we have had an important debate, but I would urge you on another point of view. Sometimes we think words are interchangeable or anonymous, while food is not the exact translation of food. Food is an experience that makes volume, let's say, while food is specific weight and is great quality. The food you can put inside the boxes that we see now attached to scooters and bicycles to be delivered in the homes of the Italians; the food you can also try to put in those boxes, but when you get it sucks. Food, like a McDonald's sandwich or other crap, you can put it and transport it into the boxes of the riders, but a clam paste or a food that characterizes the Italian agri-food experience, if you put it inside those boxes, loses its identity. Unfortunately, Europe is moving forward and wants to bring food experience into the food experience. On the other hand, we must defend the tradition of food: in my opinion this is the great cultural challenge that we must face. Unfortunately, I see that this government, like the past ones, in European lovers and drunkards, does not understand what we are going to lose. It does not understand that Europe, precisely because of its identity, will never appreciate our agri-food wealth; that is why it invites us to reason every now and then on insects, watered wine and another time on milk that comes from anything but the animal world. Well, if Europe brings us to that experience, it can only be an experience for us who lose and fail. Defending the agricultural and agri-food supply chain means defending our heritage. So as far as Italexit is concerned, we would be inclined to abstain on the first motion, we will vote against the second and fourth motions, and we will vote in favour of the third.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u52	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. The motion-makers accepted the changes proposed by the Minister. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 371 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Carlo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 381 tabled by Senators Licheri, De Petris, Malpezzi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). SENATRICE. I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. SENATRICE. Mr President, I would like to point out that I voted wrongly. My vote is in favour and not against.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u53	Those who did not vote will report it. Senator. The voting system did not work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 382 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bergesio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No. 383 (text 2), tabled by Senator Magorno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I suspend the session, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 11.49 a.m. and resumed at 3.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u54	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Development, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Health will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Pinotti has the power to explain the question 3-02577 on the future of the automation department of Sestri Ponente (Genoa) of Leonardo SpA, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u55	Mr President, Sestri Ponente's Business Unit automation (which perhaps many can also remember under the name of Elsag) is - to understand us and for those who know this industry - a qualified and important part of Genoese political history and also of the present. In fact, we are talking about a company that deals with automation of sorting systems for logistics and airports, which has 400 workers and is still on the market in a qualified way. I remember that there are four or five champions in the world who can do these things. For example, Hong Kong Airport is managed with the automation done by this company (I say this to make it understand its importance). In spite of all this, Leonardo has manifested the hypothesis of disposal. However, we must have an industrial project and we must clarify what the project is and what will happen to this site and its workers. There have been many solicitations from trade unions and local institutions, but the answers are not adequate. There is great concern in the city and among families. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you what initiatives you can take in your role, taking into account the autonomy, but also the apprehension that a Minister must have with regard to an industrial reality that can present risks and that is so important for the city and for Italy. I would also ask you whether you cannot promote a discussion table with the company, local institutions and trade unions, because we are really talking about a valuable piece of the industry of our nation, 400 families and an entire city worried about what can happen to an important and qualified productive part. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u56	The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Giorgetti, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with reference to the subject of the question, I would like to make it clear that already in the course of a previous question time in the Chamber of Deputies we had addressed this issue and taken up what Leonardo had said about automation. The case does not present the characteristics in order to be qualified as a crisis of enterprise, but needs, as Leonardo himself emphasized, dedicated investments in order to consolidate the potential of growth demanded from the market. This is also due to the fact that the sector in which this unit operates is very competitive and highlights the presence of many operators of considerable size. With this in mind, Leonardo SpA has reported that, in order to guarantee automation the solidity necessary to ensure it a competitive ability also in the medium term and to give continuity to its activities in the Country, a path has been started to identify a suitable interlocutor to enhance its skills and to favor its development. This process, however, is still at a preliminary stage in which the company is committed to verifying the possible interest of third parties with a profile and attitude able to guarantee this unit the necessary development. The same has undertaken to inform all the actors present in the territory of the ulterior developments, in order to ensure the maximum transparency and the maximum engagement on the identification of the better industrial perspectives of the unit automation. It is useful to represent in this regard that, also following the numerous trade union events held, the company has communicated that it has forwarded specific communication to the territorial secretariats and to the RSU (unitary union representation), offering the willingness to continue the dialogue relative to the automation unit. Of course Leonardo S.p.A. wants to emphasize, even if this does not detect for the future of the automation unit, the important investments that on the area of Genoa has previously made and that I am not here to recall. I believe that this path, aimed at finding the best possible solution, requires a special table. In this sense, as was also requested by Senator Pinotti, this comparison, which must take place at the local level - and in this sense the prefecture of Genoa has given the willingness to organize - should involve all the social partners and also the expressions of the territory. As a government we believe that it is an important player of the country, also linked to strategic sectors of our industries in advanced technologies. Therefore, in addition to due attention to the workers involved, there is also an aspect of industrial policy and strategy that the Government obviously takes into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u58	Senator Pinotti has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u59	Mr President, I used a little more than half of my time to explain the matter, because the problem was well known: I would like to be able to go a little longer in replying, not much longer, by staying in time. It is true, Minister, it is not yet a crisis of enterprise: I understand that you can answer me in this way with respect to the instruments of your Ministry, but you also have so much experience - so I can tell you - in order to know that you may not have to have the crisis of enterprise. I therefore believe that, despite the role that the company must play, the Government can help so that it does not get to that point. I am aware that Leonardo S.p.A. says that at this time the core business is primarily defense and that this is another type of industry. I am aware that the company now has a very good and qualified product for the market, that there is a need for innovation and that to innovate you have to make investments in research: I am perfectly aware of it. However, because of the importance you yourself have stressed, Minister, I would expect from the company not one: It's okay, it's no longer in the core business, we sell it, but an industrial project, with the search for an industrial partner who is committed to maintaining the quality of the product, to investing on this quality in innovation and research, to maintaining the site in Genoa and workers. The city and its workers did not have any explanation for this. So it's not about not being open to understanding companies and business strategies, but things can't be done like this and selling can't be to cash out. I understand the search for a partner to strengthen, but it must be explained in this way; it is not about putting it on the market, it is not about what project and possibly asking who wants to invest what it wants to do. I therefore ask you, Minister, to give life to this table, because workers, the city, the institutions and, I believe, the country need these answers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u60	Senator Cucca has the right to explain the question 3-02589 on the prospects for reform of the honorary judiciary, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u61	Mr President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the honorary judiciary has for years been facing a situation of uncertainty which, at this point, requires an effective awareness and position on the part of the institutions as regards the identification of a solution, respecting the roles and the role that the honorary judges have played for years in the judicial context, which has even exceeded all expectations. According to the data expressed by the largest online platforms in the sector, almost 5,000 honorary magistrates operate in Italy and deal on the whole with about 50 percent of the litigation; only in 2019 they defined about 1,100,000 proceedings. All this obviously happened because of a lack of attention to the system, which allowed the figure of the honorary magistrate, who should have been the exception, to become the rule in the meantime. The issue of the honorary judiciary - it is clear and we know - has also been dealt with by the national and European courts, with a series of speeches; finally, even by the Constitutional Court. They all have a certain address, although sometimes the results have been emphasized, beyond what was the actual content of the pronunciations. Obviously, however, this has meant that the industry associations themselves have long been showing a deep impatience, denouncing the need for a genuine reform of the sector, in order to guarantee the honorary judges the recognition in economic terms, but not only, of their figure, as well as of the professional effort made, which has actually allowed the judicial system to stand up in recent years. Therefore, in fact, there is indeed a need for a profound reform, which will put an end to the ongoing disputes and above all avoid others and, at the same time, with the assurance of safeguarding the dignity of the work carried out by the honorary magistrates, which must be objectively recognized. Therefore, the point of this question is to know, also placed the approach from the entry into force of the law Orlando (it will be August 16, 2021), what are the guidelines of the Minister regarding the bill whose discussion has been going on for some time within the Senate. I would also like to point out that, in the opinion of those who speak to you, it is an objective draft law which should be thoroughly reviewed, in order to ensure the dignity of which I spoke earlier. We would also like to know what initiatives it intends to take in order to... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u62	Unfortunately, the three minutes have expired, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u63	The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for your question. The Ministry is working on the problem of the honorary judiciary. A study committee was set up on 23 April, which is currently working on the analysis of the most important issues and the critical issues arising in the public debate, as recalled by the interrogators and urged by the national and European courts. There are many fronts: there is a problem of defining functions; there is a problem of status; there is a problem of recognizing the protection of the work of the honorary magistrates; there is a problem of the realities of those who have already provided this service for the State over the years; instead, there is a new future for the role of the honorary judiciary. The regulatory framework currently in force, on which the commission is working and is carrying out a reconnaissance and deepening activity, is known as the so-called law Orlando, namely Legislative Decree no. 116 of 2017, which intended to carry out the reorganization of the honorary judiciary, declining a single statute for the category. This source contains the rules on the new structure of the honorary judiciary and, at the same time, the provisions on the honorary magistrates already in service at the time of its entry into force. Now, the complexity and heterogeneity of the positions of the various figures and issues to be addressed has led the committee that I set up to divide the work into two sub-committees: one deepens the issues relating to the honorary magistrates in service and the other studies the future structures of the category, also evaluating the proposals contained in the bill before Parliament. At the moment, however, there is still an intensive programme of hearings of various qualified institutional entities which can help to provide a clear picture of the analysis of protections compatible with the honorary task carried out. Among others, the profiles under study are the protection of social security, the universal allowance in relation to the commitment required of the honorary magistrates, the employment in the office of the trial, the extension of the competences to be handed down to them. At this moment it would be premature for me to make assessments of the committee's path, which will end its work on 25 June. Moreover, on 18 June I understand that the deadline for tabling amendments in Parliament will also expire and that the Minister will then take account of this, together with the work of the committee. We await the end of the work. I repeat that the Ministry has as its main objective the functionality of the justice system, which today appears even more urgent in relation to the commitments made with Europe. Of course, this can only happen if it is accompanied by adequate protection of all the operators of the galaxy justice, which are diverse and numerous. Any reform proposal, however, must seriously respect the framework of constitutional and European principles which have been set out in a very precise manner by the European Court, in particular, and by the Constitutional Court, which, last but not least, in judgment 41 indicated the benchmarks of any legislative intervention in this matter, including by reconstructing the historical role of the fundamental, but distinct, honorary judiciary compared to the professional one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Cucca has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u65	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister very much for her answer, which was very comprehensive, especially because she touched on the issues I wanted to address. I really believe that it is time to put an end to the uncertainty of the category and, above all, to restart the justice system in the most appropriate way. Your reference to constitutional principles is very important. At the same time, however, I have seen that it takes into account the main aspects, namely to give dignity to that function of enormous value that has sometimes been carried out for more than thirty years by some honorary magistrates, while by many others for fifteen or twenty years. I think the time has now come to put an end to the uncertainty situation and from his words it seems to me that the times are finally considered ripe. The answer - I repeat - has been very satisfactory to me and certainly there will be a need for great cooperation between the Ministry and Parliament in such a way as to arrive at the best solution and, once and for all, at the end of the situation of uncertainty and precariousness of the honorary judiciary and, in the same way, to the start of the exercise of the judicial function in the most dignified way, that is, allowing all legal practitioners to carry out that high function of which I spoke in the best way.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u66	Senator Dal Mas has the right to explain question 3-02592 on the revision of the legislation on the liability of local administrators, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u67	Mr President, Minister, the protest of the last few days of the mayors involves all sides and is fundamentally motivated by objective facts, namely a proliferation of investigations over the years that make the mayor's office particularly complex and daring in relation to responsibilities. I would like to say that, if you do not sign, you risk the omission of documents in the office; if you sign, you risk the abuse of office. The abuse of office, which according to the ANCI statistics is the most popular crime with regard to the public administration and the mayors, sees on one hundred investigations initiated, sixty acquiescences in the course of preliminary investigations, twenty acquiescences in the preliminary hearing before the gup and twenty referrals to trial; therefore twenty debates only two of which end with a conviction. This is the state of justice and the information of guarantee has now become - as someone said - a scarlet letter, no longer an act of defense and information of the person investigated. Mr Minister, you are certainly well aware of all these aspects and you know perfectly well that the complexity of legislation, which is the result of the excessive bulimia of these years, has in fact also led to an increase in other areas. I am thinking of some laws and also of the elaboration of the case law. I am thinking of the single text for safety in the workplace, which makes the mayors public administrators responsible as the leaders of any society, which also respond beyond the teleologically oriented areas, that is, beyond the areas under their respective protection, thus reaching the case of objective responsibility, which is not allowed, as knows who knows Article 27 of our Constitutional Charter. Recently a prosecutor of the Republic today retired, through the words of a well-known newspaper, said that the principle according to which the prosecutor has an obligation to prosecute is expressed in nine words and sixty-four lines, but contains a world. With regard to this world, we ask you, Madam Minister, if you do not believe that, in the context of the reform of the criminal trial, it is necessary to get out of a fetish... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u68	The Minister for Justice, Professor Cartabia, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u69	Mr President, I imagine that among the many facts to which Senator Dal Mas referred, and which perhaps originated this question, the last of which is the notice of guarantee delivered on June 3rd to Stefania Bonaldi, Mayor of Crema, concerning an accident involving a child who has crushed his fingers in a fire door of a municipal asylum; an affair that relates - you said so - to many others, which have no political barriers and have emerged in recent times regarding the criminal responsibility attributed to the mayors as the top figures of the municipal administration. We are faced with a junction of the most difficult and the most burning that are emerging in our debate; a state that concerns the issue of reconciling the interest in a constant garrison of legality and responsibilities related to compliance with the law with that of a sliding administration, that does not take defensive attitudes or even escapes, with the risk of becoming inert or paralyzing the public machine. Legality must be ensured without discouraging the assumption of public responsibility. When phenomena such as these occur, the activities of ascertaining responsibilities in complex organizational contexts may require to analyze the different levels within the decision-making and control body and to carry out investigative activities that may involve a plurality of subjects who, in different ways and with powers, participate in management and responsibility, in particular in the last mentioned case relating to issues related to safety legislation in the workplace. In addition, all parties must also be promptly assisted by the safeguards necessary for the defence. And it is here, in this junction, that paradoxical situations sometimes occur, because from the legal point of view the registration in the register of suspects, the information or the guarantee notice are procedural institutions put in place to protect the person drawn from the acts of the judicial authority. They are guarantee institutions and their aim is to ensure timely defensive assistance, so that no investigative acts concerning a person are carried out, without the person being aware of them and can be assisted by the defender. We know, however, that, in fact, communication to the person concerned of the guarantee notice often becomes public knowledge and risks triggering a mechanism of social stigma, to the detriment rather than to the benefit of the recipient. This is a point to which I am very sensitive and it is to return to the fundamental passages of the registration of the news of the crime and of the communication that is made to the suspect the meaning of protection that is proper to him. I will continue with two comments, one on the current law and one on the work being done by the committee on criminal proceedings. Indeed, in the current law, already today Article 335 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that registration in the register must refer to the persons to whom the crime is attributed and that therefore should already be identified as possible responsible for the commission of the crime. The Lattanzi Committee, which has worked on the reforms of the criminal process, has provided for a directive, in Article 3, which should cover the conditions for registration, which is already in line with the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, which requires specific elements of evidence and not merely suspicion for registration in the register. The report states that the delegation criteria are intended to specify the conditions for the registration in the appropriate register of the crime report and the name of the person to whom it is attributed, in order to satisfy the requirements of warranty, certainty, uniformity of inscriptions and to provide that the mere registration of the person's name (...) does not result in harmful effects on the civil and administrative level. I believe that the question of time, of the time when this inscription should take place, is also delicate: there must be specific circumstantial elements... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I will stop here, but know that this issue is on the agenda and will also be addressed in the reform package, which we hope will come to Parliament as soon as possible and which we have been working on over the last few months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u70	Senator Dal Mas may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u71	Minister, we can only wait with confidence and with due respect for what will be produced by the committee and therefore for the amendments. The fact remains that a prosecutor, who is in front of a crime report, today has to decide whether to choose model 21, 44 or 45 and, in uncertainty, chooses model 21: registration of the crime report for known persons. From here the media-judge circuit begins. I believe that the problem today is not the separation of careers, but extending the reasoning to the separation between the functions of the prosecutor and those of those who must bring this knowledge to the public, that is, between journalists and the prosecutor. This short circuit, in the investigation phase, has created in Italy an unviable system, not respecting the constitutional guarantees. Minister, I have heard and welcomed from your words a serious concern and a clear desire to respect the Constitution in these aspects: the immediate registration of the news of crime and the certainty that the news of crime is not a fake news, but a certain fact, the clues of which allow registration, on a precise model. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u72	Senator Zaffini has the right to explain the question 3-02591 on the withdrawal of health benefits caused by the emergency Covid-19, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u73	Minister, today we would like to deal with the enormous mass of benefits that make up a summary of suspended health or denied health care, in some cases dramatically denied. The numbers are known: from January to September 2020 52 million specialist and diagnostic visits would have been lost; 99 percent of breast cancer interventions, 99.5 percent of prostate cancer, 74.4 percent of colon-rect surgery would have been postponed; not to mention the alarm on psychiatric conditions. Could we do better than these numbers? Could we have arranged the whole emergency thing better? We'll see about that later. Today the theme is how we recover this huge mass of performance. In the most recent measure, the second decree-law supports, the government refinances in an uncritical way - at least it would seem so - with the same amount of money as the first financing occurred in the so-called decree-law August, half a billion for the recovery of these benefits; it adds even citing that provision, but without it knowing anything about it. What happened, Minister, of the half a billion that we have allocated in the August Decree-Law and that the Regions have received with the commitment to use it by 31 December? Without having the confidence of how that money was used, simply uncritically refinance the same measure with the same criteria does not match. Above all, Minister, we would like to know what the system measures are, because the scale of this criticality, meeting with the historical problems of the national health system, which have remained topical - I am talking about waiting lists, the training funnel, all the known problems of the ageing population, the chronicization of many diseases, determine a cluster of undoubted complexity that must be tackled with system measures. Let me give an example to everyone: it is useless to put money for recruitment, if the competitions remain deserted, because there are no professionals. Therefore, beyond putting money, which in any case is an absolutely useful and timely operation, we must understand what the intentions are to act in a real way on this huge problem. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u74	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogating senators who offer me the opportunity to touch on a subject of particular importance. On the other hand, we have already had the opportunity to discuss this subject with Senator Zaffini. There is no doubt that the comparative reading of data for the years 2019 and 2020, while taking into account a constant contraction in hospital admissions that has actually been in place for several years, with a hospitalization rate that has always been in decline since 2001 to date, shows a very strong decline in the overall delivery of hospitalizations in 2020. I only carry the data relating to admissions: a loss in terms of volumes of 1,301,048 benefits, undoubtedly attributable to the impact of the pandemic on the organizational arrangements of our health offer. In view of the health effects of such a large reduction in the delivery of diagnostic and therapeutic services, effective strategies for complete recovery must be put in place, reprogramming hospital and outpatient activity properly and promptly, in the light of the improvement of organisational conditions linked to the increase of vaccine coverage in healthcare personnel and the general population. The Ministry of Health - as you recalled - with the decree-law August addressed this issue, promoting an extraordinary funding of about half a billion, making it available to the Regions. As for the commitment of the resources provided for in the decree-law, the Ministry of Health has received from all the Regions the regional operational plan for the recovery of those waiting lists. Each plan, in accordance with the law, provides for an organisational model structured on the basis of territorial needs, as well as the benefits lost due to the pandemic emergency. It happened that in the autumn of the previous year - as everyone knows - immediately after the decision of the August decree, there was the second wave. Therefore, it is clear that the resources that were to be used to recover the previous one, in fact, for a very large part, have not been used, because the health facilities have not been able to recover the past, but they have had to again - as already happened in spring - take care of the pandemic emergency. On the basis of this assessment in the Decree-Law Supports- bis we intended to extend the duration of the extraordinary intervention already done throughout the following year, i.e. 2021. Clearly, the involvement of private providers - this is a difference between the two - is also envisaged in order to make the intervention plan more effective. The Ministry, moreover, parallel to the monitoring action already undertaken, has asked each Region for a precise report on the state of the art and the criticalities found, which will be the subject of further interventions. In conclusion, this will be the most important issue for our National Health Service in the coming months, because half a billion, as far as I am concerned, is only the very first piece of a commitment to which we will certainly have to stick very strongly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Zaffini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u75	Minister, I share your last words: this will be the drama we will have to talk about in the coming months for all cancer and cardiological diseases. The suspension of oncology follow-ups will obviously lead to a gigantic problem, which we cannot deal with simply by putting back some money. I repeat: money is an indispensable condition, but certainly not sufficient. We need system measures. Let me give an example: we know perfectly well that a thorough reform of the specialization schools is needed today and it is necessary to be able to use the residents to intervene in health care. We have acted with buffer measures, but we need system measures immediately. Failure to act on staff would also render unnecessary all the measures contained in the PNRR and in the territorial health reform project, which I know is being carried out at the Ministry. Basically, Minister, we need to approach with a different focus. We need to be able to act with system measures right away. We know that everything that has happened has happened because we have partly wrong - I say "mostly" wrong - but from here on we no longer have any alibi. If the Covid was an alibi, an excuse, a reason, today we have no more. Today we have a huge mass of backward health care, which is added to a chronic problem of inequality of administration of LEAs between North and South, which we must not face, but attack. On all this, Minister, we expect something completely different, but above all quick and immediate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u76	Senator Fattori has the right to explain the question 3-02586 on the realization of open day for the administration of AstraZeneca vaccine dedicated to young subjects, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u77	Minister, the anti-Covid vaccinations are proceeding at a sustained pace and the massive accession of young people is a source of great satisfaction. If it is true that vaccines are all effective, they are not all the same. AstraZeneca vaccine may cause venous thrombosis associated with decreased platelets, which occurs five to fifteen days after vaccination and may result in fatal outcome. This complication has been described in subjects from twenty to fifty-five years of age, but the people far more affected are the young women. Thrombosis platelet vaccine - it is not caused by RNA vaccines - must be said to be very rare; of course, however, in the context of a mass vaccination, even a very rare, but potentially lethal complication, can cause a significant number of deaths, even in subjects who, by gender and age, like young women, have a virtually zero risk of dying of Covid. There are many authoritative voices, Medical group volunteers of Genoa, the Scientists for Society (SPS), the Association Luca Coscioni, Gimbe and individual authoritative doctors and scientists who have launched an appeal to limit - as the Italian Agency of the drug (Aifa) suggests - the use of vaccines based on adenoviral vectors, such as AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson, on the over sixty. I therefore ask the Minister to know what action he intends to take to ensure that the open days AstraZeneca, currently without age restrictions, are blocked or at least repaired so that young people who have suffered so much in this pandemic are not put in further danger and must not pay further, especially young women; what action does he intend to take to ensure that the desire to resume a social life as it was before the pandemic, which young people aspire so much to resume, is not greater than the awareness of the risks involved in carrying out the AstraZeneca vaccine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u78	The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u79	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Fattori for giving attention to a subject of particular importance and topicality. It is precisely during these hours that a debate is taking place in the Scientific and Technical Committee on this subject. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) revealed a first sign of thromboembolic events following vaccination with AstraZeneca in March 2021, concluding that the benefits of the vaccine remained overall above the risks and that venous thrombotic events in unusual sites associated with low platelet levels should be listed as very rare undesirable effects. The EMA also recommended that the use of AstraZeneca during national vaccination campaigns take into account the pandemic situation and the availability of vaccines in individual nations. Having said that, on 7 April 2021, the Ministry of Health, by means of a current circular, taking into account the opinion expressed by the Technical Scientific Commission (CTS) of Aifa, recommended a preferential use of this vaccine in people over sixty years of age, based on current evidence, taking into account the low risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions against the high mortality of Covid-19 in the most advanced age groups. Subsequently, at the request of the European Commission at the end of April, the EMA concluded a further assessment by analysing the benefits and risks of the vaccine in the different age groups and epidemiological scenarios in the light of monthly infection rates. The outcome has shown that the benefits of vaccination increase as the age and level of circulation of the virus increases. These data were further evaluated by Aifa and it was reiterated that the benefit-risk profile is progressively more favourable to increasing age. The effect is all the more marked in a condition of decreased incidence of the infection as the risks of serious illness Covid-19 are reduced. I would like to remind you that Italy has passed over the last few weeks from a high level of circulation to an average level and is now to a low level. These evaluations will certainly be considered in the next CTS opinion. However, let me always remind you that vaccines are the real weapon we have to close this difficult season and that all those approved by EMA and Aifa are safe and effective. The vaccination campaign in our country has exceeded 40 million doses administered: it is a very encouraging result that is producing a positive outcome in terms of both reduction of infection and mortality and pressure on our health services.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u80	Senator Fattori has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u81	Minister, I remind you that the first purpose of a medical act is always the benefit, at least probabilistic, of the patient. The benefit of the population is an additional advantage that cannot be achieved to the detriment of the patient, in this case of young women. Let's not forget that the vaccine still has an emergency authorisation. The aggregated data suggest that the benefit-risk assessment should be done by gender and age group. Gender medicine has always been neglected in our country and little attention is paid to women in response to medical treatment. This is a case which I consider particularly serious: to have neglected the aggregated data on young women. I too - my story says this - think that vaccines are a formidable weapon, but this whole story has deeply undermined the confidence of the citizens and therefore I ask the Minister for greater authority in limiting the use of AstraZeneca in young women, in order to regain trust and protect the youngest population in our country, so that in the future everyone adheres with great confidence to vaccinations. This may have been an unfortunate case in which people's confidence has not been won, but I am convinced that you can make a quick correction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u82	Senator Romeo has the right to explain the question 3-02587 on the need for guidelines for the home care of Covid patients, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u83	Minister, you will be aware that on 8 April this year the Senate Assembly adopted by an overwhelming majority, with the signature of all the Groups, a motion calling for the updating of protocols and guidelines on the taking care of patients suffering from Covid-19, taking into account the experiences that doctors have put in place. On 26 April you issued a circular that basically retraces the old circular of 30 November, so with respect to the motion we have not seen any news, on the contrary we found continuity with the previous one and the absence of any involvement of the Higher Institute of Health, Aifa and Agenas. We have noted that there is no provision for the formation of any monitoring table that seeks to take advantage of all the experiences of all the doctors in order to improve the cure against Covid, that there has been no comparison with these doctors who have gone on the field directly, among which - to mention the most important and famous - Dr. Cavanna, Dr. Mangiagalli, Dr. Remuzzi, who have gone to the houses to visit the patients directly. The question is why this stubborn and unjustified insistence on a protocol of vigilant expectation and tachypyrin has been chosen against, in many cases, effective early and home care. The question is very simple: why? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u84	Mr President, I have always considered home care as an essential part of our health system and I believe that the circular home management of patients infected with Sars Covid on 26 April provides univocal guidance on the management of patients with mild forms of Covid-19 in the home on various aspects, such as the identification of the clinical state of the disease, the identification of the risk class of the patient, the monitoring tools of critical conditions, the monitoring of oxygen saturation, the warning symptoms, the principles of pharmacological management. These indications, precisely because to be applied to the patient's home, apply uniformly on the national territory, regardless of the regional organizational model. The recommendations of the drug therapy provided within the circular reflect, contrary to what has been said, the indications issued by Aifa, formulated taking into account national and international studies and confirmed by the evidence emerging from systematic reviews of literature and in accordance with the recommendations of the national and international scientific community, last in the recommendations published and disclosed by the WHO in the document "Therapeutics and COVID-19: living guidelines." On the need for a multi-disciplinary and multi-professional team work through the comparison and sharing of specific skills, I repeat that the circular in question was drawn up by a multidisciplinary working group made up of all the representatives of the institutions, starting from the acronyms you have indicated, of the scientific world and of the professions, all endowed with high competence and experience, who worked on the update of the previous circular of 30 November 2020, with the aim of providing operational indications in the light of the new knowledge acquired and of the experiences that have taken place both in the pharmacological and clinical fields, taking into account the indications of the Aifa on the individual pharmacological treatments and the opinions of the Higher Health Council. In addition, an important reference to telemedicine services was included in the same circular. On the need to strengthen home care, I believe that this Government is always very committed, in full harmony with the Higher Institute of Health, the Higher Health Council, Aifa and Agenas. In the PNRR, €8 billion is allocated to territorial assistance, of which €4 billion is allocated to home care. The goal we have is to consider the house the first place of care. I provide some data. In Italy, before this Government arrived, the coverage of home care for people over sixty-five was 4%, while thanks to the so-called decree relaunched in the previous phase of the Government Count II it reached 6.7 percent. With the intervention we are preparing in the PNRR we will come to be the first country in Europe for home care, with 10%. Today the best models in Europe are Sweden and Germany, with 9%. In conclusion, I assure you from the Ministry that I lead the utmost commitment on this ground. However, we must stick to the facts, which are the ones that must guide us all the time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Romeo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u85	Minister, I was hoping for a better answer, partly because, if we had to stick to the facts, if we had been able to intervene more quickly at home, two of our colleagues could have prevented a worsening of the infection. If it were as you say, it would not be understood why all those subject to home care then made demonstrations claiming that they were not heard. It's okay to allocate resources, but it's about the future. People want to be treated now and not in a few years. [[Applause]] Minister, I should like to make it very clear to you that we really hope that a commitment will be made in this direction. In his speech, he was a little betrayed - I hope he was just wrong - when he said the vaccine was the weapon. The vaccine is one of the weapons; the other weapon is the treatment with which the virus can be attacked directly. You're part of a party that talks about tearing down walls and building bridges. Mr. Minister, let's loosen up a little bit. Break down the wall with the doctors and build a bridge. You'll see, in the end, we'll definitely have an extra weapon in the fight against Covid. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u86	Senator Pirro has the right to explain the question 3-02590 on the launch of the National Network of Cancer Registers, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u87	Minister, thanks to the extraordinary expertise of 50 population cancer registers and 7 specialised registers and due to the extensive organizational structure in the territory, the Italian cancer registers have guaranteed high quality standards to the epidemiological data on on oncology. On 22 March 2019, Law No 29 on the establishment and regulation of the National Network of Cancer Registers and Monitoring Systems and Epidemiological Report for Public Health Control was approved. This law, in addition to the collection, analysis and publication of general epidemiological data, aims at epidemiological, oncology and infectious surveillance to reduce the risk of introduction or re-introduction of infectious diseases, whether eliminated or under control. It is clear the reference to the important role that could be played by this rule also in the current Covid pandemic, in relation to fragile subjects with cancer disease. Specifically, Article 1, paragraph 2, provides that within twelve months from the date of entry into force of the law, with regulations to be adopted on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, the data and the modalities related to their processing, as well as the subjects to be inserted within the said Network, the measures for the custody and security of the aforementioned data, guaranteeing at all times to the interested parties the exercise of the rights provided for by the European regulations on privacy, rationalising the information obligations, in harmony with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 3 March 2017, in the framework of an integrated and unique system of data flows, avoiding duplications and overlaps of health databases. The Ministry of Health may also enter into free cooperation agreements with universities, public and private research centres and with scientific bodies and associations which, for at least ten years, have been operating on a non-profit basis as part of the accreditation of the detection system. At today's date, the decrees have not found full implementation and we ask therefore to know: if the Minister intends to make known the state of the art and the time of issue of the regulation referred to in article 1, paragraph 1, of the law n. 29 of 2019, as well as the decree for the institution of the epidemiological report for the health control of the population provided for by the law in question; what physical seat is intended to be identified to host the national cancer register and its database; if it has been carried out to identify the relative resources, the staff, as well as the material and intangible infrastructures to support the activities of the register; if and what formal interlocations have been started with subjects having the requirements provided for in Article 1, paragraph 6 of Law n. 29; what initiatives are being taken to not disperse and preserve the extraordinary patrimony of skills operating in the Italian cancer registers; if and how they intend to confer in establishing national cancer register the data collected to date by local and regional cancer registers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u88	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Pirro and the other presenters for this question, which allows me to clarify a particularly important matter. In order to make operational the national cancer register provided for by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers 3 March 2017, the Ministry of Health, also involving experts outside the administration and responsible for regional registers and referents of the Italian Association of Cancer Registers (Airtum), has activated a special interdisciplinary working group that has prepared a text of regulation. The subsequent adoption of Law No 29 of 2019 required in-depth consideration to avoid the risk of duplication of health databases. Indeed, the aims pursued by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers are largely comparable to those absolutely meritorious attributed to the National Network by Law No 29 of 2019. The theme was therefore to coordinate the national cancer register, provided for by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, with the national network of cancer registers and surveillance systems and health systems referred to in the law of 2019. In order to avoid slowing down the achievement of the important information, statistical and health objectives at stake, it has been considered to continue with the preparation of the regulation scheme of the national cancer register and its technical specification, which can subsequently and hopefully merge, together with the other registers and surveillance systems, into the wider container of the National Network, whose regulation will be able to follow logically and chronologically that of the individual registers and surveillance systems. The national cancer registry settlement scheme has already been submitted for prior evaluation to the Data Protection Supervisor, who provided useful suggestions, also valid for the regulation of other registers provided for by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 2017. In addition, the request for the prior opinion of the Higher Health Council has already been made. Having said that, with reference to the request to know the physical location of the national register, I represent that, in line with the aforementioned decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, the register will be hosted by the technological infrastructure of the Ministry of Health. In particular, implementation, operational management and development will be entrusted to the Directorate-General responsible for the health information and statistical system, which will acquire for health profiles the opinion of the Directorate-General responsible for prevention. I would also like to point out that it is the Ministry's intention not to disperse the extraordinary patrimony of data collected so far in the Italian cancer registers, to enhance the expertise of external experts and Airtum and to preserve the extensive organizational structure, as demonstrated by the fact that, in the emanating scheme of regulation, it is arranged that the Regions realize their own cancer register, taking into account the registers at the time of operation. Finally, with regard to resources, I would like to assure you that funding for the implementation of the national register is provided for in the framework of the implementation of the PNRR and that for regional registers the decree is being adopted, in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to allocate the appropriate funds allocated by Law No 160 of 2019.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u89	Senator Pirro has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u90	Minister, we are pleased with the answer and attention you have shown to the problem, as well as your clarification. I would like to stress that any decree that wishes to centralize the activities of the registration of cancer cases must necessarily preserve the autonomy of the individual registers, passing from the filter of the regional coordination and making the data of the national cancer register not subject to authorization systems, with the aim of avoiding a bureaucratic drift and of promoting the epidemiological surveillance of the oncology pathology. That is why we hope that resources and infrastructure will be identified as soon as possible to support the activities of the national cancer register and the national cancer register network. We also hope that the methods of using the epidemiological data will be regulated by a scientific and technical committee with specific expertise in the registration of the oncology disease, epidemiological surveillance and cancer prevention. We welcome the communication on the collaboration already underway with Airtum and with all the scientific societies that have already shown great experience on the subject and thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u91	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u94	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, five years have passed since the last decision of the European Economic and Social Committee, which denounced how Italy was violating the European Social Charter. But the verdict is always that: in Italy there are still disparities in access to pregnancy interruption at local and regional level and the data provided by the Government do not show that the medical staff specialized in providing the service is sufficient. The Committee noted that, on the basis of the latest data available, dating back to 2018, the number of gynecologists who object to consciousness, instead of decreasing, has increased and that there is an inequality of access at regional level, which leads at least 5% of pregnancy breaks to be carried out in regions other than the one where women live. More than forty years after the promulgation of Law No. 194, which gives women the right to stop pregnancy within the first quarter, there are still those who propose its suspension or, worse, its elimination, undermining the sexual and reproductive rights of us women. This is how we still find ourselves today to become aware of how many Italian women have this right as a risk, to tell how difficult abortion is in Italy. According to the 2018 ministerial report, only 59.6 percent of hospitals practice pregnancy interruption; most of them do it within ninety days. The interruption in the following period, due to serious risk to the mother or serious malformation of the fetus, is not done in most Italian hospitals. There are still many, too many women who, in addition to facing an extremely difficult decision such as a termination of pregnancy, have to face this harsh reality, which in fact, as the data describe, does not allow women to exercise a right of law that has been recognized to them. Among the regions where abortion is not guaranteed there is also Umbria, which first eliminated the possibility of doing so in day hospital, and then take a step back after the new guidelines on this issue of the Ministry of Health. That's right: the Regional Council of Umbria, in full emergency Covid, tried to change the cards on the table. But not only in Umbria; even in other regions there is no possibility to perform abortion... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u97	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, as a Sicilian, I would like to clarify something that concerns my region. It is often said that Sicily has failed. No, Sicily has not failed; it is the regional government that has failed. The crisis most visible to the citizens concerns the municipalities themselves and is a stratified and dated crisis, almost exclusively as a result of the behaviour of the other public institutions involved in various ways. It is in the management of Sicilian local authorities. The current regional government, at the time of its establishment, should have ascertained the financial resources taken from the State to the Sicilian Region. It was an unmotivated erosion, as denounced periodically by the Sicilian Court of Auditors, not allowing the Sicilian Municipalities to meet the primary needs of the population. The inertia of the regional government, together with the unexplained silences of other public institutions, has led to the current financial crisis of the local Sicilian autonomous sector. Added to this is the commitment of the regional government not to make tax collection in Sicily efficient and functional, a collection which should also be at the service of the Sicilian municipalities. From this crisis, which will require the concrete application in Sicily of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), you can only get out by bringing political competence back to the service of the island community. It will not be the posterization of the terms of approval of the accounting documents and, therefore, the government of the Sicilian Region must be able to define, also delegation the activity to competent subjects and structures, with the State an agreement that immediately frees the financial resources necessary for the Sicilian Municipalities. It is the start of an activity that will have to end with the complete extinction of the debt of the State towards the Sicilian Region. If the Sicilian Municipalities are in crisis, it is utopian to think about the application of the recovery plan in Sicily, considering finally that these are post pandemic interventions and, therefore, additional and not substitutes. It is therefore necessary to verify in advance the application of Article 38 of the Statute and Law No 17 of 2018. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u100	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, on 4 March I put a question to the Minister for Sustainable Mobility Infrastructure, formerly the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, pointing out something that I thought was and still seems incredible. I refer to the fact that on 6 April 2020 the general manager for the supervision of the motorway concessions of that Ministry, whose name I do not mention because the fact is important and not to throw discredit on a single person, signed the extension of the motorway concession on Brescia-Padova of which Atlantia is owner, of the Benetton brothers, so meritorious in having managed the Italian highways, so much so as to bring down the Morandi bridge for lack of maintenance, which has turned into profits for the shareholders, in mourning for the families and disaster for the country and, in particular, for the city of Genoa. I indicated that this extension was made by this manager of the Ministry of Infrastructure on the basis - explicitly mentioned - of a resolution of the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning (CIPE) of 18 May 2013 that has a small problem: a year before the signature of that manager of the Ministry and, that is, on 21 January 2019 that resolution had been definitively cancelled by the Council of State. The applicants also appealed to the Court of Cassation which dismissed them, even considering their application inadmissible. I expected from the Minister a thank you for reporting something that makes the State give a property of its own to the usual Atlantia of the Benetton family the beauty of a 1,158,000 a day. Therefore, since I made the report, 113 million more have already been given to the Benetton family, the two-year savings for the famous cut of parliamentarians. In the three minutes I'm talking will be 2,414 euros given to this company and will be 2.5 billion until 2026. Well: I did not receive thanks from the Minister - patience - but not even the shadow of an answer. The question was submitted on 4 March 2021, 3-02325 Later I also submitted a written question, on 24 March 2021, the 4-05137 In addition, I did not receive an answer to my further question concerning the same company, concerning the lack of maintenance and investment on the Italian motorway network, including the Morandi bridge which, as we know, collapsed. I demand that the government also respond because these days... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u101	You have such a loud voice that you still heard yourself!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u102	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-335.ana.u103	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 15 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.12 p.m.
