ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u4	The next item is the joint debate on document LVII, No 4, and the attached Report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. The rapporteurs, Senators Faggi and Steger, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Steger.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u5	Mr President, the Document on Economics and Finance (DEF) 2021 has been transmitted without the National Reform Programme (NRP) provided for in the regulations of the European Semester and national legislation. In view of the central role of the reforms in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) and the European Union Regulation No 241 of 2021 establishing the Recovery and Resilience Facility, the Government considers that the PNRR can complement the PNR at this time. As regards the Italian macroeconomic environment, the DEF sets out the 2020 framework and the trend and policy forecasts for the years up to 2024. With reference to 2020, recalling the official estimates of Istat, the DEF shows that GDP has fallen by 8.9% in real terms, a contraction in economic activity unprecedented in peacetime. The forecasts of the trend framework incorporate the effects on the economy of economic policy actions and budgetary policy reforms implemented prior to the presentation of the FED. The policy framework, on the other hand, includes the impact on the economy of the proposed economic policies within the PNRR, which will be concretely defined in the September 2021 Update Note and adopted by the next Budget Act. The trend macroeconomic framework was validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office on 31 March 2021. The forecast for real GDP trend growth for 2021 is forecast to be 4.1 percent, down 1.9 percentage points compared to the 6% growth projected in the SDF update note scenario last September. The growth rate would increase to 4.3% in 2022 and then decrease to 2.5% in 2023 and 2 percent in 2024. In the policy scenario, real GDP growth is expected to be 4.5% in 2021, 4.8 in 2022, 2.6 in 2023 and 1.8 in 2024. Coming to the sections of the DEF dedicated to public finance developments, the figures for 2020 attest to a net debt of general government equal, in absolute value, to 156.9 billion, corresponding to 9.5% of GDP, below the level of 10.8 percent expected by NADEF. The deviation from previous estimates is mainly attributable to the revision of the primary balance for about 20 billion; the new estimate of interest expenditure for about one billion also contributes. In turn, the revision of the primary balance is partly due to an improvement in revenue of 3.6 billion and to a predominant extent to an improvement in expenditure of 16.4 billion compared to previous forecasts. As regards the forecast framework under current legislation, therefore trending, the profit and loss account presented by the DEF shows for 2021 a net debt of 9.5% of GDP (around 165 billion). Compared to 2020, the balance remains constant in terms of GDP in 2021: a deterioration in the primary balance (less than 0.2 per cent) corresponds to a similar improvement in interest expenditure (plus 0.2 per cent). For the following years, net debt is estimated to decrease from 2021 both in absolute value and in relation to GDP, with constant reductions in each year: minus 100 billion in 2022, minus 69.6 billion in 2023, minus 67.1 billion in 2024. As regards the public finance policy framework, it should be noted in particular that it takes into account the next economic support decree that will use the new deviation of 40 billion in 2021, 6 billion in 2022, about 4.5 billion in the two-year period 2023-2024 as a result of an increase in investment resources combined with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR). As a result of these measures, government net debt in 2021 will rise to 11.8% of GDP and then fall to 5.9 percent in 2022, 4.3 percent in 2023 and 3.4 percent in 2024. The budgetary policy approach will therefore remain expansionary over the next two years through a strong boost to investment and then embark on a gradual fiscal consolidation path - from 2024 onwards - provided that the assumptions on the evolution of the epidemic and the conditions of the international context of the baseline scenario remain valid. As regards the evolution of the government-GDP ratio, the preliminary estimate for 2020 indicates a level of 155.8 per cent below the level of 158 per cent expected in NADEF 2020 and the 2020 budget plan. The best result compared to the estimates is explained by the DEF with a better than expected cash balances trend. The public sector's needs at the end of 2020 stood at 9.5% of GDP instead of 11.8% expected in September 2020. A further contribution was provided by the slightly upward revision of the nominal GDP forecast. As regards the determinants of the change in the debt-to-GDP ratio, the DEF points out first of all that, for the joint operation of cyclical and discretionary factors, the positive effect of the primary surplus in the event of a net debt deterioration of eight percentage points has failed in 2020. Therefore, as a result of the continued economic impact of the crisis from Covid-19, the debt-to-GDP ratio will not be reversed in the NADEF 2020, which predicted a value of 155.6 per cent of GDP for 2021 being estimated to increase to 159.8 per cent in 2021. The updated trend framework is in fact worse than that of NADEF 2020 due to both the deviation of the budget, requested last January to finance the decree-law so-called support, and the new request for deviation annexed to this DEF. As regards the subsequent years of the forecast horizon, the reversal of the trend of the debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to start as early as 2022 with the policy target of 156.3 per cent to be achieved due to the decline in public sector needs (- 6.8 percentage points compared to 2021) and higher nominal GDP growth (+6.2 per cent). The ratio is expected to decline further in 2023 (155 per cent) and 2024 (152.7 per cent), mainly due to a reduction in the primary deficit and an improvement in nominal GDP growth.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u6	I call the rapporteur, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u7	Mr President, the second part of this report is devoted to the deviation of 40 billion. I'm taking back the last two lines of Senator Steger's report. As regards the forecasts as a result of the continued economic impact of the crisis by Covid-19, the debt-to-GDP ratio will not be reversed by NADEF 2020, which is estimated to increase to 159.8% in 2021. The updated trend framework is in fact worse than that of NADEF 2020 due to both the budgetary deviation required last January to finance the so-called support decree-law, and the new request for deviation annexed to this DEF. It would be better for Members to pay close attention, because then they will have to take their speeches, which will certainly be high-level, but in which they will have to have this situation very clear, because probably if we do not read very carefully what the Parliamentary Budget Office has written, we will do niche interventions but we will not exactly have the total picture of indebtedness. Together with the Document on Economics and Finance, the Government transmitted to Parliament the Report setting out the update of the Re-entry Plan towards the medium-term budgetary objective, called the OMT, for the purpose of parliamentary authorisation of the budgetary deviation necessary for the financing of further urgent interventions to address the epidemiological emergency from Covid. The report is adopted pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, the so-called reinforced law implementing the principle of balance-of-balance-sheet, which provides that temporary deviations of the structural balance from the MTO are permitted in the event of exceptional events, after consulting the European Commission and subject to authorisation approved by the Chambers by an absolute majority of their members, while indicating the return plan to the MTO. The Government points out in advance that for the current year the European Commission has decided to apply the so-called general escape clause, which ensures a temporary suspension of the budgetary rules in order to provide Member States with greater room for manoeuvre in order to bear the health costs necessary to face the pandemic and to counter the recessive effects of the pandemic crisis. This report follows a series of similar reports presented during the years 2020 and 2021, with which the Government has requested permission from the Chambers to find resources through greater net debt to cope with the pandemic crisis. In particular, with the authorisations approved in March, April, July and November last year, Parliament has allowed the use of a greater debt of approximately € 108.3 billion for 2020, € 32.4 billion for 2021, € 35.9 billion for 2022 and € 42.2 billion for 2023. To this must be added the further authorisation approved during the examination of the Update Note to the DEF 2020, from which comes a greater deficit of approximately 25 billion for 2021, 12 billion euros for the year 2022 and last January, at the request of the Government, the Parliament has authorized a further budgetary deviation of 32 billion euros for the year 2021. These resources have been committed in the general government budget to finance a number of measures contained in the measures approved since March 2020. In particular, some 108 billion for the year 2020, 31 billion for 2021 and 35 billion for 2022 have financed the measures brought by the decree-laws so-called care Italy, liquidity, relaunch, so-called August and so-called refreshments. Now, to these uses, we must add those of the budget law, which has resorted to greater deficits. The increased net debt authorized last January allowed to finance about 32 billion euros in 2021 the measures brought by Decree No 183 of 2020, the so-called termite extension related to health risks by Covid-19, and the so-called 2021 ristori. The latter two measures are currently being examined in the Chambers. With this Report, after consulting the European Commission, the Government requires permission to review the path towards the medium-term objective (MTO). [[Brusio.]] We are in debt to Italy, a moment of silence! I do a terrible job; I also had the Covid. I'm having a hard time talking! ( The senator takes off the mask. [[Comments]] ). Do I have to keep the mask?! I can't talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I assure you there wasn't a very particular disturbing action, but you're right. Please follow my colleague carefully. Please, Senator Faggi. , rapporteur. It's a shame. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can parliamentary assistants bring some water to the senator? If you think so, you can deposit the rest of the intervention. FAGGI, rapporteur. President, it's hard. We're talking about something important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He had someone near him who apparently interrupted her. FAGGI, rapporteur. No, they're still talking. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Faggi, continue. If anyone doesn't want to listen to Senator Faggi, get out. FAGGI, rapporteur. Because it's important. We are providing again... ( [[Comments).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u8	Please continue, though. We can't interrupt every time there's a hint of disturbance. Don't worry, the mic gets his voice right, you only hear what she says. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u9	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). With this report, after hearing the European Commission, the Government requires permission to review the path towards the medium-term objective, setting the new level of net debt, previously amounting to -11.8 per cent of GDP in 2021, -5.9 per cent in 2022, -4 per cent in 2023 and -3.4 per cent in 2024. The implementation of the next measures to deal with the pandemic crisis is therefore allocated an amount, in terms of greater net debt, of 40 billion euros for 2021, 6 billion euros for 2022, 4.5 billion euros for 2023, 4.35 billion euros for 2024 and about 6 billion euros annually on average from 2025 to 2034. These amounts shall include, for the years 2021 to 2033, the expenditure on interest payable as a result of the largest authorised deficit. Since 2034 the authorisation for debt has been devoted entirely to interest payments. My report ends here. I have made a picture of how much debt we have, which, in fact, amounts to about 200 billion, which we will of course have to repay. Added to these is an economic framework which must also bear in mind the PNRR and the recovery fund, with the absolute need to provide quickly, in the coming months, for structural reforms that take into account the public administration, especially the bureaucratic simplification of all documents, projects and draft laws aimed at improving the situation. In short, in the absence of structural reforms of any degree and of any kind, I feel I will conclude that this debt will be solely and exclusively debt, because we will not have the strength and the ability to return it, being too slow, too bureaucratized, with legislation too slow, that will not allow, when they ask for the return of this money, to have the tools to do so. All the reports in these dossiers begin by describing the economic situation of the Covid pandemic, predicting that with vaccination and remission of the disease you can gradually return to a normal life. Surely that will be the case, we will return to a normal life; but if there is no structural reform, if we do not allow businesses and citizens to work, if there is no change of pace in the true sense of the word, starting from here, from this situation, here in the Ministries, here as we legislate, we will only be destined to have debts. History says: after the pandemics there are famines. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u10	The minority rapporteur, Senator Calandrini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u11	I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u12	Mr President, at present the DEF is presented as a mere declaration of intent, which is impossible to assess, as the National Reform Plan is missing. I have already referred to these aspects in the general debate in the Commission yesterday. Also because I recall that Brothers of Italy presented a resolution referring precisely to the method and not to the merit, which was clearly rejected by the present majority. So, it's all been postponed to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. This too, however, is not attached to the DEF, as we also requested a few weeks ago, and which we still do not know a few days after its delivery to Europe. In the letter sent by President Draghi to the President of the Senate Alberti Casellati it is stated, in fact, that the DEF does not carry the PNR since the Government will proceed, subsequently, to the transmission of the PNRR only, which, in any case, has not yet been received and of which, therefore, we ignore the contents. In the discussion of the PNRR, Brothers of Italy had requested that the PNRR be annexed to the DEF. At least today we'd have something to discuss. Without PNR or PNRR, the DEF we are talking about here today is very little. It should also be noted that, with respect to the current legislation, in this document, in addition to the PNR, there is not a long series of documents, such as the report on the state of implementation of the reform of the accounting and public finance, provided for in article 3 of the law n 196 of 2009; the report on the interventions in the areas underused, provided for in article 10, paragraph 7, of the law n. 196; the report on the state of implementation of the commitments for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, referred to in paragraph 9 of article 10 of the law n. 196; the document on the expenditures of the State in the Regions and autonomous provinces; the report on the annual needs of goods and services of the public administration and the savings achieved with the system of the Consip conventions; the report on the monitoring of the spending objectives of the Ministry of the 2018-2020 cycle, so-called spending review, previewed also this from article 22- bis, paragraph 5, of the law n. 196; the report on the indicators of fair and sustainable well-being provided for by article 10, paragraph 10-a, of the law n. 196 of 2009. In terms of content, the DEF attaches great importance to the consequences of the pandemic crisis, in particular the so-called second and third waves of Covid-19 and the necessary containment measures. A long chapter of discussion could be opened about the fact that a rise in the pandemic after the summer was expected and that, however, the Government Count 2 was found unprepared. Nor, of course, could the Draghi Government do better for the third wave, which has chosen to maintain the same ministers, while removing the figure of the extraordinary commissioner to the emergency, which proved to be completely inadequate. The DEF entrusts the hopes of a recovery of the economy to the containment of the pandemic, possible only with a massive vaccination campaign. In this regard, it should be stressed the confusion of the Government which, in the premise of the DEF, assumes to administer vaccines to 80% of the population by autumn. This term, in the following pages, is more specifically referred to as the end of September, a horizon that does not coincide with the wider autumn period mentioned above. This deadline is updated a few lines later in October, in case of gap in the supply of doses, such as the one recorded in the first months of the vaccination campaign. In view of the management of the vaccination plan by the previous Special Commissioner, which was more projected on the purchase of primroses than on the actual need to vaccinate as quickly as possible, it should be stressed that this was clearly the case with the most fragile. However, even with a good performance of the vaccination campaign, the DEF provides that the period of restrictions is not over, so much so that it cannot be excluded that in the coming months the containment of the epidemic will require to evaluate certain and restrictions on activities that involve the greatest risk of infection. Therefore, there are still restrictions that this time, however, may not find any more economic support since always in the DEF, regarding the so-called decree-law support- bis, with the current deviation required of 40 billion, we read that the Government's wish is that, thanks to increasingly positive epidemic and economic developments in the coming months, this is the last intervention of such magnitude. The hope of Brothers of Italy is that the Government will assume instead the responsibility to restart the enterprises, imposing rigid security protocols. However, the safe opening can no longer be postponed. In this regard, the claim contained in the DEF that the economic system, net of operational interruptions, seems to have reached a form of coexistence with the virus is also contested. The DEF continues, there is a greater resilience of the economy, probably also due to the ability of operators to adapt both in terms of production and organizational choices and social behaviour. Furthermore, we read that in parallel, restrictive measures, even in their most stringent forms, appear less harmful to economic activity than those of the first phase of the emergency. What is written in these few lines is of unheard of gravity. If the Italian economy had adapted to the virus, we would not today have the demonstrations of the square in which many operators no longer ask for bonuses or support, but how much more honest there is and that is to be able to work. Too many activities are still closed due to restrictions; others are open, but with limitations; others will not reopen precisely because of the continuing emergency. We would like to hope that the above statement - and it is worth repeating - that in parallel the restrictive measures, even in their most stringent forms, appear less harmful to economic activity, is not the excuse that the Government seeks to continue to maintain restrictions for no more reasons (one on all, curfew). Coming to economic data, in 2020 the Italian economy experienced a fall of GDP of 8.9%. The cyclical data of the first months of the current year indicate that, after the decline recorded in the fourth quarter of 2020 (less 1.9 compared to the previous quarter), GDP continued to contract, although to a lesser extent compared to the cyclical decline recorded in the final part of last year. Although there are positive signs from the industrial sector, the prospects for the services sector appear less rosy, while consumption is maintained. Attention must be paid to the labour market, where there is a decrease in the unemployment rate, which has risen from 10% in 2019 to 9.3 percent in 2020, certainly favoured by the blocking of redundancies and by the Covid Integration Fund. On the other hand, however, the rate of labour market participation has fallen; in practice, the inactive market has grown to more than 5.6%. This means that almost 750,000 people have surrendered and a job is no longer seeking it. According to the DEF, by virtue of economic stimuli and the containment of the pandemic, GDP would recover by 4.5% this year and 4.8% in 2022, and then grow by 2.6% in 2023 and 1.8% in 2024. In the DEF it is stressed that these are never experienced rates of increase in the last decade, which will allow Italy to return to pre-crisis levels of GDP in 2023. However, if this may seem a victory, it should be stressed that GDP in 2019 remained lower than GDP before the 2008 crisis. Having available the funds of the Next generation EU and the 30 billion euros of the complementary fund established by the Government to carry out complementary projects, but remaining excluded from the National Plan, it is conceivable that more can be done for the national gross domestic product. They require a reflection apart from demographic dynamics in relation to the debt-to-GDP ratio, illustrated in the fourth chapter, which states that, assuming instead a progressive reduction in the fertility rate of 20% from 2020 onwards, there is an increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio marked over the long term. The ageing of the population, combined with the decrease in the population, in particular the young population, for a reduction in the birth rate, as indicated in the document of economy and finance, will produce significant increases in the debt. In view of these considerations, it is not clear why the proposal of Brothers of Italy to include in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan a chapter dedicated to birth. Similarly in the DEF, while stressing the risks of ageing the population entails in terms of pension costs, reform of the system is not expected. A separate treatment deserves the subject of tax pressure. The DEF notes that this increased to 43.1 percent in 2020, while in 2019 it stood at 42.4 percent. It is a higher growth than the forecasts, which instead assumed remained almost stable, at 42.3%. It is significant that in the year of the pandemic, of the decline in consumption and income, what has increased are taxes. We hope that it is true what the DEF reports, namely that in 2021 the tax burden will fall to 41,3, to reach 40,9 in 2024. The question of budgetary rules should also be mentioned. The Economic and Finance Document and Minister Franco confirmed that the Stability and Growth Pact will remain suspended in 2022, while it will probably come into force in 2023, subject to an announced discussion on this issue. On this point, there is no commitment by the Government to ensure that the Stability Pact or the new rules on budgetary constraints will only come into force once the funds included in the National Reform Plan have been provided; otherwise a cold shower, particularly for local authorities, could occur. [[Call the president back.]] On the other hand, the government asks Parliament to trust it and accept it in the dark, a bit like signing a blank cheque. We appreciate the intention expressed by the President-in-Office of the Council to provide further aid to businesses. But if we look back on what happened on the occasion of the restorative decrees 1, 2, 3, 4 and the current support decree, which we are discussing... president. It has already passed a minute and a half beyond the time at your disposal. Mr Calandrini, minority rapporteur. The two rapporteurs spoke twenty-five minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, that is not the case: your fellow rapporteurs spoke ten minutes each, as planned. Anyway, start finishing. Mr Calandrini, minority rapporteur. Finally, it should be stressed that for growth and recovery the Economic and Financial Document introduces some reforms, starting from a tax reform, but of which the contents are not known: it is not clear whether it will refer to individuals or to labour costs, rather than to other sectors. Ultimately, the DEF forecasts rely on the PNRR and the support-a decree, but both are documents that we do not know at the moment and this makes this document of economy and finance vague, shy and colorless. For all these reasons, we consider the Economic and Financial Document to be a simple declaration of good intentions, without, however, what is necessary so that the contents do not remain on paper alone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u13	I remember that, pursuant to article 6, paragraph 3, of law n. 243 of 2012, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the updating of the return plan is adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Therefore, the examination of the document will end with the approval of two separate acts of direction: the first, relating to the Report referred to in article 6, paragraph 5, of law n. 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority; the second, relating to the document of economy and finance, to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, when the Budget Committee began to analyse the Economic and Financial Document and, in our view, the part relating to the deviation, I wondered whether it and the deviation of 40 billion were consistent with the reasons why my political strength supported the Draghi Government. The answer I gave was yes: I found an act that responds to the addresses and reasons why it was decided to make this type of choice. I will be brief, because of course we all know that we are in a particular situation, with the temporary suspension of budgetary rules, with debts - as my colleague mentioned earlier - that they would not even be imaginable until a couple of years ago, with the suspension of State aid rules and with the prospect of the Resilience Plan that will be analysed next week. The fact that we have to take into account, however, is that the government, with the acts we are discussing today, first makes predictions with regard to debt and the general macroeconomic forecast, however prudent. What I would like to point out to my colleagues is that it has always been said that the governments - I must say everyone in the history of this country - were "widening up" a little. Today, however, we have very cautious overall estimates that are made in the document of economy and finance under consideration because, with great clarity, it is explained and said that we are subordinate to the hypotheses related to the pandemic, which could still blow up the overall system. In other words, there is not only a clear and - in my opinion - quite a cautious approach to how through growth we will be able to recover debt, but there is also an assessment that refers to the related risks that was, among other things, examined and underlined also by the document deposited by the parliamentary budgetary office. I would like to point out that the categories we heard at the hearing have, however, given positive opinions. I quote a couple that I think are significant. For example - I say this because it has always been a point emphasized also by Forza Italia - Confindustria has expressed positive assessments on the DEF, because it is previewed the capitalization of the enterprises and therefore the liquidity. But also the National Association of Italian Municipalities - as we know the Municipalities were at the forefront in the war on the pandemic - emphasized how the overall forecast of resources is what was expected, independently then from some corrections. This means that those who have written this document have done so with a look that is not linked to the twenty-four hours: that is what I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, this document arrives in an orderly and unwavering way to Parliament, after following its process, but above all it is a Prospective Vision Document, with all the risks that are being weighed within it. You will tell me that clearly, as a programming document, it must have a perspective view. However, you want for prudence, you want because it also calculates risk assumptions and you want because it has an overall picture also of support from the categories that evidently have previously shared the text, I think that the type of vision is a method of form and substance essential for what are today the needs of our country. We need a type of approach that responds to these needs, that is, that it has an overall vision and can give certain answers, knowing that we live yes at a particular time, but that tomorrow the governments that will come will have to face the debt. If this government succeeds in the fundamental intention of getting us out of the current situation in October and not to close the activities again, those who come after will not only manage the rebound, but also a world that slowly but inexorably will re-examine the parameters with which we are together in Europe, with all the consequences of the case. That is why the perspective vision is fundamental and that is why I believe that, if the political forces with great effort but in responsible form follow this path, they do so precisely because there is a need for perspective vision that takes into account today's picture, the risks of tomorrow, but also the need to make our country grow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u15	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u16	Mr President, I will make two political considerations first. The first is on the Dragon Government which, despite many difficulties, shows a very good quality of work: correct, effective and timely in decisions, authoritative and credible. On yesterday's tear for an hour of less lockdown, I remain at the news: the government was compact, the leader of a majority party was not; it is always serious, but it is not the same thing. The second consideration is the role of Parliament, at a time when its functions have been largely reduced. In the sort of permanent exception that we are experiencing, it is legitimate for the Government to assume more strength and greater weight, but that is not the point. The point emerged in yesterday's sitting when President Romeo's reservations about the so-called Zan bill against discriminatory hatred opened a debate between us on the subject, vital for the Senate, of the margin that remains in Parliament to legislate on issues other than the anti-conjunctural measures of the Government. I am also referring to Senator Quagliariello's intervention yesterday: the 1970s, years of terrorism and the majority of emergencies, have been rich in great institutional reforms and great laws strongly divisive on civil rights. Indeed, in rethinking those years with today's eyes, we can say that it was precisely that interaction between anti-terrorism measures, economic measures, institutional decisions and new civil rights that saved Italy from an absolute catastrophe. This theme, which is then the theme of the complexity of life, is now also proposed for us. In this context, the document of economy and finance that we are examining with the budgetary deviation, together with the report, the National Recovery Plan and the last relevant decree-law, acquires an importance that goes beyond the very important figures that these measures expose. There are here, in conjunction with emergencies, emergencies and indisputable deadlines, the foundations of the questions about the margins left in Parliament, beyond the approval of the acts of the Government. For months the Senate has been working on a small gauge, as if we were living in another world, quiet and far from the dramas of the real world. The game is played all between the Italian society and the Government and this game Parliament is a privileged spectator, but still a spectator. In the world a change has been born that has not stabilized yet and on the world chessboard the outcome of the game between the great and the medium powers remains uncertain. At such a delicate stage, in post-Brexit Europe and with the exit of Chancellor Merkel, the opportunities offered by the authority of the Dragon Presidency should suggest that we make the Senate the center of a great political debate on the two issues, exquisitely parliamentary, to which our future is linked: Europe and democracy. On the other hand, Parliament has not only lost much of its legislative power, but has also renounced its openness to the great political confrontations that could give shape to its role of guiding the country's prospects. The challenge between democracies and authoritarian systems will end not with a compromise, but only with winners and losers. The story between Dragons and Erdogan, in which I am totally on the side of President Draghi, is only one last sign, not least, of how harsh this confrontation is. A few days ago, President Biden, who has already announced a world conference on democracy, said that our children and grandchildren will do their graduation thesis on who will have been most successful and who will have won between democracy and autocracy. The 18th legislature, ours, will not be a constituent, as it could have been. Let us hope that the next, although so different from the previous ones, will be the case for the small number of Members. With regard to those elected to the new Senate, we have many duties, not only to adapt the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to the reduction in the number of senators, but also to leave a trace on future reforms. [[Applause]] The Dragons Government has taken over by two urgencys, the fight against the Covid and the deadlines of the recovery plan, but without structural reforms not even the billions of Europe will ever get away with it. The government is working on the reforms of the economic system, all necessary, indispensable and urgent measures, but even higher there is the big question of the reorganization of the powers of the State, Parliament and the Government. These are the shaky angular stones of our institutional system that, for half a century, have kept Italy in a permanent crisis and that, cascade, block the entire apparatus of the State. To take care of it today is the first duty of Parliament, not of the Government. [[Applause]] This is our space: to choose between a robust and efficient democracy and a weak and inconclusive system, destined to succumb to the challenge with authoritarianism. We must set out with frankness and intellectual honesty a timetable of our work which includes working sessions capable of returning to the Senate its role of address. Only a sound institutional framework can ensure success for the DEF, the PNRR, the next budget law and the many support decrees. A frank and honest debate means that we must be able to choose between a Europe of Nations and a federal Europe between a technocratic union and a political union, between the full powers of Poland and Hungary and democracy. It means that our Constitution, in turn, must choose between perfect bicameralism, differentiated bicameralism and monocameralism; between Italian parliamentaryism, French semi-presidency and German Chancellorship. It means that we must express ourselves on what remains of the 21st century, the division of powers and the rule of law. Finally, it means that democracy must be able to defend itself from the undemocratic power of large private multinationals. Mr President, debate on Europe and democracy is closely linked to the dramatic events of the crisis. Neither the DEF nor the PNRR will ever be able to save us without a strong scaffolding of the institutions and even if our democracy will not be able to grow in efficiency. Likewise, in the new world, no European nation can ever be a global actor alone. Only a federal structure can save us. Today, with the Government trying to beat the crisis, taking care of Europe and democracy is a duty of us parliamentarians, it is ours alone. Confining ourselves to the important task of converting the decrees-laws of the Government would place on our shoulders a heavy responsibility towards future generations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u17	Thank you, Senator Zanda, for your speech which, beyond the merit, on which you can agree or disagree, reconciles with the quality of the speeches of this Senate. Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u18	Mr President, I threw away the speech I had prepared, because I prefer to be in the wake of what Senator Zanda has now said. There are, in fact, two ways to stay in today's debate: one correct way is to remain tied to data and prospects of a financial and economic nature; another, of support, is to behave like senators and, therefore, to try to see what could happen in a completely reversed world. If the pandemic had ended a few months after its beginning, nothing would have happened. But now we have to start thinking about how to manage the continuous effects of the pandemic, even if each of us is vaccinated. Therefore, the Plan that the Government presents, as well as this quadrilateral that is made of emergency measures, structural reforms, PNRR and public interventions, but without forgetting the institutional architecture, what Italy does in Europe and the consideration that in this debate we must mention at least a number: between March 2020 and April 2021, considered the deviation announced by the Government at the end of April, the Italian governments have already committed a sum of 202 billion euros, that is, in thirteen months we have already exhausted the PNRR. We know, therefore, that the PNRR cannot be considered decisive in order to reverse Italy's fate in a reversed historical condition. I don't have much time and, therefore, I go by chapters, with the premise that you have to get used to living with the effects of the pandemic. Therefore, first of all, support cannot be given to everyone: Nencini cannot be given any support for the purchase of a scooter, nor of a bicycle; we must dig inside and reward and support those who need it most. The pharmaceutical companies or some food companies cannot benefit from the same support as small and medium-sized enterprises that are in crisis and more money must be put in place for the latter than for the others. Secondly, we need to make maximum use of the Structural Funds. Today we spend about 45-46 percent of the Structural Funds; either we at least double that percentage or otherwise we will not be able to govern a lasting phase of the effects of the pandemic. The last issue concerns Europe. These measures, Mr President, representatives of the Government, of course they belong to a State, of course they serve the Italians, but it would be reckless, politically shortsighted, not to include them in a European framework. I agree with the hypothesis and the proposal made by Senator Zanda - I say this for reasons of time without explaining it - that either Europe becomes the United States of Europe, with only one finance minister and one economic and defence policy, or otherwise, in the challenge between the United States and China, Europe will have no chance of escape. We will be a market, we will put money to overcome the pandemic emergency phase, but we will have no happiness at the end of our destiny. The Senate of the Italian Republic must speak of this: it must, that is, propose a session whose title is to redo Italy, as we think it should be, what we deliver not only to our children but also to the senators who will arrive. We need a vision. If there is no vision, Mr President, members of the Government, money is not enough. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u19	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u20	Mr President, for three years I have started every speech by greeting the Presidency, the Government and colleagues. This time, however, I will reverse the order and leave the Government last because it is directly to the Government that I address, trusting in the fact that it will give my prominence as a well-founded and will be able to intervene promptly. I will talk specifically about the bonuses related to the earthquake because, despite the proclamations of almost five years ago, reconstruction will not be financed in full. I could say to a number of colleagues in here: I told you so! I told you almost five years ago, but that's not the point. The point is that those accolli, that in some cases will be important in the order of some tens of thousands of euros, could have been shot down using the various bonuses currently in force: the bonus earthquake, the bonus facades, the superbonus and the various bonuses provided at this time. However, I am told that an opinion of the Revenue Agency - which I have been informed of recently and which I have not read - provides for the impossibility of double funding; therefore, with reference to the buildings that had a contribution to the reconstruction after the earthquake in Marche and Umbria in 1997, it is expected that they will not benefit from the current bonuses. In my opinion, however, the Agency is wrong, because reconstruction should not be governed by general and ordinary principles: implicitly this prohibition has already been overcome by the fact that reconstruction will actually be financed again this time. Furthermore, account is not taken of the specific nature of the rules governing the reconstruction of 1997. That's how I go into detail. The general discipline of heavy reconstruction was contained in Law No 61 of 1998, which did not recognize 100% of the cost, because a contribution was given according to a metric calculation, and therefore improperly at the foot of the list, which in any case already originally provided for a takeout. Not even for the lower incomes - the share of the scallop was determined by income - was expected to be 100% of the contribution, because it reached a maximum of 90% of the finishes; a percentage that obviously reduced for the higher incomes. So, first consideration: being provided for a takeout, it is clear that there was private participation, as it is evident that it would be arbitrary to exclude from the benefit of bonuses those who go to rebuild now. Second consideration: the reconstruction of 1997 did not pay for the improvement or the seismic adjustment, but contributed to the restoration of the damage. I would like to know, then, if there is anyone in here who thinks that intervening exclusively for the restoration of damage in a building of 1500, 1600 or 1700, in one of the many historical centers concerned by that reconstruction, can be reason for exclusion from a further intervention, since, since there has been neither adaptation nor seismic improvement - if we exclude the cases of demolition and reconstruction - it is clear that it becomes arbitrary to exclude those cases. It is evident, in fact, that in a building of 1500 to which only the damages are restored do not eliminate the criticalities, thus making it vulnerable to the new stress. One last consideration is that reconstruction - as I said before - was distinguished in heavy and light; the light one, in the Marches, for example, was governed by Law No 121, which provided for a maximum contribution of 60 million. This means that in many cases a contribution of a few thousand euros was made. Does it seem fair to all Members in this House who, for having received a few thousand euros 20 years ago, have now been excluded from the possibility of receiving a bonus? I agree that we must contribute to the revival of the economy and, therefore, I agree with the bonus and the superbonus, the bonus facades, the bonus earthquake and also the bonus gardens. But someone in here thinks it's right to give one to fix the gardens and not give one to those who have already been heavily affected by the earthquake in terms of ownership of buildings, sociality. Those populations were then forced to leave their birthplaces and go to some house hundreds of kilometers - and from a health point of view - in those areas more than doubled the consumption of anxiolytics - and therefore in health terms also the impact of the earthquake was remarkable? After all this, do we find it right to exclude those people from the possibility of receiving, in fact, the contributions provided for those who make ordinary discretionary intervention now? What I am asking, therefore, is not a favorable treatment: I ask not to discriminate against those populations. It is clear that everything I am saying is contained in the comment to an opinion, it is not governed by the DEF. That is why we have acted as a Group and as a legislative office, but I ask the government to make that work useless. We are not interested in putting a flag on a measure to take its merits: we are only interested in solving a problem. Therefore, make the work we are doing now useless; intervene first; give an authentic opinion to the Revenue Agency; stress that reconstruction is special and must be managed according not to the ordinary principles of the order, but according to the specific needs of reconstruction. You overcome this problem and I will be the first to intervene unnecessarily until now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u21	Mr President, the pandemic crisis that has upset not only the health organization, but also the very structure of all the communities involved, with the consequent economic and social upheavals that every day has touched and touches with hands, conditions the policy choices of each government. Of course, priority must be given to health measures. If they are efficient, effective, adequate and oriented in the right direction, they will have a domino effect on economic recovery, on the reopening of businesses and businesses, on the revival of employment and more generally on the ways of living everyday life and on the return to a social coexistence no longer dictated by distance and isolation. Maximum attention and priority must be given to the vaccination campaign, to its more appropriate organization, or rather reorganization, to its better homogenization throughout the national territory, to the availability of a number of vaccination doses finally sufficient to make it take off and to be able to reach ever larger groups of the population, thus allowing by autumn to achieve immunity of flock or mass. All this is, in any case, the key point to consider and binding premise for the other measures. In the field of health care, it is also essential - as also envisaged by the Government - to strengthen and organize the national health system more optimally, trying - on the one hand - to compensate for the deficiencies and the criticalities that have emerged and highlighted in such a striking and dramatic way during the pandemic and - on the other hand - to have a health structure that gives increasing importance to prevention, with a particular recognition to the importance of rehabilitation and social and working reintegration of the patient not more acutely ill. We need a new perspective vision of the health response that is increasingly commensurate with the real needs of the citizens, where a basic point is represented by territorial assistance and proximity and based on an organization that is no longer excessively centralized, but capable, even with the help of telemedicine, of reducing the overload of emergency and hospital lanes. It must also be able to give maximum attention to chronic diseases, with all the family and social implications, to disability, with the many and complex problems that accompany it, which must no longer represent the needs of the individual, but involve the whole community. The whole health mission included in the PNRR, with the great emphasis placed on innovation, research and digitisation of healthcare, as well as on all the strategic axes in which the Plan develops, obviously requires important economic commitments and investments. Let us not forget, among the objectives envisaged, also the necessary modernisation of the health facilities, equipment and technical-scientific equipment operating in them, the latter being increasingly indispensable, given the great advances of science and technology in the updated diagnostic pathways and in the new therapeutic techniques used for pathologies never diagnosed early or considered untreatable or attackable. From this comes the need for a further deviation of the budget, made necessary to combat not only the emergency Covid, as already said, but - I repeat - for a profound work of rebirth of our country, a new spring of development and economic growth. After the difficult, very long and very hard resilience Italy, in an increasingly open European context, more sensitive and more supportive of the needs, needs and problems of the individual partners, can and must embark on the main path of recovery. Speaking of Europe, I cannot help but make a passage on the contract - which I do not exaggerate to define as scallop - signed by the European Health Commissioner with the summits of Pfizer on 20 November, published yesterday by the Spanish newspaper "La Vanguardia". Beyond the price list higher than the one anticipated, there are above all two aspects to hit. The first is the absence of penalties on the part of the company in the event of non-compliance or delays in the supply of vaccine doses and their number; the second, much more serious in my opinion, is the detailed exclusion of Pfizer's liability from any damage to third parties. Once the vaccine is delivered to individual countries, any claim for compensation lapses, even for any reactions or side effects not described in the drug data sheet. The company cannot be held liable or face any compensation. We are in the presence of a total discharge of responsibility. Mr President, after this necessary passage, I conclude by saying that it is my belief that the correct use of resources recovered and directed towards shared investment programmes, which can actually affect the quality of life of citizens in order to look with a new and renewed confidence in the future, is fundamental and indispensable. Let us ensure that, with the contribution of all, that hymn of hope will go well, which more than a year ago was alluring in the sad atmosphere of the first lockdown, can become a concrete objectively feasible certainty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u22	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I would like to address you, since you represent the Government, and also with competence. I would like to address you in an analysis of a document which is particularly important for the institutions of a country: the DEF. The latter, however, is a document which, as I will have the opportunity to demonstrate, certifies first of all the failure of the previous experience of Government. Like the recovery plan, the PNRR, it was a bit the casus belli that dropped the Conte government, the DEF represents the photograph that certifies its failure. Why do I say that? I address myself to the new Government: be careful not to stumble on the same obstacles that have certified the failure of the Count Government. The constitutional freedoms, Mr Undersecretary, which the Conte Government has repeatedly violated, in contempt of Italian workers and citizens, those constitutional freedoms, alas, despite the firm and determined position of the Brothers of Italy, continue to be violated also by his Government, Mr Undersecretary. It is not acceptable for curfew to continue, it is not acceptable for people to be checked if they come home at 10:30 p.m. It's not acceptable! It is not acceptable, Mr President, for unmotivated lockdowns to continue. Learn from Stockholm, learn from Madrid, cities that do not represent the third world and are better placed than Milan, better than our metropolis. This is what you have to do if you have a minimum of dignity and respect for this country. But no, instead we continue: closing at 22 and closed companies. I think of sectors such as gyms or public play, which have been closed for a year; you are teasing them and not giving them any refreshment, because those you have foreseen in the decree supports are alms, and you keep them closed. Well, if in violation of constitutional freedoms the Conte Government has fallen, violating constitutional freedoms, Mr Undersecretary, the Draghi Government will certainly not make much way, but above all - alas - it will not make it our country. As for public debt, the numbers certify that this year we will reach around 160.5 percent in the debt-to-GDP ratio. Enthusiasts of economic history will remember that the levels of debt-to-GDP ratio this DEF will unfortunately certify, due to the mistakes of previous governments and also of this Government, we reached them a hundred years ago, in 1921, after the First World War. I would like to point out, as a comparison, that during the Second World War or during the 1929 crisis the debt ratio was just over 85%. Let's figure out where you're coming from. Well, in this debt problem, what are the prospects that we could try to derive from the DEF? I am rather miserable, Mr President, because, in order to get out of debt and to improve the debt-to-GDP ratio, we need one thing first: growth. Well, can we seriously and rationally think about growth when we have not talked about agricultural policies and industrial policies for over twenty or thirty years? I think it was the '70s or the '80s, when we were talking about agricultural policies and plans; the same thing for industrial plans. This is growth: combining agricultural and industrial policies for the development of the country. None of this, unfortunately, can be found in the policies that we derive from the prospective reading of the DEF. But what are you doing on the big issues as well? We'd like answers on real estate. Yesterday there was a Confession marathon to witness a cry of pain of Italian real estate in the face of absurd situations. I'm thinking about the 16 months of eviction blockade. You have placed Italian real estate on a welfare role that would be the responsibility of the State. You have placed it on the citizen: it is unfair, it is unconstitutional! I want to think about something else. I want to think about what you are not doing for two pillars of Italian industry. I am thinking of Ilva, the iron and steel pole. Our companies are now fighting with the rise in raw material prices, not least because we no longer have a decisive leverage in the Italian steel industry. But Ilva, which should be the first pillar in support of our enterprise, is not enough. Thank you, however, also for the shameful attacks that a few years ago the first party in Parliament made to the only Italian steel industry, you have ruined and you are ruining all the Italian industry! And don't worry about it, Mr. Undersecretary! What are you doing to give back to Ilva the dignity that the Italian State needs, which the Italian economy needs? Another cornerstone of the country's recovery is tourism and you are also destroying Alitalia. You are continuing to destroy also Alitalia, which is an essential cornerstone for the tourist development of our country. That's why, when we want to talk about growth, in reading the fantastic numbers, I almost have to say, that projected in the forecast of 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024, I should laugh, but instead it makes me cry. Mr President, what do we mean by the public debt born in 2020 and the public debt that is being created in 2021? I remember that, among the 70 billion of these weeks (because the 40 that you are preparing to approve added to the 32 billion of the previous decree make 70), combined with the almost 200 last year, we speak of really monstrous figures. What is being done, at European level, perhaps to talk about the concept of irreditable debt? Because the debt contracted in 2020-2021 because of Covid, we must crystallize it, otherwise we will not get out of it. I acknowledge that President Draghi has made, at least between the lines, some mention of the need to move the Stability Pact and, perhaps, to arrive at a concept of debt irredimiability. I am going to conclude, Mr President, and I want to highlight two points. Firstly, the seriousness of the lack of PNR and, above all, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It would be a foundation of the DEF, but we don't know it. We already know, unfortunately, that Parliament will not go into this matter, but it will simply be learned, just as, from what I understand, the ministers and the parties of government will also learn it passively. It is unacceptable, a serious democratic vulnus. Finally, I really end with a photograph of the... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I would like to conclude by saying that the DEF clearly also takes pictures of the criticisms we have made to the Government, because tax revenues, like general government revenue, decreased in 2020, as was obvious, but have increased in relation to GDP. This means that you have placed 99% of the dramatic effects of this crisis on the country's productive class, VAT matches, self-employed workers, professionals and businesses. It's certified by the DEF. With these statements, which, on time issues, I had to confine myself to the synthesis, we can clarify our position and, above all, our wish. Change your paths, gentlemen of the majority. I address my colleagues in the League and in Forza Italia: let us change our way and look forward. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u24	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2021 Economic and Financial Document at a very difficult time. 2020 has been the year of the worst recession since the post-war period, while 2021 will be the year of the start of recovery, but the recovery is still partial and above all very uneven. The manufacturing and construction sectors have returned to growth and digital has exploded, while the tertiary sector is doing much more work, with entire sectors that have suffered tremendous losses and will take a long time before regaining the levels of before the pandemic. The social and democratic holding of the country is at stake and Italy has a duty to be close to those who are suffering the crisis: the precarious left at home, the Cassaintegrati, the students forced to teach at a distance, the women and young people who are the first losers of this crisis. [[Applause.]] Italy must also be close to traders, craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, who are obliged to restrict or suspend their activities without being able to rely on an adequate protection network. We have a moral duty to understand the feelings of this working people: the discomfort, humiliation, anger and fear of not making it. We have a political duty to respond with concrete facts. It is necessary to reopen, Mr President, but we must do so safely and irreversibly, taking into account reality and not fake news. Britain is often cited as an example, as it is a country where the vaccine has been administered to 49 percent of the population and where the death rate is 95 percent lower than that of Italy. Despite this, Mr President, today in Britain pubs, bars and restaurants can only work outdoors, while cinemas, theatres and indoor sports areas continue not to reopen. I repeat, we are talking about a country that has done much more vaccinations than our own and other countries of the European Union. [[Applause]] The government has now decided on a calendar of reopenings, taking a reasoned risk, as President Draghi said. The duty of the forces that support the majority and the government is to help and share this choice and not to play as much as one and distinguish after voting and sharing the choices in the Council of Ministers. We must respond with the facts, which means speeding up the vaccination campaign and helping those in difficulty as long as the emergency lasts. The so-called support decree, which we started discussing in the Budget Committee, was conceived before the last wave of contagions, new restrictive measures and new closures. The Democratic Party was among the first to call for the resources of the new deviation that we will vote on today to be allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises, to self-employed workers and to that part of the world of work that is most suffering the consequences of the crisis. The government responded positively and in the DEF wrote, black on white, what will be inserted in the new decree. The plant convinces us because it goes in the right direction; a new round of refreshments is needed, bringing in the money as quickly as possible. The time factor does not recommend changing mechanism compared to the first decree supports, because it is better to replicate automatically to get the money before and, if anything, add robust interventions that reduce fixed costs, rents, bills and municipal taxes. It is necessary to intervene on liquidity because at the end of June the moratories expire and because in recent months the companies have contracted € 180 billion of new loans guaranteed by the State. The duration of loans exceeding EUR 30 000 should also be extended, as we have already laid down in the budget law for those of the lowest amount. We must start thinking about structural intervention because there will be no recovery until thousands and thousands of companies are crushed by those debts or have to sacrifice new investments in order to pay the share of capital and debt interest they have contracted in these months. Mr President, the most difficult challenge of economic policy at this stage is to keep together the emergency and the revival of development, which is the main way to bring debt under control, which has reached 160 percent of GDP. The DEF has precisely this objective: on the one hand, the deviation (the 40 billion that must finance what we have called the decree companies, jobs and professions), on the other hand, the bet for the future, the shock of public investment and the structural reforms to be discussed and approved in a few months. Spending all 237 billion PNRR by 2026 means a radical change of pace for public administration in our country. Over the past six years, we have made 243 billion investments. Over the next six years we want to add an additional 154 billion additional expenses (65 percent more). We can write the National Plan for the most beautiful recovery in Europe, but if we continue to take 16 years to realize the great works, as happens today in our country, we will not go anywhere. [[Applause]] This is why, together with the submission of the PNRR, it is necessary to take action on legislation, on governance for the implementation of the Plan. A clear chain of command is needed, close coordination between those who will carry out these works. The procedures need to be streamlined, the design capacity needs to be improved, the officials need to be made responsible, the monitoring and reporting arrangements need to be changed. We also need to make the most of Parliament's role in the implementation phase. I believe that the establishment of a bicameral Parliamentary Commission that controls, checks and dialogues with the Government at the stage of implementation of the Plan is indispensable, as well as indispensable is the establishment of channels through which the social partners, civil society and individual citizens can access information, interact with administrations, control the process of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Mr President, the world after Covid will change deeply and redo Italy today is... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Just like a hundred years ago, after another post-war period. The reforms serve for change and the DEF indicates them for titles: public administration, justice, competition, social shock absorbers and tax. These are politically potentially divisible issues. These reforms will require a clear assumption of responsibility of the forces supporting this Government and a strong capacity for political synthesis of the Government and the President of the Council. Italy needs a pact for reconstruction, a social pact, like the one that brought the country out of a dramatic crisis in 1993. Then the priority was income policy, today it is development, work, investment and reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u26	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u27	Mr Misiani (PD). This is the meaning of the proposal of Enrico Letta, of the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party will play its part in this direction, bringing its own contribution of ideas to the table. The same must be done by all political and social forces because, today more than ever, we have a duty to put Italy first and to do everything that is necessary - whatever it takes, the President of the Council would say - to help Italy to restart. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u28	Colleagues, I ask you to measure your interventions at the time available.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u30	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would have preferred this important debate to take place on the day of yesterday, 21 April, the anniversary of the foundation of Rome (753 B.C.), as well as the anniversary of the promulgation of the codex system (1942) which is still the architrave of our legal system. Instead, we talk about concrete matters, we have the government representative here. On the issue of outdoor restaurants, they tell me in the North and in the inner areas of the South that working outdoors is quite difficult, at least for a month or two, and that occupying spaces, roads and parking spaces, ingenious discussions that also go to the hands. I would point out to the Government (which remains represented) another problem, that of postponing the end of the approval of the accounts of the Municipalities from 30 April to 31 May: I know that there is a debate going on and I would ask for an acceleration and a definition. But let's come to the numbers of the document of economy and finance and of the deviation; they are numbers that make you shudder. There is a contraction in tax revenues, obviously due to the concessions given in installment, delay and postponement and also because the vertical fall in GDP of 8.9% (if it is right, because in my opinion it is something more) in 2020, with a rebound of 4.1 in 2021, is really worrying, with a deficit of 11.8%. I repeat these figures which are known to everyone in this House, precisely because they make people shudder. Yet there are conflicting signs: BOTs and BTPs at twenty, thirty and fifty years in auctions last days have gone to steal, with an interest of 0.75 percent for the first four years that then grows slightly. There have been requests from all over the world. Italy still has some confidence, for a number of reasons. Have we, however, the ability to repay, which we have been taught at school, the public debt, the debt to Europe, the debt to the European Central Bank and the debt to private individuals (because the NPLs are about to burst, which will grow to an astonishing extent)? The figures, in fact, sooner or later you pay and you reason and work on them or you have to cancel them (and God doesn't want to). Today's ruling classes, the non-political classes of public administration and CEO capitalism, no longer understand these things because they work on algorithms and no longer know reality. I asked some managers if they'd ever gone to visit the garbage department at the bottom of their plant, maybe by bike. I've been told that they haven't gone for a year, maybe two. Maybe they'd better go check it out. What to do, therefore (as Lenin said)? If work develops as it should develop, public and private, there will be problems for the environment, because, before reaching the circular economy, reforestation, all the purposes we do and which are widely shared, working at the pace necessary to achieve growth will create pollution. Investment in a first phase will have the same effect, but it must be done, especially on health care, which we have forgotten for too long, and on large public works: first the roads, the bridges, then the fiber optic system, to get to digitalization. Let us not start from the bottom: we must redo fundamental public works, we must create wealth. I support, together with Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, the instrument, launched these days, of vouchers: vouchers for everyone. Work is fine, as long as you work. To extend the debt with the guarantee of the state to thirty is always a proposal of the vice minister Pichetto Fratin; to speak of building and fiscal pardon, perhaps changing his name, in my opinion it is not a blasphemy: it can be proposed and can be a sign of a change, of a regularization of the state of fact. What are people's moods? People who talk to us ask us when they can start interventions with the 110% bonus, if every day - and some of us repeat it to boredom here - there is a new interpretation. It is so and it is related to the concept of building condon. Those who follow these matters know that they are. Privates want to invest, but they want certainty. The decree for reopenings was approved yesterday and discussions grew. It is the beginning of some certainty, for which it also takes a bit of luck. Above all, President Draghi - or whoever for him - needs to buy vaccines all over the world at any price. Then the structure of Italy is able to vaccinate. Support, as one colleague said a few minutes ago, must be quick and must be provided to those who are due, because someone has not suffered, indeed has gained from the pandemic. But after a year of detention some sectors are really in misery. Unfortunately, we live at a time when there is too much controversy, either because of or because of social media, television and newspapers. But this is society, this is the world and these are the times. The idea is that we are living a period of lean cows, especially for the money of the State, and that thanks to the recovery fund - which is debt, I repeat - we can make some ideological public shopping (the new green deal is fine, but it is ideological) and public spending - God forbid - clientele and welfare. This is not to mention the choices of past governments, which we in Forza Italia have always condemned in this House. There has been no reduction in public expenditure, but there are some absurd demands from sectors that have not been touched. This makes me say that the crisis in society is also very pre-political: it depends not only on us, but on an ongoing change in a hedonist society. Therefore, although we share the motto of Gino Bartali, that is, "It's all to be redone," but with responsibility, we are going to approve the deviation and the DEF. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u31	Senator Magorno is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u32	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, even today, in 2021, Italy remains a sadly split country in half, with a gap between North and South becoming ever wider and evident in the present moment of serious health and economic crisis that we are all experiencing. In this context, the Document on Economics and Finance not only constitutes an important tool for relaunching the economy, but can also be the framework to start filling the historic gap between the two Italies and to allow the Mezzogiorno to be put concretely at the center of a framework of development and national growth. The South needs serious investment and work, not welfare measures. We would like the income of citizenship to be transformed into labour income. The South needs interventions aimed primarily at a vital protagonism of the younger generations. A precious capital that unfortunately has been lost over the years: girls and boys forced to emigrate to find opportunities and areas of affirmation. Employment, increased participation of women and young people in the labour market, health, essential services, school, public administration and infrastructure are just some of the priorities that must accompany the measures that the Government intends to implement for the Mezzogiorno of Italy. A solid medium-term project is therefore needed, with targeted and precise actions aimed at the development of the Mezzogiorno through a series of strategic projects. I am referring, for example, to the high speed, with the construction of the necessary infrastructure to give full uniformity in the connections. But I also think of the safety of roads and highways, the port of Gioia Tauro, central port of call of the Mediterranean, and of interventions to strengthen the productive areas, tourism, commerce and entrepreneurship. Only by activating the resources of each territory and betting on cohesion and only by investing in human capital, by bringing back to the South the brains we have lost, can we hope to relaunch our nation. It is clear then that a new economic scenario is needed also for the Mezzogiorno of Italy, with the same opportunities and prospects for development given to the Centre-North. Italy grows only if the South grows: President Draghi himself said so as Governor of the Bank of Italy. And without the draw of the Mezzogiorno, our country will continue to lag behind Europe and the rest of the world. I shall conclude my speech. To achieve these goals, the mayors of the South have won the Network of Southern Recovery: we will find ourselves on April 25 in Naples, a city of gold medal for military valor for the fight against Nazifascism, to ask forcefully that the South be given what is due to the South, hoping that this anniversary is also the feast of liberation from the divisions of the Country, with one part of Italy advancing and with another that goes back, and hoping that the citizens of the South are fully considered Italian citizens, with the same rights and the same duties that make us feel the children of a single nation, Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u33	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the analysis of the DEF shows the need and urgency to put policies in place to revive the country, considering not only buffer measures, but structural measures. The macroeconomic scenario of the Italian economy remains subject to several factors of uncertainty and the resources of the various deviations and of the Next generation EU must be used to put the country in a position to recover and innovate, not to run the risk of remaining behind other countries, European and non. So the challenge facing us is to get the country back together as soon as possible. An important and strong impact for a return to normality will certainly be given by the need for the vaccination campaign to take place without too many problems, arriving as soon as possible at immunity of flock. The various representatives of the categories, which we have audited, have all highlighted the seriousness of the situation and the fact that the resources allocated by the various decrees-restoration and support are insufficient. We are at the seventh budgetary deviation: this means that there is a continuing need for liquidity for companies. Added to this is the need to further improve public administration payment times, ensuring the payment of the public debt stock. It is not enough liquidity, if it is not accompanied by urgent and necessary reforms, first and foremost those of public administration, justice and tax, otherwise the resources allocated to investments risk not having the desired effects. To further exacerbate the criticalities, the difficulty of finding raw materials and the increase in the costs of raw materials have been added. Paradoxically, some sectors are faced with orders that cannot be paid for this further phenomenon. One of the driving and most affected sectors during this pandemic is certainly tourism, which, as we know, weighs 13% of GDP. Confturismo-Confcommercio has done the last update of the picture of the damages: from the first March to the end of May it is estimated that in the receptive structures there will be a decrease of beyond 31,6 million presences, with an estimated loss of 7.4 billion euros. For the year 2020, Italy had 219 million fewer visitors, with very serious consequences for employment. Many businesses have closed and will not reopen and many are selling out their activities, fruit of the work of a lifetime. The greatest risk is that from abroad you come to buy our historic brands and our companies. In April 2021, the percentage of companies strongly at risk of usury, which have been pressured to sell their companies, is 12 percent and are at risk of usury 36,000 small companies of the commerce, housing and public stores. This emerges from a recent analysis of Confcommercio. This is why it is necessary to strongly support the sector, providing adequate, inclusive and timely refreshments with the next decree, providing for credit and tax moratories and measures for commercial leases. Urgent action is needed to provide more liquidity for this system. To make businesses strong and strong, with future prospects, allows to recall those who temporarily do not have a job, have finished the unemployment allowance or are in cash. The further increase in jobs lost is one million, the incidence of poverty increases, both in terms of households and in terms of individuals, rising to 5.6 million. Here too, the analysis of the difficulty, which concerns the various family structures, diversifys between more or less numerous families. It is clear that economic uncertainty also has a negative impact on the birth policies that are being implemented. In conclusion, surely the pandemic has caught our nation unprepared and has highlighted the structural deficiencies caused by past political choices and the criticalities, which are more evident if we compare with the other countries of the European Union. This further deviation in the balance sheet must be accompanied by the reopening of activities and a return to normality, which we hope will happen as soon as possible as possible. Summer is at the door and there is an urgent need for certain planning, with guidelines and protocols, but above all coordination, so that tourism can start again avoiding preferential lanes in foreign locations. The sector is at great risk, with repercussions on the entire chain, and consequently on the state and public administrations, with relative difficulties then to bear the costs of the services to be provided to the citizens. It is clear that vaccinations and reopenings are the key ingredients to regain our future [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u35	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the DEF's policy data tell us that at the end of the programming period the unemployment rate will fall, but to reach 8% in 2024; employment, which has fallen by 10.3% in 2020, will increase with rates that are comparable to those of the estimated rebound of GDP, but will always stand at 4-5 per cent each year and will not be able to recover the number of employees before the crisis even at the end of the programming period. These are, in numerical terms, 2 million people who will remain out of work in 2024. Confindustria has evidenced how Italy records a lower level than the European average in spending on active policies, while it sees a higher expense in passive policies. Our labour policies must therefore be influenced by greater employability of workers. The latest Istat data shows us how the dynamics of work have changed in this period of pandemic. The world of work will no longer be the world that preceded the pandemic, but it will have to be adapted to a different and innovative concept of productivity; we can not only look at what happens in Italy, but also at what happens in other countries and this obliges us to fill the skill gap that has been generated by creating a frightening increase of the unemployed, but also of the inactive and those who do not seek work. These numbers have put us in front of the need to look at work and above all at human capital with prospective eyes. People, not only investments and companies, will have to be the protagonists of both the ecological transition and the digital one, and to make them participate in these two major transitions it is necessary to form them, so it is necessary to prepare them for those new professionalisms that require the activities that will be generated both from the capitals coming from Europe and of the economic programming of this Document of economy and finance. That is why we believe that investment must have as its primary objective human capital, that is, lifelong learning to expand the skills and education of businesses and workers. In what has been called good debt there must be that committed to train our young people more punctually, but also to retrain with new skills those who are already in the world of work and who want and can participate in this great and extraordinary phase of transition. Since the beginning of the pandemic, resources have been committed, and partly spent, between active and passive policies, equal to the economic content of the PNRR, as colleagues who have spoken today have already pointed out; now we need to commit the resources available wisely. An indispensable theme to emerge from the crisis, and which I am sure will become increasingly important, is the enhancement of human capital on a large scale, engaging resources in training. To benefit from the increase in the value of human capital, at all levels, are the same companies that, as shown by a recent study by McKinsey, when considered by the most dynamic investors, see the same value of their capitalization grow. To conclude this brief intervention, I believe that the absolute commitment of the Government and Parliament must be directed to active labour policies, aimed at the valorization of human capital as an indispensable resource of the future of our country and our companies. Only in this way, I believe, can the deficit that has been created by the pandemic be bridged. To look to the future with sure more confident eyes there is a need for really incisive interventions on training. Mr President, I believe that this speech needs time; it has not been granted to me, but I will return to the concept of human capital as an unavoidable aspect for the training and growth of our companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u37	Mr President, the DEF text approved by the Council of Ministers on 15 April confirms the launch of a plan for the profound revision of the Italian tax system. As regards tax reform, it will start from the second half of 2021 and will be one of the measures related to the implementation of the recovery plan. The Italian tax system is still too complex and unfair for taxpayers. For this reason its organic reform is necessary with the contribution and commitment of all political forces. The DEF does not enter into the details of what will be the tax reform to come, also because the Government will wait for the final document of the cognitive survey on the reform of the Irpef and the precious patrimony of hearings that the Joint Finance Commissions of the Senate and the House have collected in the last months within the same investigation. The survey on the Irpef reform revealed some points of interest, on which the political forces will have to confront themselves, including the role to give to the personal tax, redistributive or pro-growth or both at the same time; the choice of the model of all-inclusive tax, then bring all forms of income production back to the progressive system or improve the current dual system, perhaps simplifying it and reducing the number of replacement rates that are objectively numerous. Moreover, the choice of the tax unit, thus maintaining the current system of individual taxation or identifying, for example, the household as a taxable person. It is necessary to establish and stabilize the new rules on personal tax and tax in general, but that is not enough. We are witnessing an epochal change determined by the use of technology and how it has changed our way of life. This revolution is also taking place without changing the rules. Tax reform must therefore be taken into account, that is, the fact that the epochal change that we are experiencing has not been determined because of a reversal of the rules, but because of the birth of new technological tools that have made us decline those old rules in a completely new, different way (some use the term "spectacular"). That is the reasoning that we should turn into fiscal reform. Rules are necessary, but they are not the most important element; and an excess of rules - we have experienced it - can fuel further complexity and paradoxically can fuel precisely those distortions that would be countered: tax avoidance, evasion and corruption. The rules, therefore, must be simple and functional to the virtuous use of technology. Technology must be made easy to use and be easy to use, just like the most common applications we use in everyday life and, important in tax, technology must not be used against citizens and taxpayers, with a punitive logic that we have seen has never worked, but must be used for citizens, to simplify our role as taxpayers, to see our taxes calculated in a simple and immediately measurable way. This is also to finally give the exact and tangible measure of the tax pressure, in order to be able to monitor our tax situation in real time, simply by looking at the cell phone we hold in our hands. I repeat, our way of life in recent years has changed because the tools, the apps, have changed, not because the rules have changed. The opinion to the DEF expressed by the Senate Finance Commission, among the comments, highlighted the need to implement a digital infrastructure that guarantees the certification of tax credits and their wide circulation between operators as means of payment of goods and services, also in the light of the introduction of the superbonus 110% and other transferable tax credits, including those accrued by companies for investments in the Mezzogiorno, in special economic zones and in capital goods. Yesterday Istat certified a very important fact: the production in the construction sector exceeded in February the pre-Covid period, the superbonus and bonuses in construction and above all the possibility of surrendering the tax credits deriving from these bonuses, despite the continuing of the closures and the pandemic, despite the technical complexity from the measures that we still have to overcome, they are producing their concrete effects, they have loaded an entire economic sector on their shoulders and they are bringing it out of the crisis. [[Applause]] The citizens intend to take care of the most precious good they have, their home, and they want to do so by declining the true ecological transition, that is, they want to make their home completely independent from the energy point of view and to feed their energy needs with sunlight. The study of the Luiss Business School and OpenEconomics, a study relaunched on March 10 by the Economic Policy Department of Palazzo Chigi, revealed that the superbonus would have a positive effect on public finances in the long run, considering the additional revenue of VAT and Ires obtained by the effect of the investments induced by the superbonus, therefore positive effects on economic growth with positive return also for the state coffers. Moreover, already in December 2019 the Chamber's study office, in collaboration with Cresme, had revealed how the incentives for the recovery and energy redevelopment of the building heritage in the twenty years 1998-2019, considering all the revenue generated by the stimulus to the economy in terms of VAT, Irpef, IRAP and social security contributions, have produced a positive balance of just less than 8.7 billion euros. I ask, therefore, if there is any need for further evidence; the timidities and hesitations that are informed, coming from some ministerial structure appear completely incomprehensible: the superbonus must not be brutally and banally degraded at mere unproductive expense, we must realize that by combining the transfer of tax credits with energy efficiency, with the most precious asset we have, our home, and with the construction sector, we have taken the right path to follow, we just have to give it a system, make it even safer, but that is the road that will take us out of the economic crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u38	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u39	Mr President, I begin by pointing out what Senator Calandrini has already pointed out in his minority report to this measure: the document of economics and finance comes essentially short, that is, without those annexes which are the first things that we who make mayors and administrators look at when a regional resolution comes, for example with contributions. I repeat, the first thing we look at is how much the contributions amount and so let's shine the attachments. Well, we do not find them here, there is no annex, the possibility has been lost even to attach to this Document the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, as we have been asking for months now. We have done this in every way, our leader has done it, we have done it in the Commission, the Group Leaders have done it in the House and in the Senate, believing that it was essential to be able to discuss this issue before 30 April, the final date by which our President of the Council will then have to hand it over to Europe, given the rejection of what we discussed in the Commissions with a platonic exercise. I am referring to the plan prepared by the Count 1 Government, which Europe has already rejected with a smile, telling us to return to September, as when a pupil is poorly prepared but tries the same. It is dramatic, because at this moment we would have liked to be able to discuss the topic, instead this PNRR remained in the drawers of Città della Pieve and probably will arrive the last useful day, so that this annoying opposition that exposes all the criticalities of this vast majority cannot express itself on the merit or even the method. This is the first complaint we make from these cracks because - as we said on the day of the establishment of the Dragons Government - we will be much more loyal than most of your majority and we are aware of it these days. We have always said the same thing; we have never changed our mind and Italians begin to recognize this consistency, which is not instrumental in increasing our percentage. It is simply the method that we have given ourselves without asking anything in return to be useful to this nation and continue on that furrow, convinced, as we are, that it pays. I understand, however, that sometimes parliamentary work is interpreted as a pain in the ass and I understand that, when the majority is so large, the minority is treated as something that, if it were not there, would be better, in spite of any kind of democracy in the world. I remember that there is no democracy where there is no opposition, even if that would appear to be the case here. Appeals to national unity must absolutely be accepted, otherwise those who do not accept them, according to your standards, become an alien, someone who has nothing to do with democracy. Instead, democracy lies in these very benches. These are the benches that represent democracy, because they represent the government and this is the way you have to be controlled, to avoid what happened today. If we were not to stigmatize the disrespectful behaviour towards Parliament, there would be no one today to say that. We're the ones guarding that camp. [[Applause]] We do this because the DEF takes an embarrassing picture of the economic situation and does not propose any solution. There is no annex and, therefore, it is also difficult to propose a solution, which is left, as Mr Calandrini rightly said, to a declaration of intent. It's not like that. In fact, in order to overcome the crisis - you know very well - we need resources, but also the ability to dispose of them. I remind everyone that we have already voted for a recovery fund because with the vote on today's deviation there are 200 billion that this Government has had available to change the fate of this nation. Ask companies, however, if they have realized that. Ask the normal citizens, who force you to stay home after 22 hours without any scientific evidence, if the 200 billion you have had has been translated into concrete things. That's not true. Second, in fact, a study by the CGIA in Mestre - you didn't even need to bring the DEF to understand it - only 4.5% of the turnover of the companies were refreshed with your operations and with the 200 billion that you asked future generations. So much for sustainability! Opening a brief on sustainability and remembering that today is the world day of the earth, that sees the right always defend those values, I remember that the report on the Kyoto Protocol is missing. So, on the one hand, you are front environmentalists, as according to the classic greenwashing, and, on the other, you are absolutely distracted when acts like the Kyoto Protocol should be discussed today. I repeat: it is an attitude that we now recognize and that we realize to be so. Having said this, again this time, with absolute and maximum responsibility, which has always moved us, we will perhaps vote for the deviation, we will make available additional resources, convinced and hoping that the many proposals that Brothers of Italy made for once will be accepted. We do not do this to claim our victory or because we have to plant our own flag, but because we believe that our proposals are useful to this nation. We make proposals, never asking for anything in return. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u41	Mr President, Government and fellow Senators, on 15 April the Council of Ministers approved the new Economic and Financial Document which provides for a further budgetary deviation of another 40 billion. Already on previous occasions, as a parliamentary group, we have expressed our political line with clarity and consistency. In order to defeat the pandemic today and face this serious economic crisis, it is certainly necessary to do debt, but as long as - as we have said several times - it is a good debt and most of it is addressed to investments and, above all, to concrete support for families and businesses, which at this moment are not guilty of the situation they are facing. For this reason, in the past months, even from the opposition's benches, we have supported with great responsibility the budgetary deviations; and we have also done so in certain situations where our votes have been determined. It is important to remember that, precisely because today the line of coherence that the parliamentary group has always maintained is manifested. In the fight against the virus we are today at a turning point, we can say, because at international and national level the vaccination campaign has started with great force, so much so that all the magazines and all the scientists say that surely in autumn we will have achieved immunity; at that point there will be economic recovery and there will be reopenings in total safety. The consequent link between vaccination and economic recovery is the focus of any action aimed at restoring serenity and is important precisely for the possibility of reopening. After the collapse of last year's gross domestic product, estimates indicate that planned growth will reach 4.5% in 2021 and 4.8% in 2022. The new budget deviation of EUR 40 billion will cover an additional measure of EUR 35 billion in support of businesses and households, while a further EUR 5 billion will go to a fund that will be used to start with the first projects foreseen in the recovery plan, those not covered by the same plan. The DEF forecasts are very conservative compared to the documents of the past and are therefore absolutely truthful. I would like to make a few comments on the debt, because it is clear that, at the moment, a further budgetary deviation is debt. However, as we heard directly from his voice, the head of the department of the economy of the Bank of Italy told us clearly at the hearing that the public debt of our country is absolutely sustainable. It is therefore essential to stimulate the growth of public investment, with interventions that operate the necessary strengthening of our country's infrastructure. It is precisely in the direction that we have been supporting for a long time: debt yes, but debt good and aimed at investments that have an expansionary and multiplier effect on the economy. The line that is drawn and that has been drawn in these months also goes in our direction. The prospects for recovery and short-term growth are strongly conditioned by the success of the vaccination campaign and the launch of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The key aspect today is the acceleration of vaccines. The regions now have a very delicate and important role to play, because they have road maps with regard to the vaccination plan. It is also necessary to push on the part of the Regions, so much so that the Commissioner for emergency Covid, General Son, has reiterated this and has invited the Regions to give a strong acceleration to the vaccination plan, in order to reach the 500,000 doses of vaccines per day, in compliance with the plan. The change of pace is necessary and providential in this case, because there is a strong acceleration. What we have always asked for and the very purpose of the Government is today the change of pace on some fundamental aspects, for example on the vaccination plan, which can allow us to make a breakthrough also with regard to the reopening of our country and its economic activities, allowing the revival of the economy. In the meantime, however, we must continue along the lines of support for business and the economy, with the measures that are on the way. We have the decree-law supports one to the Senate, to which will be added in the coming weeks the decree-law supports two. In this month there will be a contribution of economic support to the country of an additional 70 billion euros, that will be important and vital not only for the support to the economy, but also for the revival that at this moment serves our Country. What else would it take? We, in this year of closure, of pandemics, of economic crisis, have found a great saving of Italian families. So, there is an important mass of money given by savings. Why did the Italians at the moment go on the way to saving money? Precisely because of economic uncertainty. Today we must begin to retrace a path, which is that of trust. Only through trust can we recover today, using that saving of families in consumption, which is an important fact, because, through a strong action on consumption, we can resume the country and, therefore, take the path of economic recovery. Therefore, it is important to begin, not only with campaigns, but above all with actions that give confidence to our country. At this moment, that confidence and the savings of Italians we can put our country back online. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day. Today is earth day. You will say: we are talking about economy and the DEF. What's that got to do with anything? I say to you that it has a great deal to do, because protecting biodiversity, which is increasingly at risk, and combating climate change are among the most important challenges, which, if won, do nothing but safeguard the health of our citizens. Europe has reached an agreement these days, before the climate summit wanted by Biden, on the lowering of the greenhouse effect. I remember that the pandemic also has to do with climate problems and environmental impact, as there are studies that link the pandemic closely with the degree of pollution. If we succeed in overcoming this challenge, we will be able to have even more health. So, it's a very important issue. Even the DEF, which foresees a programming of the economic and budgetary policy of our country cannot be detached from the health issues. In fact, in the construction and the hinges placed in support of the DEF, much rests on the issue of health, such as the vaccination campaign, which we are all talking about and which, fortunately, is benefiting thanks to the arrival of additional doses. The vaccination campaign, in fact, is one of the themes on which the DEF also focuses. Indeed, the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget has put the progress of the vaccination campaign among the risks of short and long-term economic forecasts. A key aspect for economic recovery is also linked to reopenings. You all know the debate these days. I, however, would like to make a further appeal. I had begun my speech with Europe and returned to talk about Europe, because it must also deal with those countries which do not have the opportunity to access vaccines. I still remember, in fact, that the vaccine is global and that no one saves himself. It is another important issue that we must take care of at European level. In the PNR, among other important documents mentioned in the DEF, there is obviously the issue of health, as its fundamental mission. We pay attention, here too, to an important paradigm change, where the center is not the hospital but the health care of the territory. This is another strategic theme for our country and, if we do not apply it, we will really come back. We don't want to go back to pre-Covid-19. We need to learn not to be shortsighted compared to what happened. Then we will see how all the funds contained in the PNRR can be used. There are the themes of the realization of the homes of the community, the integrated home care, the development of intermediate care through hospitals of the community, interventions related to the health profiles connected with the problems of the environment and the climate, the technological and digital modernization: we have heard a lot about telemedicine. Moreover, advanced technological care and then also health research, as well as technology transfer and training related to this research. They are all themes centered in Mission 6, with funds made available. I remember that, in the document of economy and finance, precisely to make these changes become structural, there are also important laws connected to it. One of these is the implementation of the Health Pact 2019-2021 for the enhancement of territorial assistance. Among the other draft laws, we draw our attention to the implementation of regional differentiated autonomy, which during this period, with all the diversity of application of the national health system in the regional health system has unfortunately led to inequalities. And that's not good. I am now going back to what Senator Zanda said earlier, who has made a very important speech, addressing the issue of Parliament's willingness and what it must do. In the Committee on Health and Health we have taken important steps, which I quote to remind you of the work we are doing. Those relating to the psychologist of primary care (you know the attention we must pay to the psychological support of our citizens), the nurse of family and community and the revision of the territorial system of emergency and urgency are all issues that we will address, since Parliament owes and wants to do its part. Finally, Mr President, there is a very important issue. The PNRR is an unrepeatable opportunity and for this reason we cannot afford to waste even one euro. We must identify the precise responsibilities of those who will have the task of implementing the projects, by tracing them and without falling into the indeterminateness and generalization of the responsibilities, as unfortunately always happens. On this too, Europe expects from us, as a country, a step of maturity, since we are accustomed not to monitor the results and evaluate the impacts. This is perhaps the most important challenge, which we will not be able to subtract because the future of generations, as next generation EU remembers, is waiting for us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u43	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u44	Mr President, representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the Draghi Government stems from the need to give discontinuity to the previous Conte- bis Government, which had clearly proved unable not only to govern, but even more to manage the coronavirus emergency. It is a discontinuity that President Draghi, together with his ministers, has readily demonstrated with the facts and in the acts, beginning with the replacement of the Commissioner for the emergency Arcuri and perfecting the appointment of General Son, whose results are being seen in a visible way, day after day. The discontinuity was also seen when it changed the summit of Civil Protection and when, in a transparent way, it decided to entrust to the prefect Gabrielli the secret services, contrary to what Conte had done, who wanted to keep them almost jealously for himself. It marked the discontinuity with a reform of the CTS, making it leaner and modifying it in its components, even in the apical ones. The discontinuity, as also said by Minister Garavaglia, has manifested itself also with the expense of well 500 million euros, that they were kept in a drawer, while the enterprises of the field were in suffering. The discontinuity has also been marked in the relationship with Europe, since many - perhaps we too - did not expect Italy to block the vaccines AstraZeneca produced in the country and destined for Australia, as well as when President Draghi said in a serene but authoritative way, that if the European coordination for the supply of vaccines does not work we do alone, because first of all the health and interests of Italians come. The discontinuity was also when 58 public works were unlocked for 66 billion euros, with the appointment of the corresponding commissioners. Speaking of public works, it is a few hours ago the news that preliminary investigations have been closed on the sad story of the Morandi bridge and - we hope - will go to trial as many as 71 investigated. We hope that those responsible will be brought to justice immediately and with certainty. [[Applause]] There was also a lack of continuity in relation to reopenings. It is right to remember here that, if we talked about the yellow zone from April 26, it is because the League and Matteo Salvini insisted in these days and in these weeks towards this direction; otherwise we would not have had even the yellow zone from April 26. With regard to reopenings, it must be said candidly that for activities the real support, the desired support, is their restart. We must ensure that, in relation to ideologies, responsibility, concreteness and the will and direction of the real Italy that lies on the territory prevail. What the League is doing today is bringing within the Government the will of the mayors, of the governors - right, left, center - who push to open as much as possible and as soon as possible. [[Applause]] This deviation is also discontinuity, because a few weeks ago we were still talking about 20 billion. Matteo Salvini had said that they were insufficient, that he would want at least double and we have 40 billion deviation for companies, for VAT consignments. Now we wait until the end of the month to be approved the decree support- bis, in order to give immediately real resources to the activities that need it: a support that will not only be on the decrease of the turnover, but also - this is our request - on the loss of the profit. Let us not forget that, on the other hand of the EUR 40 billion, there are for 2021 another 30 for public works, to put in place a plan parallel to the PNRR, with a forecast up to 2023 of 70 billion euros. It's true, President Draghi has launched the challenge and we pick it up. This deviation means the bet of the good debt, the one that serves to make the country grow and that must not only be seen in the remarkable and important figure that characterizes it - precisely 40 billion euros - but, above all, for the after. If, in fact, we will be able to spend this money well and accompany these resources with important reforms in our country, starting from the zeroing of the code of contracts, we will be able to return to this debt immediately, well and without the need to implement a corrective maneuver. It was said that this is the time to give the money to the Italians and not to take the money from the Italians. It is also time to free resources and not to bind them. In this regard, in order to clarify in this House, even in the light of yesterday's debate, the Conte Government no longer exists: it no longer exists, it has gone home because it is unable to handle this bloody and ugly pandemic from every point of view, economic, health and social. Let us also clarify another aspect. If the PNRR money arrives, it is not because of Count, who has no merit, but simply because the current Government, led by Draghi, is working hard to recover the delays and disasters that the Conte Government has also done in this area. [[Applause]] Finally, why is the League in government? Our leader has always said it clearly and candidly: we could stand outside waiting for the ship to sink, instead we decided to be there for the good of Italy, for the interest of the Italians. We want to do this, not for the sake of governing or including among us some more Minister or Secretary, but to determine a reversal of trend, to save our country. We want to do this with responsibility, concreteness and realism. No, therefore, to ideology, to that ideology that always shows red; we want to do it with courage, because we do not want to liven up, but we want to decide. We want to do this - and this is about politics and not about bureaucrats, nor about technicians - with a vision that looks to tomorrow's Italy, to that country whose belonging gives us strength and pride to believe it to the full. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u45	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this year the Economic and Financial Document, for the pandemic crisis that has seriously affected the social and economic life of the whole country, is part of a particular framework. In fact, alongside the approval of the Document, we will authorize an additional margin of deviation of 40 billion euros, which will merge into a decree-emergency law, of next issue, the decree support- bis, which will have an impact in terms of net debt in 2021, while the impact on the deficit of the following years will vary between 4 and 6.5 billion per year, aimed above all to finance public investments with additional resources to those foreseen by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The PNRR contains a specific section on reforms, in line with EU Regulation 2021/241, which thus complements the national reform programme, previously included in the DEF, which now consists of only two sections: the stability programme and the analysis and trends in public finance. It is clear that we are discussing a document, not a legal text. In fact, the content of the Economic and Financial Document follows a precise process, not finding a concrete and immediate application, but it is of fundamental importance, because it represents the starting point of all the financial and economic measures identified by the Government and proposals to Europe. Reading the document, it is easy to identify the direction towards support for families and businesses and the revival, to be guaranteed through public and private investments. This document indicates the economic and financial path that Italy must undertake, outlines its long-term objectives and strategies, for an expansionary monetary policy, to be achieved by increasing the potential for development and relaunching public investment and, at the same time, by encouraging private ones in the fields of research, innovation, digitisation and above all infrastructure, material and intangible. Much of the resources of the deviation, in fact, are destined to unlock works on the infrastructures, for a total value of 66 billion euros, but not enough, in the absence of valid projects. There is no doubt that it is necessary to simplify the legislation on public works, with a work that is parliamentary before that of the Government, avoiding - as is unfortunately happening - the appointment of too many technical and theoretical commissions, very often removed from the practical reality, from the territories and from the same enterprises, whose needs, now more than ever, must be kept in due consideration in order to allow real support, that is not pure assistance, but allows the protection of quality work and the maintenance of employment levels. The Government, announcing draft laws on sustainable transport and mobility, linked to the budgetary decision, expresses the clear will to support investments in this strategic sector for our economy, with plans that will allow the strengthening of recruitment in the sector, and confirms the will to implement the simplification of procedures and improve the governance of the infrastructure relaunch plan. Relaunching investment in public works and unlocking important resources is a strong signal of desire for recovery, which cannot be ignored. It is true that the pandemic crisis has upset the world economic and social framework, but it cannot be denied that Italy has handled the shock caused by this upheaval thanks to the sacrifices of all Italians, whom I thank on behalf of Italia Viva. In particular, I thank the entrepreneurs, the self-employed, VAT matches and the professionals who have struggled, much more than others, to respect legitimate and necessary rules and decisions, dictated by the protection of health, but penalized much more than those who, thanks to the existing care measures, have continued to survive, in a certainly difficult condition, but stable overall, because basically equal to the one before the pandemic. It is urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to implement reforms for an efficient fiscal policy, capable of calibrating interventions to compensate for such different difficulties and, at the same time, reassuring families, reducing the desire to save money in order to counter uncertainties. We cannot fail to recognise the significant support provided by European monetary policy for interventions that have stabilized the markets, avoiding a tightening of financial conditions; this monetary policy has been strengthened together with the budgetary policy, which has acted in defence of private sector incomes, allowing banks to support the real economy. The common response from the European authorities and the opportunities offered by the expansive economic policies in place are a value to be taken into account and not to be frustrated, but rather to provide continuity and certainty to the economic system. We must now increase productive investment, by relaunching the European economy by this route, to give stability to the Italian economy and to public finance, through a serious boost to development and growth. Only then can we emerge from the crisis with a stronger economy and a more sustainable debt burden. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u47	Mr President, a few weeks ago, on the occasion of the adoption of the resolution on the PNRR, I, along with many colleagues, pointed out that with the next deviation we would overcome the psychological barrier of 200 billion; today it arrived that day. I would like to remind you that it is 400,000 billion old lire, so it certainly sounds louder. Then we clear the field: were those deviations necessary? Absolutely. Have they been used to the best possible extent? Absolutely not. As a League, we have not escaped from the opposition before and we are certainly not doing so today, convinced that there is no bad, negative or bad debt in itself, but that it depends on how the resources are used. This is the contribution that we would like to make responsibly, because being responsible also means loyally saying how you think it in the interest of the country. I would like to remind you what the resources of the deviation should be for: on the one hand, to support companies and families and, on the other, to help the country to restart. From this point of view, there are two aspects: the first concerns the use of resources and the other is linked to the times and rules of restart. It is clear that, for each sector we choose to restart, we also make a choice: we can save resources to be used for those sectors that, for their characteristics, require more time and more attention. So when we call attention as a League and as Matteo Salvini did yesterday, we do it because there is a direct consequence and a causal link between the choices on reopenings and the use of current resources and those that may still be necessary. What President Draghi said about the need for a calculated risk was recalled earlier. We want that calculated risk, which we are all together deciding to face, not to be frustrated by the irrationality, rigidity and illogicality of the choices that are made in relation to schedules, days and dates, because it would really be very serious. A short while ago my colleague Misiani, to whom intellectual honesty must be recognized, basically said two things: the first is that the decree-law supports was born in fact before the third wave and before the current situation, so it will be these 40 billion, those of the second decree-law supports, the first that we will think and we will have to use in a different logic. That call he sent to this most important piece is also extended to the other part of the majority: let us be consistent and give clear examples. I am thinking of two areas: marriage and parks. We are beginning to approve rules for the restart which, for example, allow those who sell ceremonial clothes to sell clothes, but not for ceremonies; who allow hairdressers and make-up to work, but not if customers are married; who allow to rent cars, but not if they are used in a given ceremony; who allow musicians to play and artists to perform, at a proper distance, provided not in a ceremony; who allow large villas and large restaurants, those who have adequate spaces, to perform activities, provided that they do not do so for certain types of event. It is not that by changing the reason why there are 100 or 200 people, at a proper distance and taking into account households, there is more or less risk in the spread of the virus. This means being illogical: I could take the example of the curfew dispute at 10:00 or 11:00, but it would be too easy. In the same way, we live in a country that talks about restarting fairs, theatres and cinemas, but it is only the cinema indoors, at a proper distance, in a cinema, which was right to restart, both different from the cinema in 4D, which constitutes the attraction in an amusement park. With the same rules and the same cares, safely, with a calculated risk, we must give a message, because if we do not give the opportunity to have certain times and clear rules, we condemn sectors that perhaps, for individual activities, could already work. Just don't say it, don't clarify it and don't let us find the answers in the Frequently Asked Question (FAQ) of the Ministry means condemning companies and ensuring that that future, which we would like to protect for us and our children and which we would like to build with a restart, will have no one physically to live it, neither in terms of companies, which will close well before, not having sufficient resources to stand for other months and other years, nor in terms of citizens, because let me say that also from this passes the reversal of the tendency to the decrease of births, which is hitting our country in a very heavy way. Therefore, of Italians who will live the future that we want to build here, all together, probably there will be less, and, alas, one day maybe there will be none. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u48	Senator Presutto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to express our views on the DEF 2021, in a very difficult health and economic context. The economic and financial document is the main programming document for economic and budgetary policy, which outlines, from a medium to long-term perspective, commitments on the consolidation of public finances and guidelines on the various public policies. It should be stressed that the European Commission has established a clause to better coordinate budgetary policies aimed at ensuring greater room for manoeuvre for Member States, to pay health costs necessary to deal with the epidemic emergency and measures to counter the recessionary effects on European economies caused by the spread of Covid-19. It is becoming increasingly clear in the future that the absurd financial scaffolding behind the Stability Pact and the fiscal compact will no longer be possible, as we have known them so far. DEF 2021 is without the National Reform Programme (NRP), as at this delicate stage the National Recovery and Resilience Plan complements the reform programme provided for in European regulations and national rules. Today we are also called to vote on the budgetary deviation and therefore on debt for an additional EUR 40 billion in 2021. The Government also requires the authorization, for 6 billion euros per year, for the period from 2022 to 2033, aimed at financing expenses for public investments extra PNRR. The new EUR 40 billion deviation will be used for a new measure to support the economy and businesses. In particular, economic support will be directed towards the livelihood of self-employed workers and businesses most affected by the restrictions adopted to contain contagion. We must be strongly aware of the risk that our country has taken and, at the same time, of the quantity and quality of the effort made, starting from the Government Count II, the Executive that has laid the foundations and the schemes for all today's interventions. Through the reading of the DEF we can only realize the quality and quantity of the effort put in place by the second Conte Government and finally by the current Executive. From the decree-law care Italy of March 2020 to the imminent decree support bis have been recovered fresh resources for more than 200 billion euros, through the budgetary deviations from time to time voted by the Parliament. Moreover, from the DEF itself, we note that the Italian PNRR from now to 2026 will put in place 237 billion euros, including the actual PNRR, of the additional funds to finance investments extra PNRR and the React-EU funds. The combined provision of internal and European resources thus brings the final account of those found to protect citizens, families and businesses and to revive the country with green and digital investments around 450 billion euros. We are aware that the PNRR is one of the fundamental tools to plan investments and interventions necessary to the country, to respond to the economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic by Covid-19; however, it is necessary to remember at the same time the importance and urgency of completing or triggering reforms such as that of the public administration, tax, justice and the labour market, which are not complementary, but a fundamental support to ensure the success of the PNRR. [[Applause]] To start again, Italy needs a more modern and functional public administration (I would go beyond the term "simplification"), able to interact constantly with citizens at all levels, both national and local, and to fully grasp and enhance the concept of functional expenditure. Let us go beyond the old and old concept of cutting linear spending, with the aim of spending solely to create value for citizens and to do so in a sustainable way, both financially and environmentally. We think of a tax reform that can restore a good relationship between the state and citizens, creating a healthy and collaborative understanding between the parties, able to reduce the phenomenon of tax evasion, facilitating electronic payments and reducing the costs of cashless transactions. The 5 Star Movement, already in the report of the Commissions reunited 5th and 14th on the PNRR, managed to introduce a very innovative proposal, with the endorsement of the other political forces, to put a large mass of financial resources in the economy. I am referring to the implementation of a computer platform to certify and circulate the countless tax credits entered into the economic system from the superbonus and other building bonuses. These are tax credits, which we must be able to use as means of payment for goods and services, which are included in genuine current tax accounts. The same proposal had already been transposed into another parliamentary act, namely the final document of the survey on the superbonus carried out by the Supervisory Committee on the tax registry. We will insist on this point all the time, because the free movement of tax credits, fixed from the superbonus, is a huge opportunity to make tax credits immediately usable and to put huge resources in the hands of citizens and businesses. [[Applause]] To speak of fiscal currency in this regard one can and must, even more so after the choice of the Government Count II and the Government Dragons to focus on the circulation and transfer of tax credits. In conclusion, the Movimento 5 Stars is aware of the commitment and responsibility required to implement the policy lines set out in the DEF. We know the difficulties, the uncertainties of the moment and the requests for help that come every day from our citizens, but we know above all the opportunities. [[Applause]] We will therefore ensure maximum commitment, working with all the political forces present in Parliament, to achieve the objectives and provide concrete answers in the exclusive interest of the country and its citizens, sure that we will succeed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u50	Colleagues, because we have only a few minutes left before we agreed to suspend the work of this House, so that we do not interrupt the next speech, and I suspend our work until 1.30 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.25 p.m. and resumed at 13.34 p.m.) Let's get back to work. She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u51	Mr President, I shall take up some of the points already raised by my previous colleagues. Indeed, in this session we are facing the most important document of our country's economic policy, the DEF, and the deviation of 40 billion, so over 200 billion, which will be debt, can be poured completely into our economy, which was already firm even before the pandemic crisis and had huge problems of stagnation and inefficiency. Everyday life was choking against the whole Bourbon system - let me define it this way - of rules, quirks and laces, which have prevented over the years a balanced and continuous development towards progress, as well as other European countries. The pandemic has been and continues to be a tragedy. The death toll, unfortunately, is unforgettable and is tragic also for all the consequences left in the people who have lived the experience of covid and in their family. We are all shaken by this frightening wave, but also by all the psychological, depressive and anxiety effects that have resulted. We will have to deal with this, especially for young people and children who could not go to school during lockdown, but also for the elderly, who, afraid, had to stay in their homes. Above all, we will have to give answers to all the economic categories to which we have not yet given the right answers and which have had to remain completely firm. We're gonna have to and we're gonna get answers. We will have to do this in an intelligent way and with a very precise timing. This morning the draft of the recovery plan, which talks about the division of tasks, came out. The MEF will monitor and the Ministries and local authorities will implement the necessary investments and reforms. Governance will be directly responsible to operational structures in order to achieve as quickly as possible. The three words that can be used as slogans will be monitoring, reporting and transparency. Let us try to understand how it will be possible for this to happen if, as I said before - it is also planned and we have read it in the report of the Parliamentary Budget Office - the rebound planned for 2021 is limited - if discussed yesterday in the Budget Committee - and it will be less than desirable. This is a problem, because everything has to run: the time variable is essential. By 2026 we should have finished many things, but we should have reformed public administration and justice. These issues have been a priority for decades and so we need to find a way to do this. Such reforms will only take place through awareness on the part of all and if, from the highest to the lowest role, everyone understands that they will have to do their part with a sense of responsibility. There can no longer be the cleverness of those who hope to shelter their shoulders, so much the responsibility is of others. We do not do this: we do not relaunch a country completely, as is necessary, either by standing still or by trying to dodge the responsibilities; this cannot exist. I'll give you an example, because then there are no other people who legislate, but it's us and the government. We are saying that we need to simplify and speed up, but there are serious, consolidated and proven amendments which propose, for example, to amend the procurement code (because works must run, do and start again), which have been laid down, forgotten and not approved for years. Who's to do it then? Aren't we the ones who are in charge of making laws and changing things? And we can't? For what reason, ideological or because the structure does not want? This attitude is no longer justifiable: we must bear in mind that we cannot make a mistake, because the debt that we are going to decide today, by approving the budgetary deviation, implies that all of us, but above all the younger generations, will have this burden to carry on and will have to return these resources, so we cannot make a mistake. Yesterday in the Commission I said that ships must be burned, as Alexander the Great did at the siege of Tyre, because there is no alternative. The Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget, in the person of Professor Pisauro, spoke of the optimistic forecasts of the Government; but it can only be so, because we cannot fail. This is clear at all levels: we can't make mistakes here, but they can't make mistakes either in the ministries or in the actuators and local authorities. We can't make a mistake. I'll tell you something that happened to me a few days ago in my town hall. Do you know that the INPS platform, talking about citizenship income, doesn't interact with that of employment centers? Is that possible? We all have to run and work like crazy, because if we need an efficient public administration, we can't do that. I'm telling myself, but I'd say it's a central problem. The reason is that either we do this or we go to hell and honestly I don't want to be the one who dumps responsibility on someone else. Let's all put on good lena. Now I would like to talk to you about the tourism problem and something that has worried me a lot. The American ambassador to Rome said something quite disturbing: he invited his fellow citizens to avoid travel to Italy, because the level of danger and insecurity is high. This means that there is a problem with Covid and one with terrorism. I think we should look into this, because we know very well that our country is the subject of great interest, in their travels, by American friends. It's not possible for this thing to pass under silence. I would like to report what Lamberto Giannini, head of the police, said about the reopenings (it is an ANSA of an hour and a half ago): With respect for the rules and security (...) with a sense of responsibility for the citizens (...), we on the road with understanding (...) towards those who peacefully exercise their democratic prerogatives (...) have suffered very important losses of their individual freedoms. So, the Chief of Police, not Senator Erica Revolt of the League, is saying that there is this great suffering. Because people cannot work, because they see the economic ruin, not only of their personal freedom, but also of their own activities, of their own life, of their own family. So, somehow, with all seriousness, prudence, security measures, you have to make sure to reopen as soon as possible, otherwise these realities will be dead forever. I would like to stress another point. The tourism industry is the first that can start soon, because, as soon as possible the movement between the Regions and with other countries, tourists (except the American ones, unless the ambassador changes his mind) will continue to come to our country, because it is unique and only we can offer the quality of services, the beauty of the places, the importance of monuments. This sector must be fully supported, but with measures of balance between security and restart. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u52	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u53	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, may I begin by expressing my appreciation for your presence. I have to tell the truth: this morning we had nostalgia for an exponent of the Government and the MEF. We have had the pleasure of the Undersecretary's presence in relations with Parliament, but it is important that a competent and authoritative person such as you are here today, especially in respect of the opposition. In this atmosphere of national harmony, which we have contributed to, it is important for everyone to be able to speak to stakeholders, in this case to the MEF. So, thank you, Undersecretary Durigon. Mr Undersecretary, this is a very ambitious DEF and it is also full of optimism. The numbers were told in Joint Commissions by Minister Franco. Investment is expected to increase by 3.2 percent over the next three years. This means bringing the level of investment back to the period prior to the Lehman Brothers financial bubble of 2008-2009. GDP growth is even 4% for 2022, which means that the level of GDP is brought back to the level before the outbreak of this pandemic. We, the Undersecretary, share the spirit of this DEF, welcome some of the ideas, but we cannot avoid expressing some doubts and concerns. The central question is how to achieve the points envisaged, the objectives set out in the DEF, so that they do not become rag paper or a dream white paper. Well, Mr Undersecretary, we want to give you some suggestions today to ensure genuine powerful growth. And powerful growth cannot be achieved without structural reforms, as several colleagues have said before me. If, in fact, we want to ensure a recovery in competitiveness, we must have the courage to put in place the famous reforms that we have been waiting for thirty years. For titles, I'd like to start with bureaucracy. Mrs Rivolta said this very well: digitization and, as Minister Brunetta explained, simplification of procedures. Too many obstacles, too many offices, too many officials who interact overlap in the various procedures. That complicates the situation. A few days ago I was talking to an entrepreneur in the building sector who, for the demolition of a structure abandoned for thirty years to its destiny, took twelve years to complete its administrative procedure. This is one of the necessary reforms. A small step was taken with the so-called simplification decree, also for the assumption of responsibility of local authorities. The mayors no longer sign anything, because they are afraid that the next day, whatever measures they take, they will be blocked by the prosecutor, perhaps with important judicial consequences. The second sector, undersecretary Durigon, is investment. We have to say it clearly: if you had a capital today and wanted to invest in your country, that is in Italy, would you do so? I think that it takes courage and confidence and that the State must give it, especially to foreign funds that want to enter Italy to invest and not only on strategic assets, but also on others. All the reports from the agencies, both public and private, say that we have to intervene on bankruptcy law. If, in fact, a foreign fund wants to invest in different assets, if it skips one of its projects, everyone else jumps in a chain. In America there is Chapter 11, the norm for which there is this draconian Damocles sword of bankruptcy law. The first thing to do is to adopt the bankruptcy law. Secondly, Mr Vice-Minister, as you know, the funds assess, among the various risks and costs, the criminal risks. We saw him on Ilva: one of the 126 prosecutors of the Republic, legitimately and independently, can stand up and say his. You will surely realize that compared to other countries this is not attractive and that foreign funds are afraid to come to Italy not because there is no legal certainty, but because there is no clarity of the rules, which complicate and intersect with each other. The third element concerns the labour market. Some measures have started in recent months: I think of the famous jobs act and the cut, small but important as a sign, of the tax wedge in previous governments. This must be acknowledged with intellectual honesty. We must insist on this and on the renewal and restructuring of employment centres. Does citizenship income have an inclusive social value? Yes. On the other hand (the active labour policy) it is completely lacking, as my previous colleague said just now. Employment centres need to be reformed, because they do not serve any purpose today; navigators do not perform any function. Those of us who had the opportunity to interact with one of them (because maybe we sent someone to meet them) realized that they know nothing: they receive a salary that is also dignified, but, to their regret, they do not perform the function for which they are paid. Madam President, the picture is dramatic, as Mr Franco said. We have world war figures (and the pandemic is a world war): the debt-to-GDP ratio is 160% and Italian GDP is 26% less than the European average. Productivity is 17% lower than the European average (not in France or Germany, but - I repeat - in the European average) and we have the lowest employment rate. These are the numbers we interact with every day. Our hope is that there will be real progress towards reform. We appreciate the words of Minister Franco who told us in the Commission that the Government will do everything necessary to support the economy. We're in the wake of Dragons' whatever it takes. If we want to be English speakers, we could say as long as necessary. We went from whatever it takes to as long as it's necessary. However, it must be said quite frankly that we must have the courage to fight against the power to ban organized interests which, unfortunately, have often acted at the expense of widespread growth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u54	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u55	Mr President, very illustrious representative of the Government, we believe that the DEF is only a statement of intent, because at present there is no national reform plan. Everything has been postponed to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but it is not attached. We know that the President-in-Office of the Council will have to hand him over to Europe in a few days' time, and we are very concerned about that. I recall that in the discussion of the PNRR Fratelli d'Italia had called for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan to be attached to the DEF. If that were the case, we would have something to discuss today. It is clear to everyone that without PNR and PNRR we are talking about virtually nothing. It should also be noted that in addition to the PNR there is no long list of documents which, as provided for in urgent legislation, we should have had. I mention only one because it is the most well known to all, namely the Report on monitoring the spending targets of the Ministries from 2018 to 2020 (the so-called spending review). But let's come to the contents of the DEF. The consequences of the pandemic crisis, in particular the so-called second and third waves of the Covid-19, and all the interventions that have become necessary for containment, are given great importance, as it was clear. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we could discuss for two days, because there would be many things to say: we all knew, in fact, that there would be a rise in the pandemic after last summer, but the Count II Government did absolutely nothing. Brothers of Italy had tabled amendments, he had said several times that it was necessary to intervene promptly, especially where there was scientific evidence of cluster development, such as in the public transport service and in schools. Count II, however, did not do any of this. We regret, however, to point out that - alas - the same Government Dragons went absolutely in continuity also for the so-called third wave. It is true that he has replaced Commissioner Arcuri with General Figillo and we have certainly assessed positively this change, but on everything else he has gone and is going in absolute continuity. In the DEF it is written that the hopes of economic recovery in Italy are all linked to the vaccination plan, I repeat, all linked to the vaccination plan. It is written, however, in a very confusing way, as confused is the vaccination plan. In fact, in the premises it is said that 80% of the Italian population will be vaccinated by September; three lines later it is said instead of autumn, without defining well when, then it is said October. In short, the vaccination plan also in the DEF is absolutely unclear and not transparent. In this regard, we must stress all the time that has been lost on the vaccination plane, and it has cost a great deal, many lives. I remember the time that Commissioner Arcuri lost, who chased the primroses, the gazebos, presenting us graphics in which these wonderful primroses were seen, as if the vaccination plan was an aesthetic issue and not, instead, practical. We have seen, therefore, that the lost time has been so much. On this, too, the Draghi Government has decided to keep the one we believe to be the creator of this great disaster, both on the vaccination plan and on the management of the pandemic, namely Minister Hope, who continues to remain in his place, continuing with the same recipe, which has a keyword, one could say, a single keyword, that of closing. We are not Cassandre and we hope that the vaccination plan will be fine, but, even if it does go well, there is one thing that worries us very much. In the DEF, in fact, it is written that the budgetary deviation of 40 billion, which was requested by the Government, will be the last. In fact, in the DEF it is clearly written that, because of a pandemic and economic trend that is seen by the Government as increasingly positive, the expected budgetary deviation of 40 billion is the last. This really makes us tremble our wrists. We hear about closures and curfew, of which we do not really understand the need: the issue of curfew is really meaningless, because there is no scientific evidence that this virus only puts its legs at night, while here it seems that the virus from 22 o'clock onwards is absolutely more aggressive. We hear that it still has to close, close and close. Instead, we believe that it would be essential for this Government to stop talking about closures, especially for all those outdoor activities, where scientific evidence shows that the contagion is practically zero. On the other hand, the government says something different, which is good to repeat, because it would be very serious, namely that this is the last budgetary deviation. So the government tells us that we can close, that we will definitely close, but that there will be no more support. There is another fact that we are very concerned about this DEF. I want to read what is written in the Document of Economics and Finance: The economic system, net of operational interruptions, seems to have reached a form of coexistence with the virus. The DEF continues to see a greater resilience of the economy, probably also due to the ability of operators to adapt, both in terms of production and organizational choices and social behavior. So why in recent weeks have we seen so many economic operators, so many people living - or, better, living - of their own work manifest in the squares? Why, if in this DEF it is written that by now the productive and economic system has found a way to operate together with the virus, that is not more so harmful? [[Applause]] But did you realize? But have you seen the people who are manifesting and who are asking for the most dignified, honest thing in the world: to work? [[Applause]] Instead, you, too, continue to prevent it, with meaningless measures. I'd like to give you an example. Why did you always keep the tobacconists open (no tobacconists) of 30 square meters while you closed the shops of 200 square meters? You have to answer us. What's your ratio? [[Applause]] We of Brothers of Italy on this deviation that you have asked once again will do our part of patriots, because we realize that 40 billion euros are fundamental to give support to the productive categories. Of course, we are not so serene when we go to bed in the evening, because, if we are to see the historian of what you have done with the decrees 1, 2 and 3 and with the decrees support, we do not know if really this time you want to help the productive system or still want to give tips, prebende and help friends. Brothers of Italy want to believe. We are patriots, we will do our part, but we are very concerned about what is contained in the DEF. We are very concerned that we have seen that, moreover, tax pressure has increased in 2020, which is absurd: you do not work and you are also able to increase taxes. We're worried and we really hope this government finds... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u58	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, without making any controversy. Without entering into the substance of the free debate and the free opinions of the Groups in this House, I have heard the expression repeatedly: We are patriots. I would like to point out that it seems to me that we are all patriots here. [[Applause.]] Regardless of whether one sees it in one way or another, patriotism is not a prerogative of Brothers of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u59	Senator Airola, I believe that the whole House is absolutely convinced of your statement. Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u60	Mr President, colleagues and representatives of the Government, in the minutes I have available I want to propose two arguments. The first is a path that may seem like an abstract exercise, but that I believe, instead, can be useful to focus not only on what has happened, but also, for what remains to be done, on what needs to be done with the resources that we make available with this further budgetary deviation. We are now one year after the beginning of a pandemic that we have pursued with various measures, in the hope that around the corner, at some point, there would be the end of this unprecedented and tragic event that struck the entire planet. But in this year around the corner there was never the end of the pandemic. When we see things today, however, we can make an assessment that I believe can still be useful. What would we have done if we could have already put into account that there was a whole year of suspension of the economy of the entire country and also of the whole of Europe? What would we have done if we could have planned the actions knowing that a tourist season and a winter season would have been missed, a year of essentially closed public exercises, but also knowing what sectors would have been that could have continued to work because they were essential? In short, a preventive but overall assessment, putting in front of this an estimate of what would have been the resources necessary to make this crossing in the desert, and also the resources that reasonably we could have made available through budgetary deviations in order to contain the damage and the negative spill-overs. The data basically speak in these terms: in order to exceed a year, obviously not covering all that has been lacking in terms of turnover, but safeguarding the country's holding as a whole, they probably serve - I say they serve because I believe that this count is still valid - about 450 billion, compared to an extraordinary capacity of indebtedness of the country, which is also supported in this extraordinaryness by Europe, of 200 billion debt, that we have done and that we do today concluding this rally, after a year, considering all the deviations. How would we use these 200 billions? What would we have responded to? What would have been the priorities if we had not been forced to pursue the pandemic month by month? I believe that the priorities would have been three in a particular way: covering fixed costs; supporting companies' liquidity; supporting the integration fund. Basically, I am talking about the maintenance of productive capacity through the support of the labour force and the maintenance of assets, which determine and support the ability to produce our country. Yes, probably this may appear to be an abstract reasoning made today, but I believe it helps us to understand what are the answers that we must give with this last deviation of 40 billion; the answers that we must open and on which we must concentrate in order to maintain our productive capacity, both with regard to assets and with regard to the workforce. I repeat: fixed costs and liquidity. The second reasoning I want to make is concerning structural reforms. On this I would like to point out incidentally the value of the great solidarity pact that has been achieved in Europe between nations, because governments have understood that Europe is not only an internal market, but a complex economic system with internal interdependencies, which needs to be supported and helped to achieve overall efficiency, which means intervening in order to reduce disparities and thus give aid and support in a uneven way to go and support those parts of the system that determine its overall weakness. This explains why Italy is assured by the Next generation EU the most significant share of resources. Europe is finally beginning to think as a social and economic system, not only directed towards the rules of the internal market, but also considering its ability to compete in international markets. I am therefore talking about a Europe that looks at the production chains that are present on the continent as a whole, which compares with the other supply chains in the world. It was a fundamental fact: the Europe that understands this and decides to allocate extraordinary resources in a uneven way, also taking unprecedented steps such as the establishment of European debt securities, although still limited to the pandemic and not made structural. In this context, we are being asked for reforms. Beyond the fact that this document lacks the National Reform Plan, which is replaced by the PNRR, the substance is there. I believe that page 14 of the DEF, which contains the draft laws related to budgetary decisions, is the real test of the Government and the majority body. The draft law on simplification and reorganization in the field of innovative start-ups and SMEs, on the organic revision of incentives for companies, on the provisions for the development of supply chains to facilitate the aggregation between companies and for the revision of Legislative Decree No. 33 of 10 February 2010, i.e. the industrial property code, are in fact reproduced here, only to mention those of the most close interest of 10a. Standing Committee, to which I belong. Deciding on the content of those connected is the task that awaits us, as a government and as a Parliament, but above all as political forces. Let us give an acceleration, to place Italy, after the pandemic and after Covid, in a path of revival, not only of Italy, but of the whole of Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u62	Mr President, fourteen months after the pandemic broke out, the mountain economy has paid the highest price for restrictions and restrictions. While the seaside resorts, fortunately, were able to enjoy the parenthesis between the first and second waves and are now preparing for the new season, thanks to the progress of the vaccination campaign, the ski season coincided with the most acute phases of the spread of the virus. In practice in our territories has skipped an entire season, with facilities and hotels closed and the entire induced that has not been able to work a single day all the operators. As we know, all this has had serious consequences for seasonal workers, including mountain occupations, such as mountain guides and ski instructors, who have not always been part of the types of workers who have had access to the various forms of income support. For this reason, already in the autumn, when the previous government was still in office, we had called for special attention to our territories, which was then translated into the non-refundable aid for the snow supply chain, contained in the decree supports, launched by the new Government Draghi. I remember that those measures were agreed at a stage in which it was still believed that the ski season could start after the Christmas season. That is why it is not only necessary today to confirm them, in the measures that will be financed with this further budgetary deviation. On the one hand, we need a substantial strengthening of those resources and, on the other, a revision of the criteria for the quantification of aid. In particular it is necessary to find a mechanism that calculates the real loss, which, as we have said, weighs mainly for the lacked revenues of the first quarter 2021. We are aware of the effort that has been made to bring this deviation to EUR 40 billion. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the state has been in debt for about EUR 175 billion, but these resources have unfortunately not always been able to achieve the goal of supporting businesses. All the more reason why we need criteria that distribute resources, in proportion to the losses actually incurred, but today I believe that we need to work more on extensions and moratories, in order to lighten companies and households from the tax burden and thus facilitate access to credit. It is a subject of social justice, but also a theme of keeping the productive fabric in the border territories, which, let us not forget, must be confronted with competition and therefore also with tax regimes and the aid that economic operators in neighbouring countries receive. I always remember it from the point of view, important, that in the next budget law we intervene on the share sharing of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces to the consolidation of the accounts of the State. With the last budget law, due to the lower revenue, in Valle d'Aosta for example was left in cash a substantial part of the share. These resources have been essential to ensure the functioning of a whole range of services that are entirely charged to the regions with special status, such as school, health and civil protection. In the DEF that today we are going to approve, for all the Regions with special statute and the Autonomous Provinces the indicated quota is just 100 million. That is certainly not enough, so we call for it to be renegotiated and revised in order to continue to guarantee these essential services. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to make a comment on the reopenings. The last measure gives catering activities the opportunity to prepare lunches and dinners in the open air, in the dehor. This is a further example of how the reality of the mountain is not yet, after fourteen months of pandemics, taken into proper consideration. It is clear that a restaurant in a mountain resort cannot have its guests dining outdoors this season, unless they come with coats, scarfs and gloves, or ask the restaurateurs to equip themselves with stoves to heat the dehors. But what's his face in an area that's already on its knees? That is why, in the next measure, we will ask for further attention to be paid to the reality of the mountain. We have been repeating this for months, but the resources of the measures put in place so far, unfortunately, are not yet sufficient to save an entire tourism sector. For this reason our region, following the example of South Tyrol, is working on a pass that allows you to do activities even in the closed places. In any case, my hope is that every choice will take into account the specificities, including climatic, of the different territories. The mountain has suffered most of all, let's dedicate the attention it deserves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u64	Mr President, this is yet another budgetary deviation that we are about to vote on, but in fact debt is added to debt. The great Italian public debt has to do with the debt of the recovery fund: sometimes, in fact, in the narrative does not clearly show that it is money that we have to give back. However, the equation is not complete if we do not add the coefficients related to another fundamental factor, which is the decrease in gross domestic product caused by the closures and the economic crisis we are dealing with. All this determines a picture with gloomy hues, with little hope (I don't mean the Minister, pass me the joke). In my opinion, the problem is not so much public debt, because a sustainable public debt, which favours the growth of the economy and allows to trigger a virtuous mechanism for the revival of economic growth is also acceptable, although, as we know, the Italian one is particularly cumbersome. What worries us, in fact, is the prospect of managing this debt; what frightens us is the return from debt when applied and compared with the dramatic demographic decline. For this reason we were all shocked and shocked by the words of Minister Daniele Franco on page 131 of the Document of Economics and Finance, where there is a paragraph, apparently technical and neutral, entitled "Sensitivity with respect to demographic variables". I do not know if colleagues in the League have had a chance to take a look, but this Minister says that getting more immigrants in is a great way to reduce the ratio of public debt to GDP. I am saving you all the narration and the macroeconomic delicacies; the conclusion is that the increase in the net migratory flow of a third compared to the expected would allow to decrease the debt-to-GDP ratio in the next twenty years. That is what the Minister says. I want to say to those who think like this Minister that, in my opinion, more than hope for immigrants, I think we should invest in Italians, putting the young Italian couples at the centre, who do not even have access to the popular homes in many of our municipalities because of unfair laws. Why not invest in the birth rate? Why not invest on laws that favor the family, on kindergartens and on many other proposals that the Italian right and the patriots - I want to emphasize - of Brothers of Italy have always supported? We believe that all this - and I say this to the representatives of the Government - is shameful to say the least. Brothers of Italy will fight with every means to counter the immigrationist drift of this Government, which is perfectly in line with the previous Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u65	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u66	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues, the DEF, the deviation and the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which we are looking at almost at at the same time, tell of Italy's enormous challenges; they tell of the challenge of finally beginning to grow, and in a sustained way. They talk about the challenge of maintaining a public debt that is sustainable and capable of reducing, through the policies that we put in place to support new investments and also to prepare our public accounts to absorb any - which we obviously do not want - new crises. The challenges concern not only the economic part, but the whole of Italy because it is required - and the PNRR tells us very well - a radical transformation of our country on the green, digital, cohesion, skills required of Italians, and also a huge health challenge, which perhaps we are still partially underestimating. The health of Italians is, in fact, the assumption that everything we are talking about in the DEF can be achieved. That is why as Italy Viva we are recommending, asking, implementing a massive investment plan on health. The DEF challenges are very much about politics. Without falling into rhetoric, all of us who are part of this vast majority will be asked for rather high mediations to be reformers, to reform tax, justice, public administration, the labour market. We must not forget that all this will happen over the next five years and that it will not be up to us alone. Even those who sit in this House after us will have to have this spirit of cohesion and reform, which is offering us what some see as a great opportunity but at the same time with concern, as it is inescapable. And it is actually so; it is both. We can't go wrong right now. That of the reforms, of the recovery, I have to tell you about the reconstruction of Italy is a must. Coming to the DEF and to the macroeconomic arguments of public finance, and in particular to the deviation, the request for deviation - we know - has been made possible, like all the previous ones that we have approved this year, by the application of the clause of the "general escape clause," which gives all the European States the space of manoeuvre to be able to intervene. Italy has done much to deal with the epidemic, including the current deviation; we have invested 180 billion in interventions in favour of health, businesses and families. These 180 billion have increased our debt, then we will look at how it can continue to be sustainable. The 40 billion that will be authorized today with the deviation will serve for the measures of the decree enterprises, in particular for the enterprises, on the fixed costs, in order to favor the credit and the liquidity, but also to help the families more in difficulty, to help finally, as it is in the spirit of this our period and of the Next generation EU, the young people. Italy, like the other major European countries, has invested much, according to estimates by the International Monetary Fund, over 11% of GDP in economic support measures. The International Monetary Fund also outlines a global picture of interventions that are not exactly comparable to those of Europe, because we have two levels of intervention, national and European ones, but we need to know that the United States has invested more than 25% of GDP in interventions to cope with the epidemic and give a boost to their economy. Today we also approve of the revision of the Re-entry Plan towards the medium-term objective. Unfortunately, the level of net debt is 11.8% of GDP and will return to the level at which it should, therefore, be 3%, only from 2025. This is a first cause for concern, because this will happen temporarily after the re-introduction of the Stability and Growth Pact, which should be introduced in 2023 and which sets us another objective, what Italy must have primarily, namely the revision of the Stability and Growth Pact. This deviation also contains a very important novelty, which is the additional net debt of about 6 billion over the period 2025-2034, which will constitute the complementary investment fund. This fund will finance those interesting and priority projects proposed by the State administrations which, however, exceeded the overall measures for Italy in the Next Generation EU project. Today the expanded PNRR is made up of 191 billion of the resources of Recovery and residence facility, of the resources of other complementary funds, such as React-EU, for 15 billion and precisely of these additional resources equal to more than 31 billion of the complementary investment fund. From this point of view, the PNRR, as it must, very much helps the heart of this DEF, which is growth. GDP, especially in the years 2021-2022, is very positively affected by the impact of the push measures of the PNRR, also increasing compared to the trend of +0.5, +0.4 and reaching interesting levels: 4.5% in 2021 and 4.8% in 2022. On 2022, we have to say that the Parliamentary Budget Office has raised some concerns, but we still like to see this boost to growth in 4.8% of 2022. However, the problem of GDP remains, because GDP growth in the policy framework is not so sustained until 2024 and we need to ask ourselves why the PNRR is not able to give lasting, substantial and solid growth to our GDP. GDP is directly related to debt sustainability. The debt-to-GDP ratio is very high, higher than the NADEF forecast, because it stands at 159.8% in 2021. It is true that it is already back in 2022, to settle on the scheduled horizon at 152.7%, but it will take a decade to reach the debt levels of the pre-crisis debt-to-GDP ratio and still not enough, because we all remember the reasoning we were doing in this House just over a year and a half ago and knowing very well that our debt was already high and at the limit of sustainability before the crisis. Sustainability, therefore, is certainly a topic. The experts of the Parliamentary Budget Office are right when they say that the expansionary monetary policies, the European Union's initiatives for market stability have certainly reduced the volatility of the markets over the course of the year. Indeed, interest expenditure is low (3.5% of GDP in 2020) and will decrease further to 2024 to 2.6%. The issue remains open, however, because making debt sustainability dependent on growth is a huge bet. Because you have to be able to grow tattooically. I come, in conclusion, to the adverse scenarios that exist. We, today, are ready to support this look forward and, however, at the same time, we must look with a sense of realism at the adverse scenarios that exist and at the concerns regarding the maintenance of the macroeconomic framework. The DEF is based, in fact, on two assumptions: the favorable evolution of the pandemic and the invariance of the conditions of context. They are variables, however, that we cannot govern. Just thinking of the pandemic we know very well that there are risks of new variations, that the vaccination plan continues shipped thanks to the new Government, but that we have, however, of the problems of supplying. We also know very well two important things: the Stability and Growth Pact and the ECB's purchasing programmes since 2023 will see another approach compared to the supportive ones that we see. We are in favour - I repeat - of this positive vision, but the risks are there; they are "calculated," but there are. At this moment we must be clear that there is not simply the reputation of a very authoritative government called precisely to govern in a difficult context, but there is the holding of the real economy of Italy. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would ask for permission to attach the full text of the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u67	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u68	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u69	Mr President, Government, many of us have said that we are one year away from the pandemic. We started the vaccination course and we have an important plan. We know that this year has radically changed living, health, future and perspective conditions. It has changed not only the coexistence between people, but I believe - as Senator Zanda said well this morning, which I would like to mention very much - also the relationship between the functions of Parliament and the Government, in part objectively and, in part, not. I think that this is something that Parliament and the Senate must pay attention to because it is within that framework, as well as the reform plan, as has been said in one of the speeches this afternoon, which include - it is important to do so - the latest data that Istat has given us this morning. I take them back just to say that 32% of companies say that they fear the closure in 2021, that 45% of small enterprises that account for more than 20% of structural employment are at risk, especially in the tertiary sector and in production sectors that are highly exposed to international competition. Then there are the themes of tourism and cultural aspects of this country. In this situation we all perceive - every senator, every senator, every parliamentarians, but also those who have external representation like the social forces and the entrepreneurial forces - and we realize that this hard year needs this we do today, which is very important. We shall vote on the Economic and Financial Document (DEF) - Mr Collina reminded me that a friend of his was called that, but it is not right to do so - and we shall vote on the deviation in order to make an important intervention in support of companies, jobs and professions, with all that comes from it. The frame of reference and the vision of the Next generation EU and the recovery plan must never be lost, also and especially in these phases. This overall vision must make us cross the choices of this phase, not only because there is the deadline for the submission of the PNRR at the end of April, but because there we have determined our country unity and our vision to overcome all the structural gaps of growth and employment. [[Applause]] We have also discussed the productivity of this country in the Commission's work, because this is the element that makes growth strong. Then we must know (we are all aware) that we have a country waiting for our choices, waiting for this orientation, waiting for our consistency in these choices. Even in our debate, we must not give the idea of fragmentation in the way we discuss the various steps and projects (so we do not even help our parts of representation), because the Next generation EU and the recovery plan have to go through exactly everything. Since I have a few minutes, I would like to stress one aspect that this Senate and this Parliament have conquered in the debate and in the construction of the recovery plan, which concerns one of the fundamental gaps that our country suffers from and which, if not addressed, will not put us in a position to grow and to put work back at the centre with full quality employment: the increase in female employment. I will never tire of saying that, like all of us and all of us; we have also voted for it, but we must put it back at the centre of this choice and not because we say so alone. [[Applause]] All international indicators say that, without a structural increase in female employment, there is no growth and there is not even - I repeat - the conditions for responding to what this year of pandemic has put extraordinarily visible for the whole of society, i.e. where women are placed in their activities. They are placed in the care work, which, when they are lacking, clearly creates a difficulty in the democratic coexistence of women and men. This, therefore, has an extraordinary value. From this point of view I want to carry out another axis of reasoning, which has to do with putting at the center the objective of full and good employment in our country. Why at the end of the day what do we talk about when we talk about investment? We want to create quality work. But even here, in order to respond to the fundamental axis and vision that the Next generation EU has given us, there is exactly the cross-cutting chain of knowledge, without which even this absolutely does not cross the ground of ecological transition, digital transition and everything else. This is the other element. [[Applause]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the greatest expectations in this country are women and young people. But in order to do this seriously, I would like to take back a proposal that I hope will become of everyone. We need two great choices that we need to make together, Parliament and Government: we really need to build a social pact and an institutional pact, because we need, in order to relaunch the country, the Regions and the Municipalities. We need this and I think that we will be promoting together with others - I hope and look at my Parent Company - the establishment of a special bicameral commission to accompany and monitor (today, but also in the future legislature) the putting to the ground of the strategic choices we make with the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience, because this is also the vision ability that we must absolutely have. It seems to me that this is the necessary ground, at this political stage, which leads to transparency and the participation of citizens and citizens. Changes are difficult and conservation arrangements obviously remain standing in the stages of change. The changes therefore need a great deal of participation. The bicameral Commission is also crucial from this point of view, but above all the recovery pact is. This is a point of politics, it is not a look back at Ciampi, but it is a look at the real need and it is also the hope for which this emergency government, the Government Dragons, was born. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u71	Mr President, in my time, I will try to represent my point of view on the Economic and Financial Document and also to represent what could, in my opinion, be the consequences of the government's economic policy in which the DEF is incorporated. As is well known, the DEF is the main instrument of the cycle of economic planning and public finance. By law, this very important programme document must be accompanied by certain documents and all those measures which, in some way, affect revenue or expenditure. In fact, as an estimate that the Government makes and that Parliament has to assess what the country's economic development will be, obviously it must be based on elements that must to some extent be known to Parliament and, therefore, fully assessable. In particular, by law the DEF must be accompanied by the Reform Plan, because it is obvious that the latter can affect minor exits, just as it must be accompanied by all those rules and measures relevant from the point of view of revenue. In particular, the DEF provides and explicitly mentions the relevance of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. However, we do not know anything about this Plan, except what we have known from the previous Government: it was already rather smoky in itself and, however, this Government has said that it wants to change it in many parts of it. Moreover, the government again explicitly says that this time the DEF will not be accompanied by the Reform Plan, because it will be absorbed into the PNRR, which, as I said, we currently do not know. Therefore, I would like to ask my colleagues what they are voting on today and how they are currently judging this Economic and Financial Document, which does not contain the elements for its assessment. I also ask the Government: why was the PNRR not announced at the same time as the DEF as we asked? Personally, I have left my request in the Commission for the President of the Finance Commission to promote with the Government to have an anticipation, the ballots, the plans to be able to fully evaluate the DEF, but none of this has been done. So the question that follows immediately is: what are you hiding? How come the activity, which is certainly done by the government, is done not in the light of the sun. What are you hiding? What is the hidden plan that you try to take as far forward as possible, without the country and Parliament knowing it. In order to try to answer this disturbing question and, therefore, coming also to what may be the consequences of the economic policy in which this document of economy and finance is inserted, I would like to briefly enter into the detail of what can be understood even without the presence of those important annexes that I was talking about before. In particular, with regard to the general safeguard clause, which has so far allowed us not to apply the Stability Pact rigorously (even if the Pact is not suspended, but that path of return to the medium-term objective is suspended), the DEF presented to us today makes it clear that this parenthesis will go down. The general safeguard clause should not be extended in 2022 and the Government did not wish to commit itself, as requested by the Commission, to carry out the request for the extension of the general safeguard clause. The DEF clarifies, on the contrary, that it is important - I read in the words - that we be aware that in due course the fruits of increased growth will have to contribute to the strengthening of public finance because these European rules will again be tightened. And what, in fact, is the goal of this DEF? It is clear that the next path towards the medium-term objective is to restore the ratio of public debt to GDP to pre-crisis levels by the end of the decade. To do this, the path is very narrow. I quote some very synthetically not to bore you. Net debt is expected to decrease from 2021, both in absolute value and in relation to the ratio to GDP, by 100 billion euros in 2022, 69 billion euros in 2023, and 67 billion euros before 2024. It is written in the Document that this can be achieved, but it will require expenditure savings and revenue increases. As for revenue increases, it is difficult to think that there may be tax increases. Therefore, it will certainly have to be a saving in expenditure, which is likely to mean cuts in services. [[Applause]] So again we are faced with that austerity that will not do our economy any good. If we look up and try to understand the general context, we see that the EUR 200 billion is lending both in the so-called non-refundable part (because it weighs on the budget of the European Union, which will then have to be paid back with the budgets of the Member States), and in the part of the real loans that will have to be restored with a return plan. Therefore, on the one hand, Italy will have to start repaying this debt money in the coming years and, on the other hand, the Stability Pact will again be tightening and so we will have to follow the narrow path set out in the DEF. At the same time, the ECB will stop the program of purchase of Italian government bonds and, therefore, again, in order to be able to finance us on the market there will certainly be the problem of interest and spread. Moreover, if we bear in mind what has happened suddenly with the last Government, namely the strengthening of the so-called 'Save-State Fund' (the notorious ESM, the European Stability Mechanism), we understand that the lender of last resort will be the Fund that lends - yes - when the States are in difficulty, but against the transfer of sovereignty. All this set of rules that the current Government is adopting reminds me of what President Draghi said in his inauguration speech. He said many smoky things, but also one thing clear, namely that one of his Government's tasks would be to allow Italy's further transfer of sovereignty to Europe. I would not like the consequence of these pieces to be the pursuit of greater European integration by blows of economic spreads and blackmail. I want these things to stay in the record. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have warned you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u72	President of the vice-president, Mr Taverna (14.50). Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, welcome back to my colleague Adriano Galliani, Mr Galliani, representative of the Government, to speak in this House today, knowing that outside the country is waiting, suffering and resisting, it is our responsibility. Today, on behalf of Forza Italia, as well as the Presidency, the representative of the Government and my colleagues, I will address myself directly with sincerity and simplicity to the people who follow our work. We are putting it all in front of all the health, alongside the support for economic restart, to support the action of the Government, bringing as Parliament the demands of the territories and also suggesting adjustments to decisions that can create difficulties of application: I refer, for example, to the issue of curfew at 22, for which Forza Italia has already asked for a possibility of revision within ten days. Therefore vaccines, vaccines and vaccines, direct and indirect economic aid, thanks to moratorias and tax credits, to overcome the great challenge of overcoming the emergency and guaranteeing recovery. When we decided to support the Draghi government, we did so with a total spirit of service, determined to give the country in its most difficult moment the most authoritative, most credible and most correct guide, that it could first create stability, overcoming also the natural differences on the part of every political movement, to work together to overcome the health emergency and, consequently, social and economic. Forza Italia brings its contribution daily, through its representatives to the Government and in Parliament, and does so with clear and concrete proposals that the Executive demonstrates to share, including them in the government guidelines. I am thinking of the issue of flexible work, the re-introduction of emergency work vouchers, for example, proposed by Deputy Minister Pichetto Fratin, in order to get our young people to work immediately or those who have been out of work, while fighting illegal and illegal work without protection. I am referring to the major issues of health protection and, in this regard, let me thank all the volunteers who are available 24 hours a day. [[Applause]] in the vaccination centers with their indispensable work (doctors, nurses, health professionals, pharmacists, civil protection, alpine), with an integrated system that sees side by side all the hospitals in the field. The protection of health sees Forza Italia alongside the Government's decision to provide a green pass for free movement, a pass of freedom, as we like to call it [[Applause]] The proposal is to create a simple-to-use application that allows access to sporting, cultural, trade fair, weddings and events in general. The country needs immediate support, needs to feel safe and to do so there is a need for the government, supported by the action of Parliament, to implement every possible intervention to transform a necessary debt in the lever for restarting. In short, debt must become a real recovery accelerator and in this sense infrastructure and real estate can make a difference. I think, for example, of smart cities, the real cities of the future and I think of the central theme of urban regeneration that we are working on and that Forza Italia considers fundamental for well-being and harmonious growth. So far we have spent - not always well in the past - already 202 billion. To unused holiday bonuses, scooter bonuses, school wheelchairs we would like, for example, to prefer the sport and health bonus, which would have the double usefulness of supporting gyms and sports centers, allowing physical and moral recovery after illness to people of all ages. For the immediate emergency is ready another deviation of 40 billion, what we are voting today, for a second decree supports not to forget and leave anyone behind. I am thinking of the mountain, for example, for which we are trying to compensate for the missed revenues of a season never begun, despite the investments put in the field. This government will have to work to lay the foundations of an overall perspective that moves from a revolutionary system of reforms and public investment: public administration and simplification (we have it), justice (we have it), tax (we have it), industrial plan, school and training, ecological transition. The latter will have to be and will be the greatest flywheel. For this reason, the new Ministry will well come, which will have to become central for the development of a new world, a world that will have to see the public and the private linked by a great alliance with the environment, protected precisely thanks to progress and innovation. Supporting and encouraging companies, from the largest to the micro, during the transition, will be the only way to achieve the objectives that our common sense demands of us, before Europe, to achieve that virtuous system that can reconcile work, production, social cohesion and respect for the environment. What better hope, just today that World Earth Day is celebrated? [[Applause]] Economic growth therefore becomes an enabling factor for environmental and social sustainability. There is a need for certainty and planning, because the post-pandemic world, as many colleagues have mentioned, will no longer be the same and we will no longer have to be the same. As President Draghi rightly said in his first speech to the Chambers, it will be necessary to adapt itself in order to be able to grow, politics first and foremost. It is essential, as my colleague, Mr Floris, who is sitting next to me, to focus on human capital, training, from primary school to university, providing periodic business updates to govern innovation. We're ready and we're working like never before. This document of economy and finance and the next National plan of recovery and resilience, together with vaccines, may be the light at the bottom of the tunnel for the entire production system, for bus stops, for walking, for traders, for professionals, for VAT matches. The pandemic has changed the world and Italy must return to the center, through the valorization of the immaterial infrastructure that we own only, the made in Italy, that "made in Italy" that must continue to be the best guarantee of quality and uniqueness of our territories and our products. We will not stop working so that everyone can return to work. Come on, Italy! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u74	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this vast majority we are all here to solve the problems of Italy and the Italians. The problems are before everyone's eyes, but different sensitivities mean that there is a debate in identifying the best way to solve them. This Economic and Financial Document is the main programming document for economic and budgetary policy. It has the heavy task of drawing up the lines of action for the future; a future that must be of recovery, of return to normality, dealing with a health crisis that has led to an economic and social disaster. I would therefore like to focus on how I see some solutions. The health problem has, in my opinion, been the victim of a macroscopic basic error; I am referring to home care in the first few days of illness. We have taken note of this problem, we have all voted together in the Senate on an agenda that goes in the direction of encouraging home care. However, we must all believe in it together. There are doctors who have been treating tens of thousands of people since April 2020. Among these people, fortunately - they say unfortunately - the dead count on the fingers of one hand. So, gentlemen, let's take advantage of these experiences and add to the strategy of vaccines the strategy (the weapon, I would say) that has already proved effective, that of early treatment in the first three days of illness. Only with good and effective care can we allow ourselves to face the health crisis. Returning to the DEF, we will approve here a further deviation of EUR 40 billion, necessary to help the economic fabric exhausted by closures; an economic fabric that, if not restarted, cannot be compensated indefinitely. The best support for the economy is the reopening of economic activities, in particular of receptive ones, but avoiding rules that are not understandable - I would call them arbitrary rules - for those who live everyday life and clearly see contradictions. To relaunch this country, to spend well the 40 billion that we are preparing to authorize here and the money that will come and that is linked to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we need a real simplification. We all agree that bureaucracy is a scourge of this country, but paradoxically we continue to complicate the lives of our fellow citizens with increasingly absurd rules and sometimes misspelled laws that leave room for interpretations, which block the country, as for example is happening for the superbonus 110%. We should all get our hands on these rules together. To re-launch this country we need to help companies in their liquidity and access to credit, but also by improving the payment times of the commercial debts of the public administration and guaranteeing the payment of the remaining debt stock. A tax reform process must be started, but it must be accompanied by a coherent process of structural tax reform. [[Applause]] , with particular reference to the cancellation of inexpensive tax credits and the possibility of deferring the amounts due, suspended and not collected. A real fiscal peace must be put in place in the relationship between tax and taxpayer and the implementation of the deflated measures of the ongoing litigation. I do not go any further, Mr President, because we in the League and I as a small entrepreneur clearly see from the base what are the difficulties of the economic fabric and the suffering of the economic categories. We all work together, colleagues, without ideological preconceptions. It is an appeal that I address to you: we all work together - I repeat - without ideological preconceptions in the interest of this beautiful country of ours. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u76	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, let us imagine for a moment that a person who is used to running or walking in the plain one day finds himself in front of a mountain. This person starts climbing the mountain and will have moments of discouragement, since he begins to encounter many obstacles, which are not represented by the track, the boulder that meets in the mountains or the usual to face. The biggest obstacle this runner can have is fear. The Covid made us all tired; the race with the Covid made us all tired. Many are now resigned and think that it is not possible to untangle, to see the top of the mountain. Instead, with this deviation from EUR 40 billion we are really seeing the top of the mountain and we are saying that it is possible to return to run again; we will do it with greater agility, with greater strength, with greater awareness. These 40 billion will be allocated to those who have suffered most economically during this period, and we are therefore talking about entrepreneurs and self-employed workers. This is important, but it's just a piece of the puzzle that we're composing together to give a definitive exit vision from the economic crisis caused by Covid. This is one of the last pieces, and then we'll be back on the run. Think, from February 2020, when we started to cure the country with the decree-law care Italy, we have put the largest sum of economic resources in our country on the territory: we are talking about as much as 200 billion euros. It's money that, with the arranged investment combinations on recovery, they're directing Europe's economic policy. It is an economic policy that Europe must change and can no longer be the one that has been unable to help us in the face of the very serious economic crises of 2008 and 2011. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can think of President Draghi's words when he said that we must leave a good planet and not just a good currency. We are sure that these economic policies, on which we are dealing with Europe, will create a Europe that is less accounting and more supportive. It is certainly a difficult path, which is not concluded, but which at least has begun. The government crisis that we experienced at the beginning of 2021 was going to completely frustrate the previous budgetary deviation from 32 billion euros. But now we know where to intervene. First of all, we must make the refreshments faster and more proportionate to the real losses suffered. In order to do this, already with the decree supports we have abandoned the logic of the codes Ateco and we have finally looked at the annual turnover, but now we have to do more. So the hope is that, with the new measures, we can refer to the proportional reductions in the margins of companies, and therefore of business profits, as well as to fixed costs. This new logic is required of us by those who, in reality, experience greater suffering in this period. It was yesterday's conversation that I had with a restaurateur in my area, in Caserta province, who told me that his biggest problem, beyond the refreshments, who arrived - sometimes late, but arrived - was that he had to anticipate the integration fund to his employees: this was a big problem for him and now he is glad that there is definitely a change of logic. With the EUR 40 billion, however, there will not only be returns to companies and workers, but there will also be money to complete the action plan foreseen in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. All this is not enough, however, because once again we need to have more courage. There are measures designed before or during the Covid period, the positive effects of which will also be seen in the next period and, indeed, may and will have to be taken in the post-Covid period. I would like to mention mainly two of the measures: the Spanish rule and the 110% superbonus. [[Applause]] These are two pivotal measures, strongly desired by the Movimento 5 Stars. The Spanish rule is intended for small municipalities, which for too many years have seen the disinterest of politics. This rule becomes the centerpiece of the Plan regenerates Italy, wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars, which previews a billion euros to the municipalities, granted with appropriations from 100,000 to 500,000 euros, depending on the inhabitants of the municipalities. With those resources, our mayors will be able to do maintenance and environmental sustainability; they will be able to secure schools and make them energy efficient; they will be able to finish a cycle path; maintain a road or remove those holes that parents and children face every day to go to school or work; they will be able to build a photovoltaic system on a municipal property and - why not? - to become the leader for the realization of an energy community in that municipality, with all the benefits of the case. [[Applause]] We first remembered the 110% superbonus, a measure that has been able to open two doors, that of the revival of the building, with so many works of energy efficiency and anti-seismic improvement, and that of the cession, of the certification and circulation of the tax credit: this is the real novelty. The 110 percent superbonus certainly had a first period of hesitation and nobody denies it, but it is also true that now it is flying and everyone sees it. We have exceeded one billion euros of work and we are well over 1.5 billion euros of projects, which will therefore become credits increased by 10% towards the state. Above all, the whole country is scattered with yards, from North to South. You think that, from the beginning of the year to today, we are talking about a 500 percent increase in construction sites. [[Applause]] And next Monday it is also the turn of a yard of a small enterprise in the province of Avellino, that it has finally managed to understand the operation of the superbonus and, after having understood it, it has managed to find a bank that buys its credits and finally can start its first yard in a condominium of ten apartments, that will be energy efficient and they will be able to pay a lower cost of the bills and above all protect the environment. That of the superbonus, however, is not an end in itself reasoning, because we want to widen the scope in which to recognize the circulation of tax credits. The 5 Star Movement sets itself this objective, which goes hand in hand with its plan to provide for a computer platform that allows the certification and circulation of tax credits, so that they become a tax currency with which to pay goods, services and perhaps a tomorrow do the shopping and pay the engineer, the doctor, the lawyer. This is what the Movimento 5 Stars wants, and to do so, it has tabled a package of amendments to the Decree-Law support and other proposals will make them within the measures that will come to Parliament. I would like to remind all my colleagues that the superbonus and the extension of the scope of bonus competence have already been voted in this House with the vote on the report on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan adopted by a large majority on 31 March 2021. Today, however, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the time to highlight the different political lines that exist between us, but to have the courage to carry out together the measures that are already giving great results, so that we can all come back to freedom again soon. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u78	The joint debate is closed. I communicate to the Assembly that the Presidency has received, on the Report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, motions for resolutions nos. 100, presented by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, De Petris, Malpezzi, Pharaoh and Unterberger, and 101, presented by Senator Ciriani and other Senators. In addition, the Presidency has received motions for resolutions Nos 3 and 4 on the 2021 Economic and Financial Document. 1, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators, and 2 (text 2), presented by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, Malpezzi, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur, Senator Steger.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u79	Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken for their interesting and useful contribution. Today we are discussing a particular DEF with exceptional short-, medium- and long-term risk factors due to the effects of the pandemic. A short-term risk is mainly that of new variants of the virus and that of the more or less fast and effective course of the vaccination campaign; the longer the risk comes from the need to reduce the financial imbalances resulting from the pandemic. The Government gives us a very ambitious DEF; it will all depend on how Italy will be able to commit European resources. Governance on the PNRR will be crucial, concentrated - as you hear from unofficial voices - within the Ministry of Economy and Finance. I share this approach, as well as Mr Misiani's proposal to set up a bicameral Commission to accompany this process to ensure transparency and cooperation between the Government and Parliament. Then it will be essential to implement reforms of public administration, justice, tax, competition and labour and social shock absorbers. I see two problems: the first concerns the quality of the work of the public administration, both at central and decentralised level in local authorities. There you have to invest; there you have to step up to ensure a professional and fast approach by the public administration. The second risk is - in my opinion - to be seen in the need to return to debt, which is essential once the pandemic has been overcome. The recovery is based on strategic industrial policy choices, which Italy has not pursued in the last two decades. The productivity crisis we see now goes back not only to pandemic periods, but also to earlier ones. Even before the 2007 economic crisis, we had already - in the first decade of the 2000s - a stasis of productivity. Finally, it will be necessary to deal with the European Commission's temporary framework on State aid: the duration of State aid must be extended from six to fifteen years on the guarantee, on the loans. Personally, I am optimistic: I see a very determined Dragon Government, with a very pragmatic and professional approach. That is why I am confident that the objectives set by the Government in this DEF will really be achieved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u80	I call the rapporteur, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u81	Mr President, I agree with all the speeches that have taken place and which I call a niche, and that is right. Each of you is the spokesperson for a segment of civil life in your territory, where there are obviously different problems, different sensitivities. Of course, important measures - such as those before the Senate's attention today - would have deserved an audience with everyone present to listen silently; the silence that suits a context that aims to find solutions; the silence that has the value of respect for Italians who suffer daily on their skin, physically, morally, economically - all over them - the effects of the pandemic. You have said almost all: 40 billion debt is a lot and, added to what we have already approved between 2020 and 2021, almost 200 billion. You've all said it: this money is debt that we will carry on over the years. You have all said this: we must make the necessary reforms, so I have the feeling - hopefully - that you all have more or less confidence that this measure is not in itself - my colleague Ferrero has already said that the Document of Economics and Finance is the most important document of economic policy - but it must be seen in its entirety, along with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which will be the support of the recovery fund. We will therefore have to have a comprehensive view of these measures in order to understand what the future scenarios will be. The beginning of all the measures are the vaccination and normalization of the daily life of each of us: it is important to return to normal life, it is important to resume our lives and have the everyday life that life proposes to us. But when we are all vaccinated, when the pandemic is at rest, what will remain of this Italy, with all the money we have paid, with everything we have tried to make but that, if you look well and be careful - your territories say it and call it back - seems almost not there was? There are still shortcomings that are being claimed today; there are areas that have not been considered. Why this? This is because the regulations put in place have often been the subject of too long a debate; because the decree supports - as I said before - allocates resources of 32 billion, but it will see the light in May, after 3,000 amendments; because to open and close we make unclear rules: we do not know who can open the bar, whether outdoors, with or without dehor, if he can open the hairdresser. We have made the life of Italians even more difficult, as well as everything that has been there. [[Applause]] I can think of a phrase that my father used to say to me: fear of debt? No: you don't have to be afraid of debts, because as long as there are debts there is life, because you have to roll up your sleeves to honor them. In this regard, allow me to open a parenthesis and address a hug to Senator Pittoni, who lost his dad today. It reminded me of my father, and that's why I remembered him. [[Applause]] Here, then, let's roll up the sleeves, which means first of all asking the question because there is something wrong with support or refreshment or liquidity. It is not that they do not go in themselves, it is not too little or too much money: it is the method that we have to change. Do you want the directing booth, the table, two hands, four hands, six hands, the social pact, the devil's pact? We do what you want, as long as we stand out, because otherwise the problem isn't the Italians out there who need money, but it's us in here. The problem is we who are not able to legislate in such a way that we can be truly useful to Italians. We are senators and the jacket we wear is paid to us by Italians and we must be useful and, in order to be able to be, we must be effective. And perhaps the importance of this deviation, which will lead to further indebtedness, lies in the fact that we all have the weight that we go to debt. But these debts must not scare us: we must be able to face them regardless of the sides, the niches, the pins, the jackets, the territories, because Italy is one and we must put it back on its feet, because the disease will go away and we must be able to do what we have unfortunately not been able to do in previous years. I do not point my finger at anyone: those who arrived before me faced a completely different economic, social and moral situation, but our country is a little backward from a Europe that takes money but already has reforms, while we do not have them. We cannot continue to say that we will reform them. Let me give you a trivial example: European law from page 50 to page 60, to chapter 8, brings infringement of the Procurement Code. Don't worry about it. We carry the PNRR with the European infringement, but these are things that are not together. [[Applause]] That's what my colleagues, Senators Ferrero, Rivolta and Garnero Santanchè said: it's the reforms. So what do we do? Are we going to do a public administration reform? That's right. A reform of justice? Necessary. Labour reforms, tax reforms? Necessary. We're behind. We have to move, but this time we have to do it seriously: we cannot move only in words or just in narrow circles or just in niches or just in vindication of what has been said and done. We have to do this because we have children who also have children, and we're going to get to levels where it's not enough to throw money in, because not only will we not have them and we won't be able to return them, but we'll go back to history as the problem. Welcome 40 billion, come even 100 billion, but honor the debts, work head-to-head. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u82	The Presidency joins the pain of Senator Pittoni for the loss of his father. As he is not here, it is understood that Senator Calandrini has given up his speech. I call the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask him to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions submitted to the Report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, and to indicate which motion for a resolution on the Economic and Financial Document he intends to accept. I'm sensing that RAI is on-going.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u83	Mr President, the Government welcomes the motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2) on the Document on Economics and Finance in 2021, tabled by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, De Petris, Malpezzi, Pharaoh and Unterberger. The Government, on the other hand, expresses a contrary opinion on the proposal for solution No. 1, relating to the Document of Economics and Finance, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators of the Fratelli d'Italia Group. The Government still expresses a favourable opinion on the proposal for solution No 100, submitted to the report, pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, De Petris, Malpezzi, Pharaoh and Unterberger. The Government gives an opinion against the motion for a resolution No 101, submitted to the report, pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, by Senator Ciriani and other Senators of the Fratelli d'Italia Group. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the fruitful debate on the request for a deviation from the Government and on the Economic and Financial Document. As is evident from the positions that have emerged and from the reading of the various proposals for solutions, there are different opinions on the measures taken by the Government and on the measures being prepared. The evolution of the Italian and international economy, still conditioned by the epidemic by Covid-19 and the measures necessary to contain its diffusion, requires an effort on the part of all to ensure the maximum degree of unity and commitment to the exit from the crisis. The document of economy and finance frames the request for deviation in economic and public finance and highlights the impact that the measures of containment of the epidemic have had and will have on the economy. As anticipated in recent days by Minister Franco, in 2020, after the strong fall recorded in the first quarter, real GDP recovered sharply in the summer quarter, and then returned to decline in the last quarter. The decline at the end of 2020 was due to a tightening of restrictive measures to limit the spread of the epidemic. According to Istat's official estimates, 2020 ended with a fall in GDP of 8.9% in real terms and 7.8% in nominal terms. The trend estimates contained in the DEF, which take into account the creation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan presented in January and last month's Support Decree-Law, indicate the annual GDP growth of 2021 of 4.1 percent, compared to the 6% contained in the NADEF Programme Framework, published in September 2020. The downward revision depended on a more severe epidemiological picture than expected and essentially in line with the most unfavourable scenario in NADEF. In order to face the uncertainty of the epidemiological and economic framework and to minimize the risks associated with the continuation of this phase, the Government considers it necessary to strengthen the path of growth in order to emerge from the crisis. After giving a first impulse to the revival of the economy through the decree-law launched last March 2021, called support and examination of the Senate, on the basis of the previous budgetary deviation authorized by Parliament, it is necessary, in fact, to prepare immediate interventions of support to the economy that, in addition to accelerating the immediate start of the recovery, ensure that this is lasting, being able to count in the medium term on a large use of resources guaranteed by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u84	I would like to interrupt you, Secretary, to remind you that the half-hour deadline for tabling any amendments to this proposal starts now.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u85	The primary requirement for the majority and the government is to support the various economic sectors for as long as necessary and to continue to compensate the companies and workers most affected by the health restrictions measures, in order to avoid the definitive closure of many jobs and companies. These reasons led the Government, together with the presentation of the DEF, to request the Parliament to authorise a new deviation from the return path towards the medium-term objective pursuant to Law No 243 of 2012. The Commission therefore considered it appropriate to attach to the DEF a new request for authorisation to Parliament to extend the use of debt in relation to what has been planned so far, and also to make use of the possibility of incorporating the National Reform Programme into the National Recovery and Resilience Programme. Therefore, the PNR has not been submitted separately, but has been replaced by a discussion on reforms within the PNRR, which is being defined and will be submitted to the European Commission in due course, after notice to Parliament. The Government therefore, while in the hope that the improvement of epidemiological and economic conditions will make today's last intervention of this magnitude, intends to require for the current year the authorization to a deviation whose size is 40 billion and at the same time the authorization to a deviation of approximately 6 billion for the years 2022-2033, aimed at finding the resources necessary for the financing of public investment expenditures. It is easy to understand, therefore, how the Government intends to use the deviation required to undertake a very ambitious spending programme, which it considers essential to support the economy in this emerging phase and to ensure a stable and lasting recovery. The resources required with the deviation will be used for a dual purpose. Firstly, in continuity with what was done with the last decree, the Government considers it essential to continue and support the economy with great determination, first of all compensating the workers, families and enterprises most affected by the restrictive measures that have become necessary. Secondly, part of the resources of the deviation will be used to accompany and strengthen the response of the economy in the early stages of the recovery of the next quarters, being essential to return soon to grow at a sustained pace and in a lasting way. In particular, the details of the interventions that will be contained in the next decree-law are being defined, also on the basis of the contributions emerged from the careful examination of the agendas that have been approved by the House and the Senate on the previous economic measures launched by the Government. The increased resources that will be available through parliamentary authorisations will be used primarily to continue the support of the productive fabric, in order to facilitate and accelerate the recovery phase. The next approval decree will contain new grants, including compensation for fixed costs, and will allocate resources to strengthen the resilience of companies most affected by closures, availability of credit and capitalisation of companies. Interventions are being studied for young people, for the purchase of the first house, and for families in greatest difficulty, including through the allocation of additional resources for local authorities. The strategy that the Government intends to implement with this new deviation does not end, however, in the current year. In fact, the second direction of the crisis exit strategy has a multi-annual horizon and will be based on a strong boost on investment. As Mr Franco also pointed out in the previous hearing, we will shortly finance the PNRR, which, in addition to drawing up a series of structural reforms, will allow to plan and finalise investments for more than 190 billion. Nevertheless, the Government considers it appropriate to strengthen the PNRR's investment programme with the allocation of additional national resources for a number of additional projects considered priority, which have not found capacity within the European funds. In particular, the resources of the Complementary Plan are allocated to projects which, although considered priority, could not be included in the European programme and which will, however, be accompanied by quantitative targets and intermediate targets (target and milestone), monitored and controlled by the national authorities in the same way as the PNRR. The approach based on targets and milestones according to a default timeline, in fact, allows to monitor all the stages of realization of a public intervention and to identify promptly the causes that can determine the block of investments, as well as to guarantee the maximum transparency on the use of resources. In parallel with measures to support the economy, however, prudent management of public finance is necessary to undertake a path of progressive debt reduction; this path is also indispensable in the light of the European context in which fiscal policy will operate in the coming years. The financial conditions for the issuance of our debt securities are relaxed, also thanks to the ECB's significant purchase programmes. These measures will continue to be operational as long as the pandemic emergency and monetary accompaniment so require. However, it can be assumed that, when economic conditions allow, the support of the euro system will gradually be reduced. (3.40 p.m.) (DURIGON, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance). We also find ourselves in a context in which the budgetary rules are essentially suspended and we expect them to remain so next year. Although we believe that these rules will have to be rethinked, they will certainly come into force in the coming years to ensure that public finances are in order in all the countries of the European Union. It will therefore be necessary to start a reflection in order to guide the future return of the current situation of over-indebtedness; a return that can only take place without delay by implementing the investment plan called for and paying particular attention to current expenditure, which will have to make an important contribution to the rethinking of public accounts. With regard to the comments made by my fellow Members during the debate, whom I thank for their contribution to the debate, I would like to make a few clarifications, apologizing if I cannot do so on time for everyone. Preliminaryly, I would like to point out here, which is the greatest expression of democracy, that the Government is very clear about the centrality of Parliament and the essentiality of its continued intercourse in the choices. With regard to the observation regarding the absence of some accompanying documents of the DEF, I would like to point out that, on 20 April last, the report on the state of implementation of the reform of the accounting and public finance, provided for in Article 3 of Law No 196 of 2009, and the document on the expenditure of the State in the autonomous regions and provinces, both prepared by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, were sent. In addition, always with reference to what has emerged from previous interventions, I would like to remind you that a debate is taking place at European level on budgetary rules and that there is full awareness of all the countries of the euro and the European Union in general that any individual action of the individual countries would be ineffective and probably counterproductive. Regarding the observations regarding the need for a prospective vision to support today's crisis period, full of risks and aimed at growth for tomorrow, it is reiterated that the Government's intention is to address the emergency by looking to the future and strategy of the country 2030-2050, as also stated by President Draghi in his latest communications last February. I also repeat that the Government has always argued that recovery and resilience interventions can draw on an integrated strategy made not only of PNRR, but also of European programming, whose use will be improved, and from additional budgetary resources. With regard to the need to provide certainty at this stage of particular difficulty, including by extending the repayment of guarantees to thirty years, I would like to point out that the Government is acting in this direction. In fact, it is considering possible measures to allow the extension of loans and the temporal extension of public guarantees. These measures must be compatible with the temporary framework. The debate also highlighted the need for a fairer and more organic tax reform. Again, I would like to reassure you that the reform of the tax system, and in particular of the Irpef, is a priority of the Government, which will benefit from the generous and valuable work carried out by the Chamber and Senate Commissions on this matter. Finally, as regards the comments made by my colleagues on fiscal issues, I would like to point out that the tax burden on GDP was 43.1% in 2020, an increase of seven tenths of a point compared to 2019. This trend in the fiscal pressure indicator during 2020 depends not on regulatory changes (e.g. increases in rates) which have led to an increase in tax and contribution levies, but on technical factors. In 2020 the total revenues in the public administration include an estimate of some tax and contribution payments of 2020, which the Government suspended and deferred to the following years, with the provisions introduced to support taxpayers and economic activities most severely affected by the restriction measures following the economic health emergency. The reclassification of these revenues since 2020 has been carried out to ensure that flows are properly recorded in accordance with the principle of economic competence, in line with the provisions of the European System of Accounts. This is about 8.1 billion tax revenue and 1.5 billion social contributions. For the same reason, 2020 revenue also includes EUR 700 million as a tax on digital services (tax due to expire on 16 May). These flows contributed to raising the level of revenue in 2020 and reflected the increase in the tax burden calculated in 2020 compared to the previous year. Recalculating the tax burden net of tax revenues and contributions reallocated to 2020 and net of supplementary treatment, the tax burden of 2020 stands at 41.7% of GDP (2 tenths less than in 2019, when it was 41.9%). We are therefore faced with a global strategy for which it is good to seek and pursue - and this is the Government's intention - the highest degree of unity, collaboration and dialogue among all the forces of the country. This is a difficult challenge, but we think this country is able to face it and overcome it. That is why we call for broad support and a joint vote by Parliament on the request for deviation and also on the underlying Economic and Financial Document, which presents the forecasts on which the request for deviation is based. The Government's wish is that the new budgetary deviation that we call on Parliament to approve will receive the support of all political forces and be the last before a general recovery of our economy. Thanks also to the full implementation of the vaccination plan, the country can start along a path of recovery that allows to overcome one of the most difficult periods in republican history. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u86	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u89	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Document on Economics and Finance draws a very ambitious picture, betting on the PNRR as a lever to start a sustainable and sustained economic cycle, able to resolve the structural problems that characterized the Italian economy before the pandemic. To achieve these objectives, great courage is needed in the reforms indicated in the path: speeding up the judicial machinery, reducing labour costs and injecting skills into the public administration through staff training and a recruitment plan that looks above all at local authorities and peripheral structures. But that is not enough, as we also need a rethinking of industrial policy to increase Italy's competitiveness. In the DEF, the sustainability of debt is linked to this important growth capacity: a necessary bet, provided that it does not become a gamble. For this reason, it would be appropriate to imagine with Europe also an alternative plan for returning from debt (this speech, closely intertwined with the one on the Stability Pact). It is unthinkable that, after all that has happened, sooner or later we will return to the existing rules, which already did not work before the pandemic and let alone what effects they might have now. Mr President, three months ago, when the fifth budgetary deviation was approved, we said that we would soon need another equal amount, if not higher. Today we are putting in place another EUR 40 billion and thus reach the figure of EUR 175 billion in debt since the beginning of the pandemic, to which will be added 120 billion not lost in recovery. That is why we must make the criteria for the distribution of these resources more and more efficient. The so-called support decree had the merit of replacing the Ateco codes with the losses of turnover between 2019 and 2020. However, I do not think this time frame is adequate. I understand the motivation of those who say that, leaving everything unchanged, the aid will go automatically and without bureaucratic hiccups, but we need equal elements. I believe that the optimal solution is to make companies decide on the reference period, choosing between the calendar year 2019 and the solar year 2020 or, alternatively, between the twelve months from March 2019 to March 2020, and those from March 2020 to March 2021. This would not do justice to those who did not work one day in 2021. This is particularly true of the mountain economy, which has been the most affected by the restrictions of recent months. However, it would be a mistake to think that these resources, however important, can solve the liquidity node, which is the real issue for the survival of companies. According to the Svimez-MCC report of the more than 200,000 companies that have contracted guaranteed loans over the Covid period, 67,000 with good profitability and sustainable debt would have fallen in category without those loans and at least 56,000 would have ended up in the worst class, i.e. with low profitability, strong debt and low liquidity. This is why measures to support liquidity need to be extended and strengthened, not only through grants, but also through the extension of depreciation and tax credits. In the same way, their capitalization and diversification of financial sources must be strengthened in the medium term. Meanwhile, already in the conversion of the first decree supports, we must work on the strand of fixed costs and on the issues related to rents (Tari, IMU, TOSAP, canon Rai). There are a number of amendments tabled in the Senate which go in this direction. It strikes me, however, that the support decree has not dealt sufficiently with the issue of seasonal workers. In the autonomous province of Bolzano alone in 2020 seasonal workers were employed for only three and a half months, compared to eight months in previous years. It is estimated that there are about 10,000 people who no longer have the coverage of the New Employment Social Insurance (Naspi) since January. That is why I hope that this budgetary deviation will also serve to renew and extend this social shock absorber. But the best help, Mr President, is the safe openings. The citizens understood the first lockdown, because at that time it was right for it to close: we had no masks, we didn't even have disinfectants, we didn't have seats in intensive care and we didn't know anything about how the virus was transmitted. Even in the autumn we understood it: there was no such widespread spread of rapid tests and, above all, vaccines were still missing. But now the swabs are accessible to everyone and on the vaccines the organizational machine is working net of the delays in the deliveries. It is good, then, that at least on outdoor activities there is a loosening. Perhaps it could have been done earlier, since science tells us that out of 1,000 people only one is infected outdoors. Even on closed places, however, something must be done, further loosening the grip on limitations on individual rights constitutionally guaranteed. South Tyrol has implemented a project that somehow follows and anticipates that of the vaccination pass. The goal is to create the Covid safe area for cinemas, theatres, gyms, restaurants and other closed places, which means allowing access to people who have already been vaccinated or who have undergone a quick buffer in the previous 72 hours. The idea is that the health care company will release a QR code on paper or by e-mail or SMS to people vaccinated. People who have done a swab can enter the negative test results in the health care company's Covid test database. Do-it-yourself tests may also be taken into account, provided that they are carried out in the presence of authorised persons. At that point the negative people will present their QR code at the entrance of the Covid safe area, where a scanner similar to what we find at the airports will indicate a green light to allow access or a red one, if the requirements are not satisfied, for example if they have spent more than seventy-two hours from carrying out the buffer. This system is a very strong incentive to test and thus becomes a constant and capillary monitoring tool, because it intercepts also all those people who have never done a diagnostic test for fear of being put in quarantine; now that they are offered freedom, they are willing to do the tests, so the outbreaks are much easier to detect immediately. We could be the lab, so I really hope that the national government won't oppose this opportunity. Frankly citizens and economic operators, after all they have suffered in these months, would live it as an unjustified act of vexation. Let us then give ourselves the opportunity to follow this path: everyone can make a profit. It is with this hope that I will announce the vote in favour of the Group Per le Autonomie (SVP-PATT, UV) to the deviation of the budget and to the Document of economy and finance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u92	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, we are very convinced by the change that this Government has made. There were three timidities that we feared in relation to the action of the past Government, that risked dragging the country into oblivion, and I must say that we have overcome them or are overcoming them. Of course, we must insist. The shyness was as follows: the one linked to the restart, the one linked to the failure to bet on the growth and the one on the vaccine plan. We have gone beyond them by reason and without brags and I believe it is thanks to this Government, especially the President-in-Office of the Council. For example, reading that scientist of Montanari define Dragons as Bolsonaro makes you shudder, because it's a huge nonsense. At last, however, we are going, irreversibly, towards normality; from now on it will be a crescendo and will no longer go back. But, Mr President, we will of course have at heart the management of the health emergency and we will not forget that the priority will still be to invest in health. The government has made a political decision, listening naturally to scientists, but without being replaced and de-responsible: the phase of the compression of rights (it was now) is significantly reduced and social, cultural and economic activities are re-launched. Without this immediate action we could have made all possible deviations, all possible economic measures, but we would not have been able to revive our economy. There are two essential actions to be taken together with economic measures and the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, to be discussed next week with the President-in-Office of the Council. We also have a duty to think about the unattended, those who do not still receive a salary or a pension at home. It is not democratic a country where someone can decide not to go to work because they do not feel safe and another, instead, cannot afford it because otherwise they do not earn and die of hunger. That is why the next supporting decree, President, cannot be a photocopy of what we are already examining in the Senate today. Strong measures will be needed to support the liquidity and capitalization of enterprises; for example, a further extension of the moratorium on loans will be needed. It is unthinkable that we can ask to honour our commitments punctually in an economic situation that is still stable. It will then be necessary to insist on a series of measures that accompany the restart: the exemption from Tari, COSAP, TOSAP. Bet on growth: it shows that it wants to do so this Government, with this DEF and with the new deviation. It was the shyness of the past Government on this issue that determined a breaking point some time ago and the end of that experience. The point of disagreement was that we imagined that that PNRR would not guarantee the necessary push to the country. It has increased to 2.3 percent of the Conte Government to 3.6 percent of the Dragon Government: 56 percent more with more public investment. And those who say nothing has changed their mind knowing they're lying. We were the ones who invoked what is now being done: to get out of debt with growth. The time for subsidies is over, President, sometimes inevitable, but they cannot represent the normality of a country. The country's debt is not irrelevant; today the debt is good - I have heard it from so many interventions - and must be aimed at growth, but we will have to be good at abandoning this perception when it is necessary. We have three recovery to make the most of: the European 210 billion and two domestic ones: the 181 billion saved by Italians during the pandemic, which only by creating a climate of confidence will we be able to mobilise, and more than 120 billion euros for the realization of public works blocked by bureaucracy. Of course, in order to invest these economic resources it will be necessary to intervene with a strong reformer action that will wipe out the bureaucracy and improve the efficiency of the public administration. Mr President, the pandemic has touched everyone, but it has not all struck in the same way. Ipsos has pointed out an alarming fact: the middle class, once the central body of our country, is being eroded; 8 percent of Italians have difficulties with food purchases; 16 percent have difficulties in paying their bills; 37 percent have difficulties in dealing with unexpected expenditure; 1 million jobs have been lost, especially among women and young people; the amount of young people discouraged has increased significantly. Mr President, I am optimistic about the recovery: there is and will be, but it will not be taken for granted. If not well managed, this phase is likely to exacerbate inequalities and create new ones. We must avoid that not all social groups, workers, businesses, territories from the South and internal areas are equipped to take this wind. The increase in GDP is a necessary but not sufficient condition; we will also have to work on the aspects of social organisation, family and school primarily, in order to allow the penalized to be able to participate in this revival. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u95	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, the Economic and Finance Document is always the main instrument for programming public finance, but the DEF 2020 represents - we can say - a single currency, because it outlines a macroeconomic framework conditioned by the effects of the pandemic emergency and because it considers two further measures, namely the decree-law with measures of support and recovery, linked to the proposal of budgetary deviation of 40 billion euros, and the final adoption of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. In addition to the resources of the DEF, the next generation EU programme and the so-called "fund" of complementary investments to finance the operations planned in the final version of the PNRR, but not covered by either the loans or the recovery grants. The DEF also covers certain risk scenarios, such as a limited effectiveness of vaccines compared to the variants of the Covid, with the hypothesis of consequent further measures limiting economic and social activities, as well as a risk potential - we add - that might be to miss the goal of vaccinating 80% of the population by autumn. The policy framework also provides for a progressive increase in GDP from the current year to 2024. This forecast is optimistic, not to say unfounded, if we consider, for example, the decline in GDP recorded in the first quarter of 2021 with less than 1.2%. In addition, the DEF projections on employment relapse are so modest that they are worrying. This reminds us only one thing: the recovery is built with reopenings. And we wonder, therefore, how the government thinks to reconcile the forecast of the progressive reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio and the increase of GDP with those economic slums - excuse the expression - established yesterday, with the maintenance at 22 o'clock of curfew and those fake reopenings, only for bars and restaurants that have outdoor spaces. In this way, economic agony is condemned, at least until 1 June, all those activities of the sector that do not have external spaces and are likely to permanently destroy part of our economic fabric. Let us return to the document: we know that the planned reductions in the debt-to-GDP ratio would only be credible in the face of sustained growth rates and long-term intervention programming, exactly what is not in the DEF. Sorry, but everything else is not a programming document but, I dare say, a gambling board. Indeed, GDP fell by 8.9% in 2020. This is a contraction of economic activity without historical precedents in times of peace, and this amplifies the dramatic contradiction, as noted by the DEF, of the growth of fiscal pressure in 2020 - I stress - that it was not to grow, but it had to remain stable. Colleagues, the truth, as everyone knows well out of here, is that consumption has fallen in the pandemic, income has fallen, but taxes have increased. That is the truth and so I do not understand how your forecasts of a decrease in the tax burden will come true. Anyway, happy birthday! The fall of the economy in 2020 is due to the restrictive measures, the contraction of private consumption, the loss of almost one million jobs and the rise of the new poverty, that have hit the Italian families: an absolute negative record. It is to the Italian families that one should think and instead they are excluded from the PNRR, while we note - let's say with controversy - that the government supports, within the DEF, that in order to increase the GDP we need a greater flow of immigrants, with an increase of a third. Brothers of Italy thinks instead that the Government of the best should put the Italians first, promote birth and demography and give more resources to families, businesses, artisans and workers. [[Applause]] The DEF, with the budgetary deviation proposed by the Government, appears to us, as the rapporteur of the minority Mr Calandrini said this morning, vague, timid, colorless, empty, at best a statement of good intentions. Are we saying it's a bet on the good debt? But betting time is over! What is needed is a solid growth, an organic vision and real reforms, which in the DEF are not there, whereas of those mentioned, such as fiscal reform and public administration, we know neither lines nor contents, as we do not know - and it is serious - the contents of the PNRR, which the Fratelli d'Italia Group had asked to attach to the DEF, just as we had asked for time to discuss it in Parliament. This time, however, will not be there: the plan will go directly to Brussels and no one knows the details, exactly as, in this DEF, there is no PNR. It comes to mind - I do not want to mention the three card game, because I have too much respect for the House - the metaphor of the Matryoskes, because this DEF refers to documents and measures, just like the Matryoskes, which are one inside the other. In reality, however, there are not, because it relies and refers to the deviation, the decree-law supports- bis, the recovery plan, all things missing the most important tables and the definitive plans for investments. That's why we said it was a bet. The Brothers of Italy Group has submitted its own motion for a resolution to the DEF and, for the reasons I have said, it will vote strongly against the majority. On the other hand, the Brothers of Italy Group tabled a motion for a resolution which I regret did not please the Government, because it contained and contained many proposals for good debt and concrete measures - perhaps that is why you did not want them - with aid to companies. Only because of a sense of responsibility, patriotic and national, will we vote in favour of the deviation. Let us remember that it was thanks to the vote in favour of the oppositions that the previous deviations were approved. One thing must be clear: we do not vote for the Government but for Italy and you do not have to ask for a vote in the dark without explaining how to spend this additional debt! Nor can we accept to unload further debts on children and grandchildren, continuing to spend badly or wasting on bonuses, tips and brands that do not favor the resumption of the nation, as happened with the previous Government that launched unproductive bonuses and micro-interventions among the most disparate for a total of 170 billion, the result of deviations spent in mille rivoli for which today no category can say that it has been really refreshed compared to the damages suffered. Coming to the conclusion, the sum of the deviations made so far is not only an extension of the public debt to respond to the pandemic crisis - we know - but, with the wrong management of the expenditure, it represents an excess of public debt, because even in debt it serves seriousness, distinguishing what is necessary from the voluptuous one. To understand us - don't get angry - scooters and bicycles are voluptuous. For this reason, Brothers of Italy continue to ask that all resources, every penny of the next deviation, go only to our productive fabric, that money should not be thrown away in state riffs like cashback! Rather, we are asking for compensation for the categories affected, for specific interventions on the integration fund, which must be paid monthly and not months late, and of course no one is talking about this here. In conclusion, we are in time of peace (the war is at the Covid but we are in time of peace), but the thought goes to the post-war reconstruction, when the government decided with the loan who would rebuild Italy. They said it would be the workers. Today there is a different society, but there is still an Italy to rebuild. What unfortunately cannot be seen - and I am sorry - in this vast, heterogeneous majority, composed, with incompatible ideas, is... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u96	Thank you, Senator, the rules apply to everyone. The ten minutes have expired, but you can put your statement to the record so that it can be published in an annex to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u99	MANCA (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, the Economic and Financial Document is undoubtedly the most significant, most important, act to verify the sustainability of public finance. It represents the heart of our country's economic and social planning, it is not a bureaucratic or technical act, it contains fundamental political choices for the future of Italy. The trend and programmatic data clearly measure the effects on growth and employment, as well as the actions necessary on the economic side to put at the centre a new development based on the environmental, social and financial conversion of our country. The responsibility of politics is to associate numbers with a vision, a project. My colleagues who spoke before me (Zanda, Collina, Misiani, Fedeli and others) recalled with great clarity and force the need for a new industrial project, an indispensable requirement to identify the new pillars of the new production chains, because only by identifying them can we connect training, research and universities to a new model of economic and social development. For us, ladies and gentlemen, it is unsustainable and wrong for Italy to oppose actions and projects to ensure social cohesion with expansionary measures to promote new economic growth: they are two sides of the same coin. Colleagues, in the social conflict, with increasing rates of poverty, in the spread of loneliness and in the widening of the divide of inequalities, there is no fertile ground for new opportunities and for the economic and social development of Italy. The pandemic has produced the largest recession since the post-war period to date (8.9 percentage points less GDP) and in Italy, already before the pandemic, unresolved structural problems slowed growth and widened inequalities. For the Democratic Party, guaranteeing the country a hope, not an illusion, and a new social and economic planning is the root of our commitment, in the Dragon Government and in the country. For us it is irresponsible to use and bend the many sufferings present in the country for the management of consent. For us it is essential to transform suffering, anger, loneliness into new opportunities to get out of the pandemic. [[Applause]] Young people, women and the Mezzogiorno must be given the utmost attention and the most effective structural projects must be carried out in order to return to growth. Let's say no to a front welfare, which to manage consent closes suffering and loneliness in a fence. These are for us the basis of a democracy; these are also the roots of the new Europeanism, which revises the Stability Pact and favours sustainable and compatible investments with the various environmental, ecological, digital and social transitions necessary to ensure a future for this country. The credibility of President Draghi, of the Government, of the Italian institutions is fundamental and decisive also in order to make our debt sustainable. You must not scratch with the useless curfew propaganda; there is the fate of Italy at stake. Senator Salvini, the Democratic Party takes no lessons from anyone. [[Applause.]] Above all, he does not accept criticism of hypocrisy. Do not confuse hypocrisy with responsibility. We want to reopen economic and social activities, we all want to do so; we want to do it safely so that we do not sink into a new pandemic wave, and above all we want to do it by choosing responsibility. The League also knows how to choose between responsibility, government and irresponsibility and opposition. [[Applause]] These are decisions that await you and await us together at the entrance of the Italians. Colleagues, there's no way out. We will have to be able to choose together the new face of Europe and we will have to be able to choose to separate ourselves from the wrong idea of a Europe that recentralizes borders and states. We have nothing to do with the Europe of Orban and its members and followers; that Europe does not guarantee the future. For these reasons, together with you, we must meet this new challenge and support Europe's new face to ensure a future for our young people. In front of us there is a very difficult challenge; suffering can cause disorder. In front of us there are also, however, new opportunities to plan the future of Italy. We can say that the DEF has two great opportunities within it, EUR 40 billion to help the sectors most affected by the pandemic crisis, through measures to promote the liquidity of companies. Industrial data confirm us strongly and clearly in the first quarter that there is a possible recovery for industry, construction, manufacturing, packaging, the industry that exports; but there is a violent crisis on services, tourism, trade. We must dedicate the most important commitment to them. [[Applause]] to ensure a reduction in consumption, fixed costs, restore measures that we had also introduced, starting with the tax credit on rentals for commercial and tourist properties. Above all - I address the benches of the Government - on tourism needs a strategic investment, on a fundamental supply chain to recover Gross Domestic Product. Italy is a natural platform. We must avoid dispersing our hotel network, our genetic heritage of hospitality, our ability to grow in the most important backs of Italian tourism. Support measures are not enough there; precise support for investment is needed and the state must take care of them because, around the corner, with the recovery of tourism there is a possible growth of GDP, employment, well-being. That is why we strongly say that reform is the most important challenge. The 230 billion of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan require a reformist season, require the ability to read these extraordinary changes: the reform of public administration, justice, competition, tax are fundamental initiatives to give speed, coherence, motor to the realization of such important projects, because only through a revival of investments can we guarantee new economic growth. The need is to give priority to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan projects with the highest employment coefficient. Look carefully, employment is the weakest, the most fragile point, it is seen in the trend and programmatic budget: until 2024 we will not recover employment rates before the pandemic crisis; therefore, we decide together: we need a Commission to carefully evaluate the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. In this Plan we need to identify the coefficients and priorities which we believe must relate to employment and the fight against youth and female unemployment. [[Applause]] Let's think of a country where the ambition to give birth to a child is normal again. Colleagues, we think of a country in which the State reduces distances with young people and offers them new opportunities for training, work and research. We think of a country that invests in education, that contrasts poverty not only with the income of citizenship, but also with a training income, central to the reforms of social shock absorbers. We demand a country in which to take up a profession, design a business again to be normal and simple and public administration, instead of hindering, favours projects for a new social economy. We want to design a country that knows, with the development of science, training, research, to produce the vaccines necessary to protect all of us from possible pandemic variants and new pandemics. We believe that the centrality of basic medicine must be restored for far too long to the margins of health reforms. We think of home care, the new face of the social and health system in the territory, able to form and promote synthesis also among the younger generations. One wins together with reforms and reformism can meet his people again. Let's make an effort here together to live up to it. For these reasons, the Democratic Party Group voted in favour of the resolution for the deviation and expressed an appreciation of the Economic and Financial Document. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u102	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I start from an inevitable political consideration: yesterday morning the League's Parent Company wanted to call all of us to responsibility, moreover with an improper reminder, because outside the perimeter of the choices and measures of the Government, as referred to the draft law Zan. Yesterday afternoon the League abstained on a government decree on a fundamental point in the life of this Executive: the government of the pandemic, putting in trouble the whole Government and the Ministers of the League themselves. The contradiction I think is obvious and resounding, but there is a political point: it is obvious to say that no one can imagine being in a majority and, depending on their own conveniences, polls, the irrepressible temptation to ride any protest, to do what they want, to launch ultimatums, to put the government in difficulty. We know this is the Dragon Government and not the Count Government. Maybe it's Salvini who doesn't know this isn't the Salvini government. [[Applause]] This gameplay scheme is childish, irresponsible and objectively unsustainable. Decide what part you want to do because this is not a comedy. We cannot play with the feelings, anger and difficulties of a country. Here we play the responsibility, which yesterday the League's Leader involuntarily recalled and which today sounds like a reminder to the League's own party. We vote in favour of the DEF and the deviation. The DEF is a brave enterprise and a bet that is based on two fundamental points: the defeat of the pandemic and the ability to achieve an increase in investment in 2022 by 20% compared to what we have done in the years behind us. It's a very hard task. It is therefore based on the recovery of the country, which must come out of practically twenty years of stagnation because Italy has not grown for twenty years. You bet with the Next generation EU and that's why we can't play. The problem is not the search for consensus; here we play, through courageous choices that cannot be postponed, the possibility of giving a future to the country. The key word for public administration reform is competences. It is necessary to give the municipalities, provinces and regions the skills necessary to realize those investments, finding the fastest and most transparent forms. It's an inevitable choice. Moreover, fiscal reform is needed, because the chaos in which the country's fiscal structure is evident to everyone and we must reduce the weight on work and businesses having the courage to face the great issue of the country: take all the income and find a fair and progressive tax. We must have a new industrial policy that has the ecological transition at the centre, as a lintel, and, on the basis of this, overcome the rain incentives for companies. It is appropriate to find the key to producing not only sustainable growth, but also to be able to give new work. The DEF data tells us that the issue of employment is the most critical and serious. We will propose that the government test itself to produce an extraordinary plan for good work, good employment and against precariousness. At the center there must be the South, women and young people. That's what we can trust the country with. We are faced with choices of great thickness and strategic value. What Italy needs is a new social compromise, based on the valorization of common goods: health and school are common goods on which we must make strategic investments able to give the country the future. Digitisation and the fight against inequalities: this is what a new social pact can be made, in which companies, intermediate forces, trade unions, the Italian Government and the Italian Republic find concrete goals to make that leap that we will not be able to make otherwise. We need to move forward in the construction of the new Europe. We have started, Europe has done important things; now we have to change the Stability Pact, without which there is no future. Draghi's proposal on Eurobonds for investment is important; it is important to restore a sense and direction to Europe's social quality. From this point of view, I hope that Europe will quickly take an initiative to overcome, even temporarily, the patents on vaccines; otherwise, we will not be able to govern the global pandemic. There are too many countries that fail to recover vaccines and the plan made for those countries is not working; a qualitative leap is needed and the ability to look ahead. Finally, I believe that there are three priorities on the deviation, which is fine, but the first is equal action, because we know that there are companies that have suffered damage and others that have had much greater damage. I am talking first of all about tourism, catering and gymnasiums. Those companies are quite right to ask us to make an equalization intervention, on fixed costs (bubbles and rents), because they are not the same and a homogeneous intervention on all types of enterprises is unfair. This is a fundamental priority. Finally, we must have the ability to intervene on the gaps that are still there regarding work, especially seasonal. For agriculture, tourism and cyclical workers, we must be able to give a quality response if we are to build hope. I have heard - and I conclude - that some colleagues say that the government's choice of reopenings is ideological. No, ladies and gentlemen: to govern this fight against the pandemic, we need two things, namely vaccines and traceability to govern the emergency. Today we are above the... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u105	FERRO (FIBP-UDC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not referring to the numbers of the DEF, because they have been dealt with extensively by my group's colleagues, Senators Perosino, Damiani and Saccone and Senators Modena and Gallone, who have drawn attention to them. I would rather take this opportunity... President. You don't photograph yourself in the courtroom. FERRO (FIBP-UDC). ...announcing the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group on this measure, to emphasize that we are going to approve a further debt of 40 billion in 2021 and an additional average debt of six billion annually for the period 2022-2033, to finance mostly public investments. Now - I am referring to what Senator Errani said - it is not up to me to call the responsibility for the statements; but we must all understand each other once and for all. We are in a majority and we have all joined without delay the appeal of the President of the Republic, who has called all parties to a sense of responsibility and not to put the flags; but we are not even in a cage where it is not allowed to speak. Therefore, in the political debate you accept that there may also be someone who says what he thinks, maybe not perfectly on the line. The important thing is to move on and look beyond. [[Applause]] From this point of view, we also recall the words of Minister Franco, who, announcing the provision of the DEF, said that this had a shock effect on the economy. We fully agree with this and we hope that the immediate support-a decree will respond to the reports that all the representation systems have made to us during the numerous hearings that have been held in the Budget Committee: to reduce fixed costs, to introduce a moratorium and to ask Europe for an extension of the temporary framework. If we fail to bring these results home, in fact, our speech is in vain. [[Applause]] This is not a matter of reopening, because doing it without restarting is of no use at all. The companies, especially the ones most affected, in the field of services, tourism and catering, are really exhausted. We have to get the resources immediately, which I hope we will go to decide immediately this evening, because - I repeat - vain is a reopening, if there is no restart. On this, we must allow the companies, the small ones, that maintain the supporting structure of our country to the economic level, to be ready to this phase of revival and rebound, that will certainly be there. We have had great confidence in President Draghi and, without offense to anyone, we think he is the best man who at this moment can well and worthily represent the interests of Italians, especially with regard to Europe. [[Applause]] We can say anything about Professor Draghi. He seems like a wise man, a prudent man. Surely, in his wisdom and prudence, he will also be able to resume in his hands some determinations that, at the present time, seem necessary. Let's not warm the air. Here, colleagues, the estate of our country is at great risk. The economic crisis, which has recalled the underlying employment and social crisis, requires us to look beyond the short term. We need to look at the medium to long period to get us out of these buckets. There has been talk of good debt. We do, too, but, in order to free up private energy and investment, we must put other things next to it. We need to put in good bureaucracy and good civil justice to attract investment. In fact, if three people are enough to cross over to any work considered strategic, we are not going anywhere. Other than Europe, we stop at the doorway. Another important issue is employment. The data are dramatic. Take the issue of seasonal work vouchers or agriculture into your hands, gentlemen of the government. Let us, in a certain sense, unblock everything that can promote an effective recovery and a revival of the services sector. I don't understand why we're late to release these energies, which are there. The Italian industrial production of this first quarter is better than many others at European level. Therefore, our entrepreneurs, despite this situation, this difficulty and the lack of liquidity, still confirm the validity of our system and our economic structure, especially in the most developed areas of the country. A deficit of 11.8% of GDP and a record debt of 160 percent of GDP cannot leave us indifferent, they are scary. We have seen, however, that in the last year Italians have resorted to one of their main characteristics, which is thrift. The average stocks in the current accounts of Italians have never been high. Clearly everything was blocked and closed, but this shows, once again, that if we release these energies, we put in the field resources and huge flows of money that promote development and recovery. A first conclusion is that, if there are no brakes, Italy resumes and produces; if there are no brakes and the various blocks and prohibitions are removed, even the services are resumed immediately and quickly. I repeat that it is necessary to keep businesses alive so that they can be restarted as soon as the constraints are removed. We need immediate financial support. All right, then, the budgetary deviation decided by the Government for business support and - as President Draghi says and I repeat - this is a good debt. I have already said before that the public debt is very high and, if there are no visions of unity and unity of intent, this risks being really dangerous for our country. However, it is a risk worth taking, given the important role and proximity of the European institution. It does not need to recall the individual measures, such as the moratorium on loans, the extension of time limits and vouchers, because they are all arguments that we know are at the attention of the Commission and we have great confidence in the people who are currently in the government. We must especially promote the sectors that have suffered more than others (I am thinking of services and tourism) and consider the great crisis suffered by all Italian cities of art, a true world heritage from the historical, architectural and cultural point of view. I'm not saying this to dramatize, but they can't take it anymore. Nevertheless, Mr President, we are convinced that caution is needed (such as that mentioned by President Draghi in yesterday's decree-law), but also optimism. We at Forza Italia are optimistic and have confidence in Italy and Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u108	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to announce my Group's vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled and, therefore, the Economic and Financial Document. That of voting in favour is a decision that will of course not surprise us, since we have decided to loyally support the action of this Government. Therefore, we regulate ourselves accordingly, laying down harshness and ideological battles, even if this of course does not mean renouncing our identity (I repeat that this has not been asked of us), nor surrendering to conformism and, therefore, giving up exercising the right of criticism. In fact, if we did so, we would make the whole of this majority inferior to the sum of its parts. In justifying my explanation of vote, I would like to move from my last speech in this House. On that occasion, it happened to me to point out that the request that was made chorally (but perhaps, in particular, to the political force in which I honour the military) to support the prospect of an increasingly integrated European Union and that would come to a single common budget capable of supporting countries in times of recession, if addressed specifically to us, was badly addressed. The problem with this ideal vision, in fact, was not and could not be our ideological foreclosure, that there is not and that, if there were, it would all be irrelevant in the great European plan, but, vice versa, the strenuous political foreclosure of Germany that has always opposed this project of solidarity. At this foreclosure, I think it's hard to get around. It is not a criticism, but a factual fact, what I expose. This should be clear now, but - in the future - it will become even more so when the SPD loses the forthcoming German elections, after which the PPE will not be well enough, but we do not enter into these sad events. It follows, however, one thing that concerns us and today's debate, namely that we should not rationally expect to be supported during periods of recession by others than by ourselves and the evaluation of the DEF, as in general that of the government's economic policy orientation, must be made in the light of this fact. Three months have passed since that intervention and further progress has been made (relevant, I would say). On 24 March 2021 we learned that: "European coordination must always be sought and strengthened, but if it does not work in these moments where time is precious, we must also find the answers ourselves." This is a wise, extremely timely and timely statement by the President-in-Office of the Council, which is also a response to something that this political force has always said. [[Applause]] The idea is that coordination must be a means and not an end, and the fact that we have a prime minister who finally states this idea, which is in itself a LaPalissian, is revolutionary. It is a revolutionary and liberal idea and a sign of common sense: the search for coordination must not absorb more resources than coordination can obtain or liberate them, otherwise an inefficiency is caused. There is clearly also a decreasing rate of return on political integration. Now, while pointing out that it is not a criticism of any of us, since we are all here and we are taking part in the debate because we agree to operate within a framework of given rules, I would like to say that the liturgy of the European Semester, which we are celebrating today with the DEF station, does not seem to me to be a particularly virtuous example. I do not want to bore you with quotations learned from scientific literature, but I personally continue to think that this rigid calendarization of programming documents and this European scrutiny, which in fact has failed in about a decade to increase macroeconomic convergence between Member States, is a clear example of coordination that absorbs or destroys resources, rather than freeing them. It is in my opinion still today, but of course it was even more so when this liturgy was the vehicle of those irrational political prescriptions that all once advocated and that today have remained orphans, that is those of austerity. Of course, however, loyalty and sense of the institutions also mean working within rules whose rationality may be doubtful, but it is easy for us to do so, because we see that the world is coming to meet us, to us who have always said what was in the macro-economic books, and are doing so with an impressive speed, I would say promising. Six days ago we learned that the sustainability of public debt no longer depends, as in the past, on the trend of interest rates that allow to serve the costs of collection, but on the growth prospects. This statement, again by the President of the Council, is interesting, although it all in all highlights aspects that until now, in the debate on the dynamics and sustainability of public debt, had been implied: for example, the role that the explosion of the cost of debt, which occurred in the early 1980s, had in determining the doubling of the debt-to-GDP ratio in about ten years. However, these are not huge innovations, from a conceptual point of view. I would like to quote: it is hoped that this article has shown that the debt burden is essentially the problem of the growth of national income. This quote comes from an article in 1944 by Evsej Domar, a Keynesian economist. So we have not made a great discovery, discovering that economic growth is fundamental in ensuring debt sustainability. The question, in this and in other cases, is why now: in 1944, which is also the year of the Bretton Woods Conference (another historical fact that is often evoked), was ending, as we know, a war. It is truly sad to see that, in order to surrender to the obvious, human beings first have to fight each other or, as in the present case, be overwhelmed by natural disasters that in the current language continue to compare to a war event: they are comparable to it not only and not so much in the tribute of human victims, to which our memory must go, but also in the economic consequences. Today's debt is postwar; more precisely, however, it was even before the pandemic crisis. Therefore, if, on the one hand, it is not strange that today the reasons for growth are rediscovered, as it was discovered in 1944, it is that it has been expected so far to affirm the need for growth and that, for many years, it has continued on the path of austerity. It must be said - and I say this with bitter and painful irony - that in this sense the Covid-19 has given a reasonable way of escape to the enemies of the obvious, that is to say to the friends of austerity, because it allows us to say that, since today everything is different, then we can finally do what really should have been done before, but let us forget the past and allow ourselves to express minimal criticism, even in the positive judgment that we give to the intervention of the Government; in fact - and I want it to remain in the acts - it seems to us that we do not understand a given that should also be evident. Do we remember the time when governments were reproached for having the automatic pilot and that the markets would have forced them to proceed anyway on the path of the reforms, which were then the cuts (the ones that served to deliver in private hands increasing pieces of social state and intermediary of the savings)? There is, however, a heterogenesis of the ends, a nemesis: today it is the European Central Bank that has the automatic pilot. It is always the markets that induce this regime and they are always, in some way, the creators of the autopilot, for the simple reason that, if the ECB stopped supporting them by buying public debt securities, they would collapse, which, in addition to being a problem for all of us, would also be for the ECB, which has the institutional task of ensuring financial stability. This mechanism should be understood and therefore you should (because you can) dare more. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u109	Senator Bagnai, you can deliver the written text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u112	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, representatives of the Government, the Economic and Financial Document is the main instrument of the cycle of economic planning and public finance and gives us a clear and precise picture of the interventions adopted in the past year, the terrible first year of the pandemic, and one of those that we will put on the field in 2021 and in the following years. The references and figures contained in the DEF are incontrovertible and would allow everyone to make an objective analysis of the economic policies of contrast to the crisis put in place by the Government Count II, throughout 2020, and by the Government Draghi, in the last two months. These are numbers, tables and data that are above the propaganda that some people do and continue to do on media and social media. I therefore appeal to everyone: let us talk about facts and try to give accurate and faithful information to the citizens. In the year 2020 the additional debt contracted by the state to deal with the economic and health emergency caused by the pandemic, using internal resources, therefore not from Europe, was 108 billion euros. Of these, almost half, 56 went to large and small enterprises, while 29.7 went to the labour sector (18 of which, however, were related to the earnings fund, which is also aid to enterprises). To the local authorities were 10,8; to health 8,2; to the whole chapter of family policies and social policies, which also includes emergency income, were 6,1; finally, to school 2 billion. Thus, in 2020, the Conte II Government allocated 64 billion out of 108 to businesses and economic operators, as evidence of how much attention there has been for the sector, beyond the talk and lies propalatate to full hands in the last few months. Add to all this that with the decree-law care Italy of March 2020 and with the subsequent decree-law liquidity we have opened the space to the moratorium of the mortgages for the enterprises, that still today invests a value of 158 billion. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, if possible, I would like to make my speech in a more peaceful situation. [[Call the president back.]] As I said, the moratorium on loans for companies still invests a value of 158 billion and has made possible for companies loans guaranteed by the Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, a total of 155 billion, and SACE for larger ones, a total of 23 billion. In summary, we are talking about very large numbers: 130 billion deviation in 2020 (the 108 of which I spoke before and the 22 of deviation partial coverage of the maneuver), plus the 32 billion of January of the current year, the 40 of the deviation we are going to vote on, plus the 70 billion fund to finance projects outside the PNRR (30 of which up to 2026), plus the 191.5 billion European recovery fund, plus the rest of the next generation EU funds. These are cold numbers, which may not say anything, but the overall total is important: by doing the calculation, from 2020 to 2026, thanks to the path that has been outlined by the Government Count II and physiologically taken up as such by the current Executive without any discontinuity (whatever you say), our country has been able and will be able to bring in resources for almost 450 billion euros. [[Applause]] I want to stress that even today the economic measures we are adopting follow the philosophy of intervention and the schemes adopted by the Count Government, to the point that the same 40 billion of the deviation that we are dealing with today and that constitute the financial basis of the decree-law support- bis will also serve to extend all the aforementioned measures for the liquidity put in place by the previous Executive and that has strengthened those innovative solutions that the current Government cannot help but prolong. Moreover, all these measures will serve to give breath to the economic operators brought to their knees by this crisis and this pandemic. If other measures are needed, we will take them without any problem, because no one will ever have to be left behind. Is everything okay? Absolutely not: there are still vast pockets of suffering caused by the economic effects of the pandemic, which, among other things, add to problems that our country already suffered. We still want and must do so and we in the Movimento 5 Stars are in this Government precisely to continue to put in place measures that protect the lives of citizens and economic activities, that enhance health and public school [[Applause]] , which trigger and fortify a model of development that puts the person at the centre, based on sustainability, respect for the environment, the circular economy and ecological transition. In this regard, we have fought so hard for the establishment of the new Ministry, that of the ecological transition, which we finally approved here in the Senate yesterday. We want a more just, more supportive, fairer, safer, more attractive and more stimulating country for those who want to do business. We are in the government, in a composite majority - and it is not simple - precisely to continue to design the country of the future and to defend the achievements of the last months. I heard yesterday, in the Budget Committee, a member of the opposition once again attack citizenship income and cashback. Certainly it takes courage to take these positions and to do so after a terrible year, such as that of the pandemic, and after the plastic demonstration of the extreme effectiveness of this measure, which allowed three million of our compatriots not to plunge into the abyss of despair, at a dramatic time such as that caused by the emergency health. Gentlemen detractors, if you do not want to believe us or the citizens, at least try to read the OECD documents, which in the report entitled "Going for growth" pointed out, at the same time, that the citizenship income was able to radically improve the social security network, introducing greater benefits for families, together with stricter conditions. [[Applause]] Among other things, the OECD has also praised the cut in the tax wedge we made with the previous Government and the cashless plan, which, as we know, increases digital payments. The cost of this measure, which was attacked earlier in the explanations of vote of some opposition senators, is reported. Just look at the data that, for example, come from different estimates, including private bodies - I quote those of the Ambrosetti Forum - according to which this is a measure that is paid on its own and in addition saves our country eight billion euros of cash management, obviously in the long run. Mr President, I am going back to earlier issues and their political significance. We have put in place almost EUR 400 billion of resources up to 2026, between social protection and investment, plus another EUR hundreds of billion of liquidity guarantees. It is a historical result, a change of paradigm and an opportunity for development that the country has been waiting for years and that must make the best use of, to create work and well-being. Yesterday, at the hearing, the Parliamentary Budget Office stressed that, thanks to these measures, in 2022 public investment in absolute value will finally return to the recorded level - think! - in 2009. At last we are putting behind us twelve years of austerity, letters from Brussels and Frankfurt, and Europe is asking for it. I therefore declare, jointly, the favorable vote of the Movimento Group 5 stars on the Document of Economy and Finance 2021 and on the deviation of the budget. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u114	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u115	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, we will see the money tomorrow too. The rain of money is a game of prestige, your money makes huge turns and then ends and in fact people have to go to the square. People are gonna tell you through his bills. A young couple: 31 euros of consumption and 184 euros of bill. A family: 213 euros of consumption and 474 of bills. A hairdresser: 106 euros of consumption and 351 bills. A closed pub: 264 euros energy and 892 bills. A commercial activity: 500 euros of natural gas and 1,076 of bills. A restaurateur: 4,800 euros of energy costs and 12,500 between various expenses, taxes, system charges and anything else. A gym: 34 euros of consumption and 235 of bills. This is where the problems of Italians are, which you do not see, because this happens in the real country. Instead, in your country of the masters, it happens that you had to withdraw the concessions to Benetton and instead we participate, with the money of the Italians, at an auction with Abertis. Where is the left, the one that with Hope, D'Alema and Bersani governs with Draghi and Giorgetti, who today did not want to hear that the public society Invitalia (Arcuri) is associate of ArcelorMittal, a master who dismisses a worker guilty of publishing a post that commented favorably a TV fiction with Sabrina Ferilli? You are partners and lackeys of masters! Why doesn't the Ministry of Economics and Finance, a 64 percent member of Monte dei Paschi di Siena (MPS), ask for responsibility towards former administrators Profumo and Viola? Dragons fear the ghosts of his past? Profumo is still there, CEO of Leonardo, an employee of the State listed on the Stock Exchange. Do you know that MPS (always 64 percent of MEF) had to set aside 400 million for ongoing billionaire causes? Of course you do, Dragons knows! You're ruling for the system, in the system. Your deviations, your money make huge turns and then end up in the pockets of the usual. Let's vote no.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u117	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u118	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, the Alternative will vote against the DEF because it provides for an approach to the overly strict medium-term objective. Nevertheless, out of responsibility and trying to do something useful for the country, we have tabled an amendment which, by receiving some comments made by the 6th Commission to which I belong, proposes to implement a digital structure to certify tax credits, so basically create a tax currency, and engage the Government in the appropriate forums to open the discussion for the revision of tax rules that support the Stability and Growth Pact. This is to prevent the new application of the Stability Pact leading to the adoption of debt-return rules in ways and times that are not shared by all States that can preclude Italian economic growth. We therefore ask you to vote on this amendment. However, despite this improvement, the DEF approach for us is not correct, not least because it does not allow us to evaluate it through the PNRR. On the other hand, we shall be voting in favour of the budget deviation, because it is right to give oxygen to businesses, workers and citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u120	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u121	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I support the amendment put forward by Senator Crucioli, and I would like to say that I voted against the DEF and I voted in favour of the budgetary deviation, because sterilizing debt is not unthinkable, just as neither the development model nor the EU treaties are inevitable. We supported the President of the European Parliament, Mr Sassoli, when he made a proposal which Italy did not accept and which some European economists signed with a very important petition, but which the President of the European Central Bank rejected, considering it unthinkable, because it would have been a violation of the European Treaty, as if this were untouchable. The subject is sensitive, of an economic nature (and I am not an economist), but above all a political one; of politics, however, each of us has a different vision, whereas it is not so for legal issues, on which I would like to dwell, regarding the charter of Sant'Agata dei Goti "Declaration on usury and international debt" of 1997, which was signed by an authoritative pool of scholars from various countries. While recognizing the sacred principle for which debts must be honored, they bring out in the declaration four fundamental principles of justice in times not suspicious, because outside the danger and situation Covid: first, the priority of the right to life; the universal destination of the goods of the earth; the fundamental requirement of equity, which does not allow to assume only profit as the ultimate criterion; and the fact that the needs of the weakest must always be taken into account first and foremost. Moving on from these assumptions, the Declaration lists some principles of law recognized by the civil nations, which constitute the source of the international order, as required by Article 38, paragraph 1, of the Statute of the International Court of Justice of the Hague. Well, with regard to the issue of debt contracted as a result of the serious pandemic in progress, it is necessary to apply and respect, as well as the principle of the right to life, at least two other principles: that of the self-determination of peoples and that of favor debtors. On the self-determination of peoples, any contract cannot be signed if one of the parties interferes with the weakness of the other. Therefore, the writing of the treaties is not... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u122	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions to the Report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. Motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I would warn you that an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly is required for this resolution. The vote on the motions for resolutions will therefore take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, De Petris, Malpezzi, Pharaoh and Unterberger, to the Report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The motion for a resolution No 101 is therefore precluded. We move on to motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2) to the Economic and Financial Document, accepted by the Government, on which an amendment has been tabled, the text of which is distributed, which I invite the presenters to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u123	Mr President, I would like to point out that I have done nothing but bring two comments in the form of an amendment, voted in favour of by the parliamentary majority present in the Finance Committee, which were aimed - like the amendment in question - at implementing a digital infrastructure that guarantees the certification of tax credits also as means of payment of goods and services (essentially introduces the road to tax currency). The other added paragraph commits the Government to act in the appropriate forums to address the discussion of a revision of the tax rules that support the Stability and Growth Pact, in order to avoid the risk that the adoption of rules of return from debt - in ways and times not shared by all states - could generate procyclical effects to the detriment of the prospects of economic growth. This second paragraph is particularly relevant; it has been reflected in several statements that go in this direction by all the members of the Senate who have spoken before. I therefore ask everyone to vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u124	I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u125	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u126	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u127	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2 (text 2).1, tabled by Senator Crucioli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senators Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, Malpezzi, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, accepted by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u130	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, there is a story related to the name of the famous tenor Enrico Caruso who in these hours is strongly indignant of the souls in the world of Italian lyrics and not only, because Caruso has been and remains tenor among the greatest, loved in Italy and sanctified abroad. This year marks the first centenary of his death and for the organization of the initiatives in memory was established by the Ministry of Culture a national committee for the celebrations. It is a pity that the lack of transparency in the appointment of members of this committee is damaging to the value of memory and adds to the mockery of alarming and unpunished ignorance. It is a pure political operation, the one orchestrated by Franceschini, who uses at his own consumption the figure of an artist to whom we should instead respect and care for his legacy. First of all, in the list of members of the committee there is a "theory" of names due, but it is obvious and disconcerting the absence of the witnesses of Caruso, that is, of those who by preparation or direct experience really lived the tenor. Wasn't Caruso born in Naples? Didn't he die in Naples? Isn't it related to the town of Piedimonte Matese, where his family lived, and to Sorrento, where he stayed before he died and where, in the halls of a restaurant, the original museum that collects relics, original records, caricatures exists? At the Teatro San Carlo in Naples, a city that preserves its remains, as well as at the Metropolitan in New York, which saw on stage its portentous performances? So why, colleagues, is there no representative of these Carusian worlds on the list, a living part of the singer's human and professional history? The Minister or sin of musical illiteracy, ignoring who Caruso is, or political opportunism, placing on strategic and profitable armchairs in terms of visibility characters of his own court, in what instead is not a monarchy, because Enrico Caruso is a democratically universal heritage. In both cases, the minister is guilty of a serious crime against the culture of our country, indeed Caruso, called "the voice of the two worlds," would deserve an international committee, involving those who love and know him. The great-grandson Federico wrote an open letter to those responsible to complain about this. On the other hand, the director of the online newspaper "Tuscany Today" asked how the consultation of national committees and national editions could assign 90,000 euros to the Committee for the celebrations of Caruso on 23 February 2021 if that still did not exist. In short, paraphrasing Lucio Dalla Caruso's famous song, to the Ministry of Culture certain cliential practices that are not logical and not transparent have become a chain by now that dissolves blood and veins, but for indignation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u133	ANGRISANI (Mixed). Mr President, four gunshots, desperate screams and then silence. When you think you have power over each other and you lose all you have to do is think about power over life and death. is, unfortunately, the usual expression of man's will of power over woman. My speech is aimed at bringing to the attention of this House yet another case of violence against a woman which has taken place in recent days and which unfortunately ended with a more tragic epilogue. They are two of my fellow citizens of Sarno, in the province of Salerno, but resident in Marino, in the province of Rome. The husband, a carabiniere, took his own life after shooting his wife, Annamaria several times. She was a well-known and well-known teacher in the community of Sarno, where the news shocked the citizens united in the pain for what happened. Annamaria was very committed to social affairs and I would also like to mention her civic and political commitment to defending women's rights. The journalistic reconstructions speak of a relationship that, unfortunately, has resulted in the most dramatic outcome, connotationd, by the husband, from jealousy, stalking and continuous controls on the cell phone. Such behavior is frequent in cases of violence against women and often anticipating fatal consequences. That is why the greatest attention must be paid to so-called spy crimes. The institutions are continually working to try to counter the occurrence of incidents such as that of which Annamaria has been the victim. A report that we have recently approved in the Commission on Femicide shows that the spread of violence against women represents a real massacre in the years 2008-2018 with well over 1,600 killings. Today we are forced to update the data on feminicide: during this year, due to the pandemic, there have been numerous increases. We are faced with a phenomenon that is no longer an occasional emergency, nor a private fact, but a social and chronic tragedy that is now structural, which is overwhelming our civil society. Without a real cultural transformation that starts from schools and that allows to overcome stereotypes promoting the spread of attitudes and languages respectful of identity and gender difference, this battle cannot be won. The real challenge is to promote a profound cultural transformation that invests society starting from the basics (school and family) and that can involve every aspect of relational life. To teach young generations equal rights and respect for gender identity is an indispensable objective to divert the path... ( [[The microphone is switched off automatically).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u136	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, the banking system has already been undergoing a profound transformation for a few decades in the process of concentration that is being pursued, driven mainly by the introduction of the great innovations of the digital age, by the need for greater competitiveness with the large international groups and hence the need for a sharp cut in expenditure. All of this has the inexorable effect of reducing counters and, as a result, it will inevitably be the job of thousands of employees, on which a plan of reintegration must urgently be drawn up. On 29 December last BPM announced the closure of 300 branches during the first half of 2021. Among these we find also those branches that in the small places represent an important reference for the permanence of the already few existing activities. Moreover, for these small settlements, we must move towards an inexorable depopulation, to which national and local politics have the task and the duty to provide tangible and urgent solutions. Thus in Accadia, a small centre of the Dauni Mountains in the province of Foggia, which, like many who follow the same fate, deserves great attention and development for its history and its landscape beauties, but which now sees its only bank with which the municipality has always entertained treasury relations. This not only means turning off the remaining hopes of repopulation of these areas little by little, but also represents a blow to the permanence of those who, loving their land, resist and hope for a better future. A social role that will also be lacking for those customers of greater fragility, such as the elderly, who would have considerable inconvenience to go to the neighbouring municipalities. I would like to appeal to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance to work for these small municipalities to guarantee them at least one branch as a service to citizenship, which has already been severely penalized and to which we must all make every effort, aware of the great value they represent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u139	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to express, on my behalf, the Group of which I am honoured to be a member of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione and - I wish you well - of the whole House, full indignation at the very serious insinuations that the Secretary for Justice, Mr Macina, has made against Giulia Bongiorno and Matteo Salvini. [[Applause]] , to which all our solidarity goes, as very correct people, both in life and in work. We are here, Mr President, calling for a high act of responsibility, a high sense of the institutions, to get Italy out of this difficulty and this pandemic. But unfortunately we find ourselves the Undersecretary, in perfect grill style, to pull out once again the story of the plot and the history of the insinuations. [[Applause]] This is absolutely not understandable and above all it is not respectful of President Mattarella and President Draghi. All the more so, this attack becomes completely incomprehensible when we remember that the problem is at home and its name is Beppe Grillo. [[Applause]] I would have expected a woman, as well as Undersecretary for Justice, to say a few words about Beppe Grillo, who in a scandalous video was able to delight a girl and her family, offend all women and trample centuries of legal civilization. [[Applause]] All this was not enough to distract the Secretary of State, Macina, for justice. Among other things, I would add, President, that Beppe Grillo, in the excellent style that distinguishes him, that of a clown, succeeds in being a forkman to the necessity, when he does not have anything to do with it, and guarantees when he has something to do with it. Enough with this culture of suspicion, enough with this culture that lacks respect for our history and our tradition. [[Applause]] There is only one way in which undersecretary Macina can remedy this unacceptable behavior: to resign immediately from that unworthy role. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u142	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am speaking on the same subject as Senator Pepe, who has just spoken. It is objectively disconcerting to see what has happened today, with the release of that interview by Mr Macina, a Member of Parliament and undersecretary for justice. It is a shame that a Undersecretary for Justice takes advantage of his role in bringing into play those issues, especially women, which is the worst and most disconcerting thing: especially women! [[Applause]] I have to say, however, that the confusion increases if we bear in mind that he is also a lawyer, who should know the mechanism of criminal proceedings. Those words obviously leave those who know those mechanisms disappointed and know perfectly well that the behavior of the judiciary is not called into question only for an act of whining towards the chief. The boss made a mistake. It would have been more logical to apologize without being there to add anything. Instead, he wanted to request support and Secretary Macina obviously hastened to give that help that had been requested. [[Comments.]] He asked for it publicly, it's also in a newspaper today. [[Comments.]] Yes, indeed, we read. Let's talk, it's better. It is disconcerting this attitude, as well as the hastily liquidating an attack that has been made on the institutions, on the judiciary. That judiciary that in so many circumstances wanted to defend, wanted in some way to praise, when it suits as it was well said. It is a double-track attitude: when it suits you, you become a justiceist; when it suits you, you become a guarantor in defense of someone, introducing arguments that have nothing to do with it. And above all, we attack the people who have been victims of these attacks and who have been put to the doom of the media (which I also spoke about in the intervention of the other day here in the Chamber). They attack those people who, on the other hand, have always demanded that the trials not take place in Parliament. Those same people who had been attacked, in such an inappropriate way, or at any rate their relatives, then, at the time of reckoning, when the trials took place in the parliamentary places, were obviously exonerated with full formula. It is a shame that you take advantage of your roles. Undersecretary Macina reported, in an absolutely useless way, those themes, simply to attack and to defend themselves, but it was a defense objectively and completely.. . [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u145	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I have not asked for the floor on the subject raised, but I cannot remain silent on it. That a Secretary for Justice uses his role, being a lawyer and therefore having to know the matter, to attack a senator of the Republic, as well as a lawyer, making very serious insinuations on his correctness as a lawyer, is truly an intolerable thing and cannot be accepted, even by Minister Cartabia himself. [[Applause]] Resignation was requested. It would certainly be the best solution, but at least there should be a statement of execution and correction. It is not possible and it is not acceptable. The Ministry of Justice must ensure the proper functioning of justice, not make insinuations against the lawyer who is wrong to defend a girl who is supposed to have been raped. [[Applause]] Then the process will have to determine whether the fact is true or not, but the process must have guarantees. There must be a lawyer and his role must be absolutely respected. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u148	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I change the subject and address you and this House to inform you that yet another lager residence has been discovered in Palermo, where employees insulted and kicked the disabled people entrusted to their care. There have been arrests, thanks to the work of the Carabinieri of the station of Palermo Brancaccio, whom I thank heartily. Obviously, everything emerged thanks to the footage of the cameras, which recorded systematic ill-treatment and constant harassment, pushes, screams and insults against these patients suffering from spastic paralysis. A real hell, Mr. President. In the video you can see an operator taking the head of a patient and banging it violently against a wall; another patient dragged on the floor, pulled by the hair; an operator pulling a wheelchair at a disabled person. Colleagues, I invite you to watch these videos to realize the horror of what I am telling you, because really words cannot explain the anger, suffering and pain that you feel in seeing these images. Mr President, through you I address my colleagues on all sides and say: does Parliament really want to continue to ignore this? Since 2009, for three successive legislation, including this one, I have presented a bill for the introduction of cameras in kindergartens and facilities that accommodate elderly and disabled people. [[Applause]] The proposal has always come a step away from approval, and then sand and fall into oblivion. I ask myself and ask you: why? What are we waiting for? And don't talk to me about protecting privacy, because in the face of such inhuman and violent behavior towards weak and defenceless subjects there is no privacy that it holds. I'm sorry, but I have to say it: to keep doing nothing means to remain indifferent to the pain of these people or - worse - to become accomplices and conniving of those who inflict that pain. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u149	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-319.ana.u150	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 27 April, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.32 p.m.
