ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 24 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u4	I say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I would like to inform you that the President of the Republic, by his own decree adopted today on my proposal, has accepted the resignations resigned by sen. Simona Flavia MALPEZZI from the post of Undersecretary of State to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. F.to Mario Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u5	I communicate that following the passage on 29 March 2021 of Senators Merlo and Cario to the Mixed Group, the requirement of numerical consistency provided for in Article 14, paragraph 4, of the Regulation, for the establishment of the European Parliamentary Group-MAIE-Democratic Centre, is diminished. The Europeanist-MAIE-Democratic Centre Group is therefore declared dissolved, pursuant to Rule 14 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Brusio]] Senator Balboni, thank you. There is a little too much movement in the House today.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u6	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 8 April. The arguments already foreseen for the current week remain confirmed with a new breakdown of the times of discussion of the decree-law on the ability to exercise the profession of lawyer. Next week the Assembly will meet from 10 am on Wednesday 7 April for the possible follow-up of the decree-law on the ability to exercise the profession of lawyer, if not concluded tomorrow, and for the discussion of the decree-law on the postponement of the elections 2021. The timing of the discussion of the latter measure shall be divided by ten minutes for each group under general discussion and ten minutes for explanation of vote. The calendar also includes, starting at 3 p.m. on Wednesday 7 and on the morning of Thursday 8 April, the discussion of the motion on cashback, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators, and two motions that will be indicated by the majority groups (adding not yet received). Thursday 8 April, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place with the presence of the Ministers for Economic Development, the ecological transition and for regional affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u7	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 8 April: [[Tuesday, March 30, h 16,30 - Draft law n. 1892 and connected - Delegation to the Government for the single and universal cheque (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) Wednesday, March 31 h. 9,30-19,30 - Drawing of law n. 2133 - Decree-Law n. 31, Enabling the exercise of the profession of lawyer (final vote before 14 April) (expires on 12 May) (where concluded by the Commission) - Report of the Commissions reunited 5th and 14th on the Proposal for a National Recovery and Resilience Plan (from 16h on Wednesday 31 March) Thursday 1st April h. 9,30]] [[Wednesday, April 7, h. 10 - Possible follow-up of bill No. 2133 - Decree-Law No. 31, Enabling the practice of the profession of lawyer (final vote by April 14) (decades on May 12) - Drawing of law No. 2120 - Decree-Law No. 25, Differential consultations 2021 (final vote by April 7) (decades on May 7) - Motion No. 317, Cyrians and others, on cashback - Motions indicated by majority groups - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 8, 15) Thursday 8 " h. 9,30]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law n. 1892 and related (Delegation to the Government for the universal single cheque) [[Rapporteurs 15' Government 15' Groups 3 hours, including explanations of vote, of which: M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 26' Mixed 26' PD 22' FdI 21' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law No 2133 (Decree-Law No 31, Enabling the practice of the profession of lawyer) [[Rapporteurs 15' Government 15' Groups 3 hours, including explanations of vote, of which: M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 26' Mixed 26' PD 22' FdI 21' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the 5th and 14th Commission Report on the Proposal for a National Recovery and Resilience Plan (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 30' Groups 6 hours and 30 minutes, of which: M5S 1 h 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h 3' FIBP-UDC 56' Mixed 53' PD 47' FdI 40' IV-PSI 35' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 29' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2120 (Decree-Law No 25, delegation of elections 2021) (3 hours and 10 minutes) [[Rapporteurs 10' Government 10' Votes 10' The allocation of time for each group is 10 minutes in general discussion and 10 minutes in explanation of vote.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1892, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 472. The rapporteur, Senator Laus, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. [[Brusio]] Colleagues, I understand that we are in pre-pastoral times, but the buzz is really excessive. I could bear it during the Presidency's communications, but Senator Laus may well not allow it, so please listen, if you stay in the Chamber, or move to the buvette. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your silence. The bill today under examination of the Senate Assembly has a delegation discipline for the reorganization, simplification and strengthening of measures in support of dependent children through the establishment of the single and universal cheque. This is a historical reform that began to be discussed in the last parliamentary term and which was carried out with force and conviction in this legislature, first of all with the bill signed by Senator Nannicini and Mr Del Rio and Mr Lepri, presented at the same time on 4 June 2018 to the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies and which is now finally about to be approved. First of all, I would like to say that I am very proud, as rapporteur for the measure, that it has been unanimously approved by the Commission for public and private work, social security. This is of great satisfaction to Parliament. The importance and innovative scope of the bill, of parliamentary initiative, have been recognized by all the Groups, united by the need and the will to give a strong and determined response to what is one of the problems and, at the same time, the greatest resource we have, that is, the support of our children. The draft law under consideration represents a fundamental reform and a great opportunity to finally introduce a universalist and progressive measure, to protect and support the birth, parenthood and family, with particular attention to large families and disabled people. It is a universalistic measure, which concerns all families, without any exclusion. The families already receiving resources will finally be joined by those who, up to now, were excluded from all types of benefits or were receiving them in a residual way, i.e. the self-employed, the self-employed, the disabled and the unemployed. This means that the recipients of the allowance will be the families as such, no longer the individuals, for the type of work they carry out and for the type of contract they have. In this regard, I would like to recall what Article 35 of the Constitution states: The Republic protects work in all its forms and applications. It therefore protects work as such and not the employment contract. This measure represents the beginning of a new path, a change of approach in the management of family policies, I dare say a different and European cultural approach, which finally recognizes the centrality of children. Only adequate family policies can reverse the dramatic trend, which sees Italy among countries with a very low birth rate. Christmas means the development of the country and not only from the economic point of view, the maintenance of the pension system and growth. Family policies implemented so far have failed, due to their fragmentation and lack of continuity, to restore confidence to our young people and children. Italy has long been in what has been called a demographic winter, which has unfortunately been aggravated by this terrible pandemic. The numbers are merciless: according to the Istat report on demographic dynamics during the Covid-19 pandemic, deaths in 2020 amount to 746.146, while births only to 404.104, the lowest level ever recorded by the Unity of Italy. There is no more time to lose, inequalities must be reduced, families and women must be adequately supported, which, let us not forget, have paid, in terms of loss of work, the most expensive price during this pandemic and which, even today, are often forced to choose between the desire for motherhood and work. Again, the numbers are pitiful: according to Istat, out of 101,000 workers who lost their jobs in December, 99,000 are women. So we need to give confidence and support to families, young people, our daughters and our children, and we can do this thanks to a just universal measure and - let me tell you - really simple. Another revolutionary aspect of this measure is its simplicity: it is a measure that will replace many other measures that have crossed over in recent years, giving rise to a real regulatory stratification. It is in order to overcome this stratification that the bill in question aims at a profound reorganization and rationalization of measures in support of children. There is something else that I would like to say before moving on to the content of this measure, and I am still kindly asking for the attention of my colleagues and colleagues. In these days many articles in various newspapers have posed a legitimate concern, namely that the measure we are about to introduce may penalise a part of those who already benefit from tax deductions and allowances to the household, with particular reference to families with children over twenty-one years of age, cohabitants and those who have high assets. According to a simulation by Istat, 29.7% of households would be negative in terms of the balance between the introduction of the new measure and the overcoming of existing ones. In order to remedy this situation, the Commission has adopted an agenda to ensure that the general redefinition of measures in favour of families, as provided for in the delegation framework under consideration, does not have any effect on the reduction of support measures for families with children. We are confident that the Government will work in this direction, with the necessary resources being found, to fully implement the reform that we are about to approve. With regard to the content of the measure, the single universal allowance constitutes, on the basis of the universalist principle, an economic benefit progressively attributed to all households with dependent children, within the framework of the resources available, in order to promote the birth, to support parenthood and to promote employment, particularly for women. The step-by-step criterion is linked to the need to achieve the corresponding financial resources, partly resulting from the gradual overrun or abolition of existing child support measures. With regard to the financial profile, it should be noted that the 2021 budget law has in the meantime made a significant allocation of resources for the implementation of the institution, providing an increase in its allocation of 2.566 million for 2021 and equal, from 2022, to an amount of between 5,000 and 6,000 million per year. This increase, which is in addition to the resources already allocated by the other rules in force, is also a fundamental element for the implementation of the commitments proposed on the agenda accepted by the Government during the examination by the 11th Commission in the Senate, which I have already mentioned. According to the principles and guiding criteria of general delegation, access to the allowance under consideration is ensured for each dependent child with criteria of universality and progressiveness. The amount of the allowance is modulated on the basis of the economic condition of the household, as identified by the indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE) and its components, taking into account the age of dependent children. The allowance is not considered for the application and calculation of social benefits, care and other benefits and social benefits in favour of children with disabilities. Grants for the inclusion or rapprochement of persons with disabilities in employment activities shall not be considered for the purpose of accessing the allowance for the purpose of calculating the allowance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Laus. One minute. Mr Laus, rapporteur. The allowance is fully compatible with the institution of citizenship income and citizenship pension. It is granted in the form of a tax credit, i.e. a monthly payment of a sum in cash. The allowance is shared equally among parents, or, in their absence, is allocated to those who exercise parental responsibility. A body open to the participation of the most representative family associations is expected to be set up in order to monitor implementation and verify the impact under consideration. The allowance shall be recognised on a monthly basis for each dependent underage child and for each unborn child from the seventh month of pregnancy. It is also expected that the amount of the allowance will be increased for children after the second. The allowance is recognised - for an amount lower than that for minors - for each dependent adult child until the 21st year of age, with the possibility of paying the amount... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u10	Senator Laus, synthesize and deliver the written text of your speech, because we are well beyond the time allowed to remain in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u11	Mr Laus, rapporteur. I'll come to the conclusion, ma'am. The measures in force which are affected by the principle of gradual overrun or abolition are: the allowance for families with... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u12	The microphone turns off automatically, I'll give you some more time, but please, for the next time, calculate the time at your disposal. Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u13	Mr Laus, rapporteur. Thank you, President. I was listing the measures, which are also: the birth or adoption premium, the Birth Support Fund, the deductions from the Irpef for dependent children. I would like to conclude by saying that we hope that the government will adopt the legislative decrees as soon as possible because there is no more time to waste if we want to give...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u14	We are aware of that, thank you, Senator, but there really is no more time.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before this House has a very long history behind it, but I would like to hope that it also has a broad and deep horizon ahead of it. It is the result of a very tiring work, a result strongly desired by the Democratic Party that shows something very important. When people's and families' lives are not treated with the tools of ideology and prejudice, equality can really be built. Families, I said families in the plural: let me say that I am also very satisfied with the linguistic formulation of this text because, as you know, I have long believed that even the language is substance, it is not form. This text has a correct linguistic formulation: it is inclusive and open to the plurality of the forms of family life present in our country. And I am happy that, thanks also to the efforts of many and many colleagues in the House, and also thanks to my speech on the rapporteur in the House, the initial reference to the associations of "family protection" as regards the composition of the monitoring body has been corrected. Today, more correctly, as the rapporteur, Mr Laus, said, we are talking about "more representative family associations": this is a good sign. The measure implements Article 3 of the Constitution, which we too often forget; it implements its most difficult paragraph to achieve, but also the most beautiful, the second one, which states that it is the task of the Republic to remove any obstacles that prevent the free development of the human person and full participation in political, economic and social life. Therefore, equal social dignity, in the concreteness of differences, relationships and life experiences. Without effective guarantees of equality there is no real freedom of choice, including the choice to become parents and to form a family. This must not only concern the birthday, which rightly concerns us and which is not resolved by rhetoric or ideology, but by concrete policies of equality. I am talking above all about gender equality, which is only filled with content if women and men are allowed to choose and act on a level playing field. Of course, the single cheque is not enough, and I want to say this forcefully; the road is still very long, we have to arrive at perfectly equal leave, at equal pay, at the contrast without district to any discrimination, which still affects women in the world of work simply because of being women and maybe having a family. But also to equality between children. We are talking, according to estimates, of almost 8 million families, of about 28 million people, including 12 million children, of which about 75,000 with disabilities. According to the most recent report by Save the Children, 11.4% of them live in poverty; economic poverty, all too often an antechamber of educational, emotional and relational poverty and deep loneliness, further aggravated by the pandemic. For these girls and children equality means above all freedom from these poverty. A measure, such as the universal allowance, but proportionate to income, makes public support for these painful existential situations tangible. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by stressing another aspect of equality between children which I would like to focus on. I am talking about the girls and children of the rainbow families; the allowance does not exclude such families, and this shows, once again, that when we talk about the concreteness of life and of the rainbow families we share with all the other families the needs, the problems and the expectations. I would like to stress one point, on which I end by appealing to future work; legally only the recognised parent will have access to the benefit of the single allowance, even if the non-recognized parent is part of the ISEE. This demonstrates the urgency of recognition. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would ask that the remaining part of the speech be annexed to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u16	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u17	She is registered to speak Senator Alessandrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government must certainly note that this measure is intended to help families with children in practice. We can also agree with the special attention given to families with disabled children who will receive a larger allowance as it should be. Adopting rules that facilitate disabled people and their families, as well as being constitutionally correct, is one of the points on which the League has always insisted and will continue to do so also in the Ministry established ad hoc. Another point to highlight is the far from negligible simplification resulting from the establishment of the single allowance. We welcome the simplification-oriented legal provisions which I hope will open up a new trend, in which citizens no longer have to undergo brainy interpretations and unacceptable bureaucratic delays. I hope that the implementing decrees will make it easier for families to benefit. What I would like to stress, however, is that, again on this occasion, the League has shown that it wants to protect all families with children, none excluded, and in the implementing framework it will ensure that there are no families who receive less than those currently received. Never before do families feel the need for clarity and reassurance; in fact, no law would be truly fair if they forgot someone with worsening conditions for our families. [[Applause]] We as a Group have made this clear and we are here to remember this constantly and to prevent this from happening. In compliance with this principle, for which the League has spent, it is essential that the successive decrees that will be adopted in implementation are improving for Italian families so that Italians can return to trust in those who respect them, represents them and that they can above all return to see a future and hope in it. Confidence in the future is closely linked to the possibility of working. The climate of precariousness that characterizes the world of work has certainly not facilitated the construction of new families and if in Italy for years there is a collapse of birth, it is because the Italians would like to have the certainty, even economic, of being able to keep their children without welfare, but with the dignity of their own work. The right to work, however, has unfortunately remained on paper and never, as in this period, is becoming increasingly distant from implementation with activities that sadly close their doors forever. A serious policy for increasing the birth rate will necessarily have to be supported by an adequate labour policy, without which it would be destined to shipwreck miserably. Istat's latest report on the demographic crisis in Italy highlighted, among the main reasons for the birthday, the climate of uncertainty for the future. So, it is our precise duty to turn that uncertainty into trust. As you know, in 2020 there was a new historical minimum of births from the Unity of Italy: just 404,000, almost 16,000 less than in 2019. By 31 December 2020 the resident population was nearly 384,000 fewer than at the beginning of the year, as if a city as big as Florence had disappeared. The report promoted by the Department for Family Policies states that 58 percent of Italians aged 18 to 34 have decided to postpone or abandon procreation projects. Although the effects of the pandemic have also affected the birth rate in the rest of Europe, the Italian figure is still more alarming. The collapse of the birth rate has been accompanied by a peak of deaths since the Second World War. Surely the pandemic has helped to expand and amplify a trend of population decline that was already underway. There is therefore a great and pressing need for immediate action that profoundly affects current demographic dynamics. We need to reverse this trend and we need to do it now. The draft law under discussion is certainly a first step, but they will still have to follow further incisive action to boost employment. As a woman and mother, I think having children is one of the inalienable and most beautiful rights. Children and new generations are the future we need to invest in. A nation that does not protect the birth by all means at its disposal is destined for decadence and unfortunately so far little has been done in this regard. We hope to include measures for families in the future in a broader context of reform, but now is the time to give priority to the immediate interests of Italian families. These interests are and will always be the first place for our parliamentary group, because there is no more time and now it is time to act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u19	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is only a few days ago that Hans Kluge, who is responsible for the World Health Organisation for Europe, stated what other data and statistics had already shown us. At European level, women are the most affected by the pandemic. In Italy, the majority are women (68 percent, according to the data of the General Accounting Office of the State) who work in the National Health System with permanent contracts; they are mainly women who play the role of caretaker to parents or elderly relatives; still, they are mainly women who provide care as caregivers to the elderly. They are women and often mothers in a country, such as Italy, which according to data released by Eurostat a week ago is a taillight in the ranking of demographic decline in Europe. Looking at the birth rate data in our country from 2010 to 2019, we notice a real collapse (from 1.46 to 1.27 children per woman). Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, the severe penalisation of women in our country is further aggravated by the pandemic and the measure we are going to vote on, aimed at simplifying and strengthening measures to support dependent children, is particularly appropriate. The universal single cheque is not only fair, but absolutely necessary. I also hope that this measure will be guaranteed in the coming years precisely because it is clear that it is a guarantee and a small important contribution that the State gives to a young couple who today think of building a family and to the many Italian families in difficulty. For these reasons, I preannounce on behalf of my Group the vote in favour and wish the Government good work in the exercise of the delegation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many reasons to welcome the approach of the measure to this House. The first is that it is a draft law of parliamentary initiative and perhaps this could mark a positive change, with the transition from the dictatorship of the DPCM to the democracy of the bill of parliamentary initiative. And that would already be an important point for us, but there are many aspects of this law that we approve and some shadows that I will leave for the end. The first point we appreciate of the measure is the fact that the universal single allowance is recognised to the child before it is even born. I think that no one escapes what it means that the child, from the seventh month of mother's pregnancy onward, and therefore before her birth, is granted the right to the universal allowance. It is still not what Carlo Casini would have liked so much, the recognition of the legal status of the embryo, i.e. the rights of the unborn child, but it is important and positive that this Government recognizes the value of human life before it even comes to light. A second point equally important is the modularity of the provision, the fact that the allowance is recognized to the first child, and then implemented at the birth of the second or third child: let us consider this an indirect recognition of the value of the large families; a value to the family that wants to have children and opens up to life, and this means opening up to hope and optimism, even at difficult times such as those we are now going through. A third point that is interesting to me is that the child who is born the bearer of a difficulty or a handicap - or we could say disability or fragility, if we wanted to use a broader term - the cheque is recognized in a larger form, because it is heavier the workload of work and care that belongs to the mother; load that very often touches in depth the relationship between mother and child and undoubtedly leads the mother to look to her dreams, to her own perspectives and also to her professional ambitions with a greater sense of prudence, perhaps at some time with a sense of limit. And so you recognize it as an added value. And that child, in its complexity, is still an extra value in a family. A fourth point that seems very important to us is that when that child becomes of age, takes up university studies or undergoes an internship, or probably begins to face a low paid career path, the allowance passes directly to him. And this marks a passage of age, a growth, an emancipation, a recognition of autonomy. You pass, that is, from a family that welcomes you, and in some way protects you before you are born, to a family that, when you undertake university studies or start working, creates an opportunity for you to go, so that you can move. These are important points that define this not only as a law whose characteristic element is the economic system, but rather as a law that wants to lead to an important reflection on the social system, on the family system in which we are living. The first of the nodal points, in some way critical of the provision, could even be considered a positive aspect, if it did not conceal some snare in itself. And it is the fact that in reality this law is a sort of reorganization of all the measures attributed to a family so far: there is the possibility that many families - almost a million have been calculated, according to some simulations - can even perceive a little less than they received on other fronts, in a split and shattered way, but in a real way. It is a point on which we must reason, because we do not want families to receive less, but in an organic and universal way - as has been said - they receive more, because otherwise disappointment could really be something very distressing to have to deal with. And instead we want the value of the law to emerge more and more in its structural dimension, exactly for what I said at the beginning: precisely because this law recognizes the rights of unborn children; because it accompanies large families and in some way recognizes to the handicapped child the need to have something more, it is not possible that, having the reorder of the different measures, some families may find themselves losing an advantage. We need, therefore, to reflect again on this law exactly on two tracks and - at this point yes - one of the tracks is economic: that the financing of the law is much more substantial. Did we make the law? We have the courage to make the rights of families, the rights of people, enforceable. We don't just do a maquillage operation. Let us not fill our mouths with the idea of a single universal allowance which, this time yes positively, reaches everyone, not only to the children of employees, but also to the children of parents who carry out self-employment and so on. Let's make sure the advantage is there, that it's tangible and concrete. And let all families enjoy the very meaning of the law, as well as the economic and material contribution it entails. This is what we ask of the government and we entrust, in a special way, to the Minister of the family. Mrs. Minister, you got something important. We ask you, however, to achieve it in substance and not only in the affirmation of principle. The substance is all we've said. But the substance is also the quantum that can reach families at a dramatic time like what they are going through now, with a support really given to the family and then to the people as they grow up. Families must feel that, not only with this Government, but from it onward, they are really the pivot around which all the social cohesion of our country revolves. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u22	Please, Senator, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u23	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). I shall be very brief, Mr President, and thank you very much for your attention. If we can do so and guard all this in the spirit, but also in the economic structure, increasing the resources available to families, in particular at this moment of great impoverishment, in which the country is growing zero, if we can give this positive boost, the whole country will benefit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u24	Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u25	Mr President, 400,000 children were born in 2020, 16,000 fewer than in 2019. The first months of 2021 are not comforting. It is called denatality: an ethical and social problem that - in my opinion - must be studied and analyzed by governments in order to bring the birth back to the golden times in which Italy was a great nation, as it was in the sixties. Replacing a people with wild and invasive immigration is not the solution: then perhaps the lords of NGOs, between champagne and social centers, want it. [[Applause]] No, my lords: we must make active policies to protect the Italian family, and I repeat the Italian family. The League supported the single cheque as a first step, because our goal is the family quotient within a tax reform with at the center flat tax, to help families and businesses, work first of all. The League spokesmen have contributed without being obstructed by becero: we have withdrawn our amendments to ensure that this bill is passed quickly in order to help families. I repeat: this is a first step and we have put all our efforts into it. I would like to thank Senator Pillon, who will speak during the explanation of vote, who, with an agenda, has protected large families, whom we must protect because we must return to the system of large families to give that social glue called "family," to be placed at the centre of national good and institutional interests. Of course, I also thank the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family and the Minister for Disability Erika Stefani, because they have given priority to people who suffer from disability or have children with disabilities. Helping the most fragile people is our civil society right and duty. In the next few days we will also continue the discussion on caregivers, because families must be helped. It is a duty, I repeat; I am repeating this word many times. It is the government's duty to protect families. And I repeat this once again, because someone wants to break down the family system: the family is the social glue and must not be touched, but protected. I do not want to enter into any other divisive discussions, but this is the time for concrete aid. We do not need ideological and instrumental battles, such as the ius soli and the bill of honorable Zan: today they do not serve and I think they will never serve, because Italy is a nation that has in itself the culture of the family. We are experiencing some important attacks from the media, television and cultural point of view, in which certain aspects of the traditional biological family are constantly being criticized. We cannot tolerate this. We must return to a cultural conversion so that the family is the centre of common interest. I have some notes that I would like to repeat: the objective is tax reform with flat tax. Often and willingly we trivialize the concept of family and children, but we must return to see a prolific nation and for this we will help the boys, from the womb of the mother from the seventh month until twenty-one years old, to enter the world of work, for a welfare that I define not of retroguard but of avant-garde, because we must make sure that the boys and girls are able with their forces to enter the world of work. For this purpose we will support them. This is a first step. We are not satisfied, and I am not hiding it, but in the meantime we are going through the economic crisis and the pandemic and we are going back to life as soon as possible. I hope that we will return to the only refreshment useful for all activities, i.e. the reopening of all Italian companies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u26	Senator Carbone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the measure we are about to adopt is the result of a very long work, born from a proposal from Italy Viva and already recognized by the previous Government, which will become State law thanks to the sensitivity of Prime Minister Draghi, very attentive to the issue of the new generations and of social and family policies. It has been a long work, a real revolutionary reform that the country has been waiting for years and that comes at a time when it is extremely necessary to support Italian families and help them plan the restart after the dramatic crisis caused by the pandemic. The universal single cheque is a large piece of the largest and most general family act that the Government has approved and that Parliament will also discuss at some time. As is well known, it provides financial resources from the seventh month to the eighteen years of age; it extends to the twenty-one years of age, when there are important activities in terms of education and training, and it has a specific formulation also in terms of financial indications for disabled people and children who have disabilities problems. At the heart of the action of the measure, therefore, there is finally the family. Italy alive and this Government have finally put - I repeat, Minister, finally - the family at the center not only of the action of the Executive, but also of the development of the demographic policies of our country. From 1945 to today, in fact, the births have halved. The Istat in the latest data shows resounding figures: little more than 400,000 births a year, about 700,000, instead, the deceased. In this natural balance so negative it is evident that, without urgent interventions, for our country there are only difficult prospects of development and growth on the horizon. Thanks to the cheque we can reverse the fearful phenomenon of denatality and get on track with the most equipped countries in the matter of family policies, finally proposing us as a hospitable land for young people, young couples and families who want to continue to believe and invest in the future. Italy is a country that has built, over the years, many tax advantages. There are about 500 that are recorded, but of these very few have been dedicated or are dedicated to the family. The check is unique, because it reorganizes a jungle of measures, bonuses, stratified deductions over time. It is therefore a simple cheque, because it simplifies the lives of families, allowing them to receive a measure of planning and stability over time. It is an activating measure - as they say - because it stimulates the family to project into the future and to make courageous choices. Family policies bear the best fruit when they have a stability character, because they give autonomy in the economic design of life. Thanks to the single allowance each month a family will know that they can count on a fixed amount up to the twenty-one years of age of each child. We are facing a real revolution for our country. I believe that since July - and I address you directly, my dear Minister Bonetti - in order to streamline and facilitate even more the work of our families, we will have to be able to allow them to request the activation of the universal cheque, as well as the INPS and the CAF, also through the patrons, who are currently excluded and - let me say - at this particular moment have often been free of charge replaced by the work of the INPS. It is an investment in social development that does not make households dependent on state aid, like other unnecessary welfare measures. We must all be happy with the result together. Today it must be noted that a bill passes from theory to the Official Journal in just sixteen months and all this thanks also to the fundamental and important contribution of my party. Italy Viva proves to be once again a great reformist movement, which does not propose commercial measures and without vision. Instead, it is a healthy place to present concrete and achievable proposals for the future of our country. We have at heart the Italy of tomorrow; an Italy that today, thanks to the decisive contribution of Minister Elena Bonetti, to which all our gratitude goes for the constant and effective work carried out, and thanks to the pragmatic vision of Matteo Renzi, makes remarkable and important progress towards civilization. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u28	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a proposal which has been presented as a revolutionary proposal. In my view, this is certainly an important initiative, but not a structural intervention. When a reform is structural - as can be seen from the same term - it intervenes from the base. This measure on the single allowance, which refers to children, and therefore children or young people who are up to twenty-one years of age, actually intervenes in favour of certain categories of family. I shall now come to the point, explaining why this is not a structural reform. For example, for households with an indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE) of less than 30,000 euros, for each minor child we will not see a cheque of 250 euros - as today various newspapers have communicated - but 161 euros per month per minor child and 97 euros per child of twenty-one years. We're talking about 80% of families, and so eight out of ten. Instead, in the case of an ISEE over 52,000 euros, we will have a cheque for less than 67 euros and a child's allowance between the age and up to 21 years of 40 euros. The interesting news is that they are taken into consideration and attention is focused especially on the self-employed and the incapacient. If, however, we believe that this manoeuvre, which does not favour 1.35 million households with EUR 381 less per year, is structural, then for whom will it be advantageous? It will only be so for a certain category of households: some employees - for example - will suffer losses, in this case EUR 381 per year. This calculation shall be made taking into account a fixed basis of departure and a second tranche referring to the ISEE. This, however, is a system of calculation that should evaluate the wealth of families, but in truth - as it is set out today - it is not the currency absolutely because it refers to the income gross of Irpef deductions and of the municipal and regional additionals. Therefore, when, for example, the text states that the reference is the ISEE or its components, it means the calculation of assets or income, and in this case we are already in a questionable situation, because today income is calculated gross rather than net of deductions. Moreover, the calculation coefficient for establishing the ISEE thresholds is also absolutely unfair. Therefore, the question we ask ourselves is what will be the wealth that will go into the pockets of the Italians. What do families give up, taking into account the fact that the provision only simplifies? They simply pool funds to create a single one and distribute quotas to self-employed and incompetent workers. Families give up the household allowance with at least three minor children, the birth grant, the birth premium, the tax deductions provided for dependent children. In addition, where one or more legislative decrees give rise to new or increased burdens which are not offset within their own territory, they shall be adopted only after or at the time of the entry into force of the legislative measures which allocate the necessary financial resources. As you can see, Brothers of Italy has also demonstrated to the House that they support this manoeuvre, but it is clear that the funds already allocated are insufficient. I hope that some of the improvements that will be put to the vote in this House today will be accepted and a wider table of comparisons will be opened with regard to the calculation of dependent children. Senator Cirinna just mentioned the rainbow families. Referring to young people, children and children, the position is clear. We must then take into account the children of all families and, above all, those who will be penalized, that is, the large families from the three children up. Minister, from now on I would like to propose that we reflect on an intervention that sees women first in order to raise the birth rate. His is the Ministry of Equal Opportunities. Therefore, we extend parental leave: the reduction of 70% of the salary for women with children from zero to six months does not encourage them to give up work because, in fact, this can be achieved. It must be raised, therefore, at least to three years. Let's invest in this. I come to another proposal. In order not to dwell on the child, of which it may seem that, sometimes, an instrumental use is made - but certainly not so - why not also think of the maternity allowance for women who choose to follow their children by clearly giving up on another? Each choice involves a renunciation. We need to broaden the spectrum and we need to put families in a position to choose the most suitable intervention for their own internal needs. On the one hand, I congratulate you and, on the other hand, I conclude by stressing one last critical point about the method rather than the merit. Someone must have known about it. In carrying out its work on the Senate Act 1892, the Commission's work did not take into account the opinion expressed by the Finance and Treasury Committee. The opinion indicated - also by the undersigned - the need to refer to a change in the ISEE. Although it is not its binding opinion - only the opinions of the 1st and 5th Commission - the Finance and Treasury Commission, due to its nature, it should have gone into the substance of the measure because it refers to the index which should assess the wealth of households. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u30	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the proposal to support families and to combat denatality through the universal single allowance is approved precisely in these days when the further dramatic signal on the demographic front of the accentuation of the decline in the birth rate aggravated by the health crisis is coming. The result is a number of births at historical minima (404,000), which makes the record gap even wider compared to deaths (less 342,000). Since 2008 this negative trend has never stopped, indeed has accelerated its race and today we have fallen to the lowest level of births. We have entered a phase of continuous reduction in the number of potential mothers and central working groups. This is why it is important that the long journey started in 2014 with the proposal of law Lepri to the Senate, re-presented to the Chamber during this legislature at the first signing of Del Rio and approved in July 2020. Now, to the Senate, this bill has been combined with a similar proposal presented by Senator Nannicini: a path that, thanks also to the contribution of Minister Bonetti and in synergy with the parliamentary groups that have expressed themselves, has reached the result of presenting a bill-delegacy to simplify and strengthen the support measures for dependent children. It is obviously a question of the true meaning of the future word, which must be put at the heart of public debate and government action. Professor Rosina says well when he speaks of this as the great matter removed from our country. Yet we are well aware of the economic and social costs of an increasingly less sustainable relationship between the elderly and young generations. In a picture aggravated by the enormous public debt accumulated over the years, it is clear the need to put now, because tomorrow might be too late, a brake on this demographic drama that risks compromising the future of our country. This means promoting actions to make the imbalances between the elderly and the active population less unsustainable in the long term. If you do not act in this direction, it will be impossible to promote growth and well-being, make the welfare system sustainable and allow everyone the possibility to carry out life projects, individual paths, desires and expectations. In the coming months our measures and choices will be decisive and the implementing decrees that we will have to issue soon and well will be decisive. We will have to take advantage of the possibilities offered by the Next Generation EU and the support measures for the promotion of projects of which the single grant is the first part. In other words, we need to keep together three important elements: investment in the training and professional opportunities of the new generations, family policies and an investment in women. It is therefore necessary to put the school back at the centre - we have worrying data on school dispersal, which sees us in the top places in Europe, and a percentage of graduates among the lowest in Europe - and to put the policies for families at the centre, promoting parental sharing of educational care roles. Therefore, the universal single allowance is an important step which must be integrated with a structural strengthening of childcare services and with the organisation of care work for fragile and unself-sufficient people who almost always fall on women's shoulders. The issue of women's employment must be put back at the centre, with concrete support for working mothers, extended parental leave for fathers, tax relief for women's work which must not always be the first to be sacrificed. Two incomes allow a family to look at the construction of a future project with greater serenity. It is no coincidence that the countries where you have more children are today also those with higher female employment rates. It is called a deposit of potential GDP: it is that share of extra growth that Italy could express and that instead is abandoned in a sort of national mine of resources never really exploited. We have arrived at a paradoxical crossroads of low participation and low fertility. We should build conditions so that we are not afraid of losing our commitment to bringing a new life into the world. Thus one can try to overcome the demographic crisis, as other countries have done, such as Sweden and France, succeeding in the reversal of the trend. Today we are giving a positive signal, which families need, which goes in the direction of putting order among the current forms of support that the system recognises to families and of matching this support to all taxpayers, self-employed or employees. I would also like to stress the principle of an increase from the third child and that, between 30% and 50% more, depending on the severity, for children with disabilities. Today, therefore, we take an important step, but not yet sufficient: if we want to stem the demographic and economic decline of the country, we need a great investment in human capital, women and young people. We have an opportunity to do so, and if we can't catch it, maybe there will be no more. It's time to design our future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Jarusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fear that the draft law we are debating is yet another act of goodwill, which, unfortunately - as has been pointed out by previous speakers - could have very different effects than those we wanted. Simply examine the funds provided for the measures in question: the budget law for 2021 has allocated EUR 3 billion and EUR 6 billion is foreseen for 2022, but we know that these figures are not enough. Not only is this money not enough, but families need investment in kindergartens, in services that can reconcile family and work, in support for women and young people. Above all, we need a social, economic and cultural context in which the birth of a child is not a burden. Then we see the raw analysis of Istat on the reform of the single allowance, which - according to the data disseminated by this institution - would lead to an increase in income for 68% of families - this is a good thing - including those of the self-employed, who do not receive the allowances today, and for those who do not reach the threshold of capacity for tax deductions. There is a "but": 2.4 percent of parents would not change anything and about 30 percent of families would - according to Istat - have a deterioration in the level of aid. In particular, they would be harmed - as my colleagues have already pointed out - families with children over twenty-one dependent on their parents, who would be excluded from the single allowance and from the current deductions. Particularly large families would then be penalised, as the ISEE equivalence scale assigns the fourth child of values to lower proportions. In fact, couples would also be penalised, because today, for the calculation of the household allowance, they can calculate the applicant's only income, while switching to the ISEE should consider the income of both parents. In these days we read in the press of the roboating claims by some who try to head the measure on the single cheque. We are used to these commercials, which we would like to call them commercials from Formula 1, given what has happened in recent days. However, we are still far from the concept of universal allowance, that is, of a cheque for all and of equal amount. What is known at this time is that the cheque will swing between EUR 50 and EUR 200 per child, but the ISEE will determine both the actual audience and the various gradations of the cheque. It would be a mockery if there were no adequate economic cover at this very time and for families this maneuver turned out to be only a mirage or, worse, a damage. There are other families, however, ladies and gentlemen, who are in the ambasce at this time. They are the ones waiting for the return of their loved ones for twenty, twenty-two or even twenty-five years and that risk - we risk it too - to have a nice gift after the Easter holidays, with the pronunciation of the Constitutional Court that would allow the return home, in the mafia families, of dangerous and irreducible murderers bosses, those that families have torn them apart. Now, on a day like this, when we talk so much about helping families, we must also remember those that were massacred by the mafioso massacrers: the Nencioni family, burned alive in their sleep, in Florence; the Asta family, with poor mother Barbara and her twins, who remained two shadows of blood in a wall of Trapani for the attack on Judge Palermo. Well, the danger that irreducible mobsters can return home without serving their sentences in the government perimeter has not been heard except that of the League. Where's the rest of the majority? Do we have to think that the majority approve of the position of the State's Attorney before the Constitutional Court? Do you approve of surrendering arms to the claims of the mobsters? Is this the way to honor families? Give the mob back the most dangerous bosses in our history? Well, if we want to honor the families, the millions of good families of this country, we make our voice heard against this reproach. We're defending life imprisonment for mobsters. We do not, as cowardly we use to do in this country, a terrible discharge of the barrel, dumping on the judiciary the burden of assessing the liberation of such mafias, to say that politics has nothing to do with it and that it will be the magistrates who free them. No: those who do not intervene, those who keep silent and those who do not put the means to prevent this will not be able to say a tomorrow "the magistrates will have been." It will be the consciences of the citizens who will understand who armed the feathers of those who will free the mobsters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u34	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u35	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating and voting on today provides, in principle, for objectives that are absolutely acceptable, which fall within the most complete family act programme, namely to support the family, to stimulate the birth rate, to promote employment, mainly of women, to take a step forward in aligning with European measures and to move towards fiscal simplification. Let us remember that in Italy social protection expenditure for the family and children function is lower than in all other countries of the European Union, with the exception of Malta and the Netherlands, and is equal to about 1% of GDP in 2018, compared to a European average of 2.2. Minister, the measure under consideration presents some critical issues, which put at risk the achievement of all the objectives set. The simplification is certainly achieved, because the allowance is unique, absorbing all the existing measures intended for the family and for the birth, but will it really be universal? And, above all, will it keep the same benefits for everyone? Many simulations carried out by several studies, starting with the Parliamentary Budget Office, show that the resources made available are not enough to provide all the same current benefits. Indeed, the approximately 12.5 billion currently committed for the measures in force and those provided by the budget law - I remember: 3 billion for 2021 and up to 6 billion for 2022 and from 2023 - are objectively few, Minister, so much so that with the enlargement of the audience of the recipients, including also the self-employed and unemployed, 1.3 million families would receive - again from elaborate estimates - about 380 euros less per year compared to what they perceive today. Minister, we need more resources, but we also need to produce and correct and revise paragraph 4 of Article 2, because beneficiaries and the universal single allowance will also be foreign families who have been or are resident in Italy for at least two years. Having been resident, Minister, is not good, because the jersey expands in an impressive way. [[Applause]] and we do not have an effective determination of the audience to which these resources will be allocated. Minister, we are about to adopt a bill of delegation. It is now up to you, the Government, to establish the indicators of economic equivalence ISEE in order to determine the bands for access to the cheque and ensure maximum coverage. However, the capital indicators, now more than ever, are no longer in line with the real economic situation of households. We are experiencing a period of serious crisis, the pandemic has struck everyone indistinguishably and perhaps we must remember that even being owners of a house, of a good, does not always correspond to a spending capacity [[Applause]] ; indeed, Minister, it becomes an additional burden. Therefore, the parameters of access to the cheque must be very carefully modulated and at the same time, however, we must establish very accurate preventive checks, in order to prevent those distortions that have occurred and that continue to occur with the income of citizenship. [[Applause.]] The fundamental point, which must be clear to all, is that the single universal allowance is to be understood as support for birth and family, not income. [[Applause]] The births in Italy are constantly decreasing: only in 2019 were 16,000 fewer than in the previous year and the situation worsens with the bad prospects for the future generated by this pandemic. According to some estimates, if the current trends were to remain at the end of this century, the Italian population would amount to 30 million, so it would be even halved: really devastating projections. It is therefore necessary to provide for shock action to promote birth, the effects of which will not necessarily be felt or seen in the immediate, but in the medium and long term. On its own, the universal allowance will not be effective. The most important aspect of the pandemic was the great difficulty, mainly for women, to reconcile life and work, having to devote himself to the care of children in DAD and the elderly. The single universal allowance, as has been pointed out, is in fact part of a series of measures aimed at supporting the family and allowing women to enter the world of work, while putting them into the world of children. On its own, it would remain a sterile measure, in fact, a mere support for income. We must think at the same time of encouraging childcare; where there is no school, Minister, there is no work, especially for a woman. There are still too many municipalities with no kindergartens and nursery schools; the 13,147 social and educational services for children cover only 24 percent of the demand. Now we have a great opportunity, called the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR); by this important means we can intervene by implementing, increasing childcare and offering facilities to working women, whether they are dependent or independent. We cannot stop behind party ideologies. In Italy there is a good educational offer given by peer schools to be taken into account [[Applause]] In addition to the public government, not only, Minister, for an economy of resources and management, but for a different educational choice, that the family - since we are talking about family values - has the right and the duty to choose for their children. The State must be able to guarantee this choice through public-private agreements and the introduction of standard student costs. Therefore, in order for the universal single allowance to make sense, it must be part of a broader logic of services for the family, where finally there are also interventions for recognition and assistance to family caregivers, large families and separate and difficult parents. Encouraging private welfare is a viable way; the State must double the benefits to those who support, for example, corporate welfare; in fact, it cannot expect the private to fully accept what the State should guarantee to its citizens. We are far away from countries like Germany, where access to benefits for children is universal, with the primary objective of stimulating the birth rate. Of course, this measure is a step forward, which we hope will also facilitate a consequent and indispensable cultural change, but we need more resources, a State closer to families and services that complement the cheque. Minister, the real wealth of a country is children and a country without children has no future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u36	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u37	Mr President, Mr Bonetti, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, draft laws are often reflected in the Constitution. Article 29 states that the Republic recognises the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage. Article 30 reads as follows: It is the duty and right of parents to maintain, educate and educate their children, even if they are born out of marriage. Article 31 provides that the Republic shall, by means of economic measures and other provisions, facilitate the training of the family and the performance of the relevant tasks, with particular regard to large families. It protects motherhood, childhood and youth, encouraging the institutions necessary for this purpose. Well, the bill n. 1892 is drawn in these articles, which for the League have always been the foundation of the political program. [[Applause]] We have always demanded the categorical will to respect and defend the role of the family and, even more decisively, of large families or children with disabilities. We supported in fact, first with Minister Fontana, then with Locatelli and now with Minister Erika Stefani [[Applause]] , that the disabilities, with a specific Ministry, were at the center of the government program. The State must be concretely present in the difficult path of family growth and above all objective encouragement, when a family finds itself obstacles that seem insurmountable, even more if there are also physical or intellectual impediments. Let this bill come along and with it a tangible sign, a single cheque, i.e. encompassing and without disruption of all the various bonuses or previous family benefits; universal, that is, addressed to all residents and not, former residents, although obviously in a way proportional to their family economy. There will therefore be clearly a variable and fixed quota and will be perceived from the seventh month of pregnancy until the 21st year of age. It is the beginning of a path in which the government has allocated 6 billion more than the 15, to reach about 21. We recognize ourselves, as League, in this way of thinking and acting, simple and fast; a fixed cheque, that is guarantee and certainty to design a little 'future. Of course, the State must ensure adequate facilities, from schools to hospitals, from institutions to public transport, to urbanisation. A state that accompanies our children, especially if with disabilities. A state that will have to think and design, dear Minister, a post school for children with disabilities, because children will become adults and there will be no parents to take care of them. This is our next mission. The data, then, do not help (there are 700,000 deaths, compared to about 400,000 births), but we cannot accept or believe that the population can increase primarily through the new entrances in Italy or with facilities aimed at the children of other nations. It is Italy that must return to being a happy and fruitful mother. The single universal allowance is a first investment for the future of our children, an economic figure that will never suffice, but still remains a value and a will of the State towards a family. The bill refers to this sacred and inviolable union of a mother and a father: it is not a simple document name, but the first words that our children pronounce. Therefore, please, dear Minister, let us not complicate what nature has spontaneously given us. Don't touch us anymore, Mom and Dad! [[Applause]] With the approval of the bill in question we hope that the single and universal cheque is for everyone a small economic support to be able to grow up, cure, have their children study and even buy them a toy, because there is no greater thanks than to hear, even with the eyes, from those who can not speak, "thank you mom" and "thank you dad". [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u38	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before entering into the substance of the draft law on the single and universal cheque, I would like to highlight the demographic, social and economic context in which it develops. I mention just a few examples, which can help us to better understand the dramatic and worrying situation we are experiencing. From 2008 to 2018 our country has reached the record of the natural balance, that is the record of the difference between the number of births and that of the dead, in negative of 191,000 units. Over the same decade, we have seen a steady reduction in births, which has fallen by almost 130,000 units, and an increase in deaths, due to an inexorable and progressive ageing of the population. It is right and most painful to point out that the pandemic-related health emergency has only contributed to the growing demographic decline that has been taking place for some time. As of January 1, 2019, residents in Italy were calculated at around 60 million and are unfortunately 400,000 less than on January 1, 2015. This data, according to Istat, sees a new minimum historical record from the unity of Italy to today, since only in 1918 our country, narrowed in the grip of the First World War and the Spanish influence, had reached such a threshold. At a time when the word "uncertainty" seems to be the constant paradigm with which we are getting used to living together, the experience of parenthood seems to be a further source of concern and for this reason postponed, if not even avoided. The average number of children per woman estimated by Istat as early as 2018 was only 1.29, with average age at the time of birth of the first child equal to about thirty-one years. Even more discouraging is the picture that emerges from data on the employment rate of women, which is 70% of unemployment during the Covid period, as women are forced to make choices between profession, career and children. For us at Movimento 5 Stars, the theme of support for families has always been a priority in fact and not only in words, given the need for a change that can no longer be postponed and a great reform of the family welfare, with the aim of organizing the various bonuses that exist today in a single and more substantial cheque to be used to meet all the expenses related to the growth and education of children. It is a real turning point in the policies for the family of this country, a great concrete help. I am sure that young couples and young people in this country do not lack the courage, but the tranquility to hope for a safe and stable future and it is this vision that we have the task of rebuilding with normative interventions that do not conflict with each other, but coordinate and complete each other. This measure provides, on the basis of the universalist principle, for an economic benefit progressively attributed to all families with dependent children, within the resources available, in order to promote the birth, to support parenthood and to promote employment, particularly for women. The principles to be followed by the single allowance, such as the criterion of progressiveness, are identified and modulated on the economic condition of the household. This benefit starts from the seventh month of pregnancy, i.e. before birth, and this is certainly a fundamental aspect. The allowance will then be paid until the age of 18 and then in a reduced form, until the 21st, provided that the child is engaged in a course of study or training. In addition, it is useful to point out that the allowance is increased for children after the second. Important is the support provided for households with one or more children with disabilities. I am glad that this bill comes to the House just in conjunction with the World Day for Autism Awareness, which takes place on 2 April. In particular, with the delegation that Parliament will give to the Government it will be necessary to identify economic resources in order for the allowance for disabled children to be increased and for this increase to be graduated according to the seriousness of the disability itself. In addition, the allowance without a bonus will continue to be paid even after the 21st year, without a fixed age limit, provided that the child is borne by the parents. Finally, for these families, the allowance will not have to be considered for the purposes of calculating the social benefits facilitated, the care treatments and any other benefits dedicated to disabled people, so it can only be added as real support for these families. In the final analysis, I think it is important to stress that the full compatibility of the allowance with the use of citizenship income has been ensured. The measure under discussion today represents a substantial step forward, a change that aims to help the weakest, to combat poverty and to make inclusion as broad as possible, trying to achieve that equality that has been advertised too many times, but not realized in fact, eliminating the gaps that negatively affect the level of democracy of a country. As a member of the Movimento 5 Stars, as a senator, as a mother of two twins, as a prison director, but above all as a woman, it is an honor and a boast to contribute to make this change effective for which we of the Movimento 5 Stars have always struggled, thinking also of the struggles of the constituent Mothers like Nilde Iotti, who have proposed and accepted norms to protect the family and equality of women within it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u40	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank you, all the senators and senators, as well as those who have spoken, for the extraordinary work done with tenacity, convergence and unity by the whole of Parliament, the Senate and before that - let me remind you - by the House of Members, which adopted this measure unanimously at first reading. Today is a good day for Italy, not only because we mark the arrival of an important measure, but also because it begins a new time, that of the future and the restart for our country, and of this time that is about to begin - you have remembered in your interventions - we all assume full responsibility. It is the first step of a historical and integrated reform of our country's family policies, which invests in community relations, families, education, gender equality and the protagonism of young people. The establishment of the universal single allowance within the reform of the so-called family act clearly marks a paradigm shift in family policies and support for birth. This happens at a particular moment in the history of our country, dramatic, of pain, which has affected the personal and community life of everyone and of each one; it is a moment that has invaded our lives and a drama that has taken away the possibility of planning and looking to tomorrow and that has devastated - we use this strong term - the life of our country's families, leading them to uncertainty and fear of the future. Today Parliament gives the sign that it is possible to restore the concreteness of hope to all the women and men of our country. [[Applause]] Let me say that, on behalf of the Government, I also particularly appreciated the intensity with which you looked at the new generations. I believe that today in front of the country the institutions have had the courage to put the new generations, those girls, those children and those young people who in these hours are paying the most for the feeling of uncertainty, loneliness and fear of the future. As of today, these children, these children and these young people are at the heart of our commitment. With this measure, Parliament affirms an important principle of reality, not just of substance: the universality of the value that this generation represents for all of us. The lives, dreams and desires of these young people are at the heart of our policies and are a value for all, because in those dreams and desires there is already a piece of our future today. The demographic decline - it has been said - has reached dramatic levels for Italy and it is no longer enough to recognize only its devastating, economic and social effects; we must understand its deepest reasons, which consist in the impossibility that today women and men have to look to tomorrow and see themselves projected into the future; and a country that does not have the possibility to project itself into the future cannot dare those courageous choices, of novelty and development that are instead necessary today. That is why we must give back to the citizens - as you said - the freedom to dare dreams and desires and put them in a position to achieve them. This is done within an integrated reform, as you have sounded. You are right: the universal single allowance is an extraordinary historical step, expected for years; it is the result of a long journey, but it takes full value only in a reform that provides equal parental leave between women and men, for all workers and workers, and investment in women's work, education, educational services from early childhood and in the promotion of autonomy and the protagonism of the work and training of young people. In this House we have the full awareness - I know and you are aware - that we are using the resources of our children's future and a good and fair way to use them is to make an investment so that their future is better than ours today. Let me take a step on the issue of gender equality, which has been mentioned. Never again will a woman in our country be deprived of the freedom to choose to be a worker and a mother. [[Applause]] President Mattarella clearly recalled it on March 8th and I want to use his words: More efforts should be made to restore dignity to women's work and to cope with the demographic crisis. Demographic decline and female employment shortages are among the most important factors of the slowdown in economic growth and are closely linked to each other. And again: It should be recalled, once again, that where women's work grows, where good employment grows, the birth rate is also higher and young people receive a positive boost for their life projects. Policies for the family, support for motherhood, strengthening of services, reconciling working times with those of care are a fundamental element for the growth of our country. We are grateful to President Mattarella for these words and, on behalf of the Government, I confirm the commitment, as President Draghi has reminded us, to follow up the delegation that will be delivered to us by implementing the cheque by the end of July 1st, as planned. I conclude my speech by quoting the words of our Constitution, to which as a Government we feel recalled and to which you referred: It is the duty and right of parents to maintain, educate and educate their children. This is one of the cornerstones that our Constitution gives us and solemnly states in Article 30. But in order for parents to be in a position to fulfil this duty, I recall the need and task of the State to fulfil the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. Today this solidarity is being affirmed in this House thanks to the vote of this House, and the rights of these and the new ones to which we dedicate this commitment and service, are and will be our responsibility. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u42	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u43	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1,100. In the text of the bill it is written that, in the event of legal and effective separation or divorce, the allowance is received by those who have custody of the child, but who are now shared in almost all couples; therefore - as provided for in my amendment - it would be advisable to give the cheque to the parent with whom the children are mainly placed: this must be the criterion. On the other hand, the allowance should be distributed equally in the case of equal employment. In any case, in my opinion, the judge who decides the separation should also decide to whom to allocate the cheque.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u44	Mr President, we have presented the G1.1 agenda, which has two issues of absolute importance, the first of which is that of a necessary revision of the ISEE, which is in the background, but which is likely to frustrate the effects of the single cheque for a large part. In fact - as I will explain better during the explanation of vote - family duties are not properly and correctly assessed with the present ISEE. The risk is that substantial iniquities will be created. The second issue concerns the safeguard clause. It must not have escaped that in the hearings in the Chamber of Deputies Istat President Gian Carlo Blangiardo pointed out that, with the entry into force of the single cheque, 30% of families risk taking less than what they now take with family allowances, deductions, deductions and bonuses. Understand then that it is impossible to accept that a reform designed to promote families and births becomes, on the contrary, a boomerang. We therefore call for the government to ensure that the necessary changes are made to the reform of the ISEE and above all to include that safeguard clause which prevents families from taking less of what they take today.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u45	Mr President, I have asked to turn Amendment No 1.0.100, tabled by myself and Senator Rauti, into the agenda. I would like to point out that, being an agenda, it will clearly be general in its form. The original amendment follows a bill, already filed in the Senate, for reform of the ISEE. From this perspective, so to speak, ecumenical and collegial work, we hope that from such a proposal, coming from the Senate, we can take inspiration as a basis for reference.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u46	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u47	Mr President, I call on the authors to turn amendments 1,100 and 1,15 into agendas, otherwise the opinion is against it. On the agenda of Mr Pillon's G1.1 I propose a rewording in both paragraphs of the device: after the words "the Government" to add all the words "anything" before "modifications" are added. On the agenda resulting from the transformation of Senator Drago's amendment (G1,100) I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u48	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u49	I would ask Senator Unterberger whether he accepts the request for the amendments to be changed to his first signature on agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u50	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u51	I would ask Senator Pillon if he accepts the wording proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u52	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u53	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1.101, G1.102, G1.1 (text 2) and G1.100 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 1.18 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u56	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to address the Minister because it is not very clear in this measure how the single allowance is distributed within separate families. Therefore, because today more than ever - alas unfortunately - there are many cases (they are increasing) of couples who separate, also because of the lockdown and the crisis that we are experiencing, I would like to bring to the attention of the House the invitation not to discriminate, so that the child is always in the first place between father and mother. [[Applause]] For this reason, we must not ensure that the single cheque, which is a positive support for the family, can become an additional reason for discord between father and mother. In fact, even in the case of a dominant trust to a parent (because in the shared foster care however there is a positionary parent), we must not forget that the other parent competes (when everything goes well and the judge has established this) to the expenses, to the maintenance, to the education. Therefore, it is not necessary to be misled by the wording of a positionary parent. The positionary parent is the one where the child has his own residence, but the homes can be from both parents and certainly the economic and education interventions derive from both. So let us ensure that this check can be a reason for harmony and not discord, always in the name of children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u59	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I fully agree with what Senator Gallone has just said. In particular, Minister, it seems to me that the wording of the proposal that you are submitting to this branch of Parliament today is sufficiently clear and correct, where it is stated that in the case of joint or shared custody the allowance, in the absence of agreement, is shared equally among parents. I believe that this wording must be safeguarded, because, apart from the cases of exclusive foster care, which, as we know, are very marginal (less than 10% of the cases are mentioned), in the vast majority we have a shared foster care. When the foster care is shared it is important that both parents can be recognized as the single allowance. Otherwise, as Mrs Garrone correctly said, we would go first and foremost to introduce a further cause of dispute between parents, who would also try to obtain from the court the assignment of the single cheque, and secondly to discriminate between a parent of series A, who receives the entire cheque, and one of series B, who does not receive the single cheque. Therefore, the wording contained in the proposal that is being brought to our attention today is, in my view, to be safeguarded and protected.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u60	Colleagues, not quite in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but there is a good reason, I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment referred to Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to turn Amendment 4.1 into an agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u62	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u63	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Unterberger accepts the change in the agenda of amendment 4.1. Therefore, having been accepted by the Government, the G4100 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u66	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr Bonetti, ladies and gentlemen, with this measure we are finally beginning to put order in the jungle of contributions and reductions for the family, replacing as many as eight existing measures, from the birth grant to the deduction of Irpef for dependent children. Finally, categories (self-employed to non-taxable) are included which have so far been excluded from other forms of family support. I recognize from 50 to 250 euros per month until the 21st year of age with a fixed quota and a variable quota tied to the economic conditions of the family. If these are the positive aspects, there are also some critical issues. Many employees are likely to receive less than before, and this needs to be remedied. A more courageous political choice could be made and mothers could be expected to receive the allowance, since they are mainly responsible for family work, often giving up their own income. This reasoning applies, even more so, to separate couples. The criterion cannot be that of shared care, which now have almost all the couples separated, but must be the prevailing placement of the children, also in order to avoid that fathers who do not pay the contribution to the maintenance of the children - unfortunately there are not few - receive half of the allowance. As you may know, in South Tyrol this single allowance has existed for a long time, and from us, in the course of separation or divorce, the courts decide who receives the public contributions, otherwise you risk that a father, who perhaps hardly ever sees the child and does not pay the contribution to the maintenance, will receive half of the cheque and this is not good. Moreover, in Italy there is no other institution that we in South Tyrol have: the institute of the anticipation of the contribution to the maintenance for the child if a parent does not pay it. The Province anticipates it and then goes to collect it from the defaulting parent. This is also a measure in force in many European countries and also in South Tyrol that unfortunately is missing in Italy. So do not make the mistake of considering this intervention as a landing point. It is a measure that has existed in Northern Europe for decades and cannot be considered decisive in relation to the needs of families and to the contrast of demographic decline. Already before the pandemic in Italy the deaths exceeded the new births and this is due to a total absence of tools to reconcile work and family and that encourage a fair distribution of unpaid work in the family between men and women. Between deaths, falling births and economic crisis, in 2020 the demographic balance marked the historical minimum and the resident population experienced a decrease of 384,000 units. It should not be surprising, however, that women make a birth strike: the rhetoric about mothers corresponds to their loneliness, as Titti di Salvo rightly says. Italy renounces to invest on their strength, even at the cost of losing seven points of GDP each year. If young women in Western countries behave according to the economic model of maximizing utility, they should never invest in motherhood. Am I willing to give up my career? Am I willing to live with irregular or part-time contracts? Am I willing to be the first to lose my job in a crisis? Am I willing to work 1,500 free hours a year? Am I willing to take the risk of raising my own child? Am I willing to take the risk of not having a decent pension? Well, according to this economic model, only the crazy and the rich should respond positively to these questions, but politics still does not understand. The basic idea is that women work at home and care can do it automatically and in addition. Therefore it is not acceptable that families in smart working have not been recognized the babysitter bonus. At the same time the amount of the bonus should be increased: 100 euros per week means covering the cost of two hours of babysitting per day, when in a city like Rome it takes on average 53 minutes just to reach the workplace. And then the Italian schools are among those that in Europe have closed the largest number of weeks since the outbreak to the pandemic. Other countries, such as France, have introduced very hard restrictions, but have tried to keep schools open all the time. This was especially useful in a country that has the lowest numbers in Europe for graduates and where an important proportion of those graduates go abroad because here all the doors are locked. In 2020 Italy saw 41,000 people leave, with all the problems that this entails for a consumer-free economy, research without researchers, a state without taxpayers, elderly people without assistance. In essence, without children there is no future. Therefore, a rapid and incisive political initiative is needed to reverse this trend, with measures for families and young people, which must be at the centre of the recovery plan. The state must improve its welfare, starting with nursery schools and afternoon schools, from remodulating working hours to housing policies, otherwise there is a risk that the Next Generation EU will miss the next generation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u69	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Madam Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family, ladies and gentlemen, a poet we love in many people, Tagore, said that every child born brings to the world the happy proclamation that God is not tired of man. It is a verse taken from a poem that many use for baptisms and that is often used for greeting cards, but it is a poem that today seems very far from reality. If we look at the numbers, we see that there is not only a demographic crisis, but an abyss. We remembered them during today's debate: 400,000 new born, in the face of 700,000 dead. It is a fact that, in Italian history, there had never been. God may not be tired of man, but we can say that the Italians have become tired of the future. That future which the President of the Draghi Council also called upon in recent days to consider as a great challenge is perceived as a threat to the new generations, even before the effects of Covid were seen in empty cradles. So what we are doing today is a small step in the face of a gigantic problem, which goes into the background of newspapers, media and social media and which is not considered, but civilizations, Mr President, die like this. Those who know a minimum of history know that in human history the demographic crisis is the starting point for the end of a community. Today Italian politics takes a first fork. Politics is usually divided, today, in this House, politics shares. Mrs. Minister, we acknowledge that you have done a great job. [[Applause]] Let me say, Mr President, that this "dealing with" I want to share with the President-in-Office of the Council Draghi and the previous President of the Count Council, because they both had the strength and intelligence to believe in this issue, that many political forces have put Parliament's attention over the years and that they have seen in us in Italy Alive of the convinced supporters. There was a strange debate about who said it first, even curiously enough, thinking that those who claimed and blamed themselves for the burden of the birthright were once together. We remembered this with my colleague, Mr Nannicini, who thanked me for helping to make this measure the first proposal of the Democratic Party at the 2018 elections: we were together and the rest doesn't matter. Already then we remembered how this proposal had emerged in the great debate of the Lingotto of 2017, but it was the Leopolda of 2019 the event in which you, Mrs. Minister, for the first time made a program together and, for the first time, presented in that room - perhaps it will be useful to understand that the Leopolda is not a current initiative, but a great moment of elaboration of ideas - an organic proposal, which allowed, in sixteen months, to pass from a community of women and men, such as that of the Leopolda, to the Official Gazette, giving the first real response to the demographic crisis. Then we'll see what happens in the next few months. If we really are all in favour of this very important unity, which Parliament is expressing today, it will be the same unity that we will have to put in place so that the family act goes beyond the single and universal cheque. [[Applause]] Mr President, I should like to conclude quickly by saying that today we are also in the presence of an economic fact. It is unfortunately underestimated and underestimated by many experts that the problem of demographic decline is a huge component of economic statistics. Attention, it is never considered and hardly says it, but when GDP collapses in a country, not in the case of a pandemic, but as has often happened in the last twenty years and in the years just passed in our country, it also happens that the base of the population is reduced. That is to say that the demographic decline is not in itself just a social or sociological element, but also has a very great impact for two reasons: the first is that the number of people who obviously contribute to defining GDP is reduced; the second, equally important, is that public debt increases per person. So, if we look at the data of the last years, in 2017, for example, Italy has had a growth of GDP per capita higher than that of all the other countries of the G7, apart from Germany with which it has come to par; but in the statistics we have gone wrong, because there is also an economic element in the demographic decline. However, Mrs. Minister, you know better than we do and you know better than any other person present here that there is first and foremost a cultural fact in choosing the first step of the family act, that is, in choosing the universal single cheque. Yes, because the economic part is an important part that fascinates the students of statistics and the professors of economics, but then there is one more element: today politics tries to give a signal of hope with this gesture - shared and unanimous - and hope is the most difficult thing. In Covid's time, believing in hope is believing in what Charles Peguy called "the irreducible child," the hope for Peguy was the irreducible child. For those who make politics believe in hope, it means accepting to say that the future is no longer a threat. Mr President, the challenge is very difficult, the road is very impervious and the path has just begun. In front of 400,000 new born and 700,000 dead, a civilized country should stop and discuss together. Today the Senate of the Republic, sending to the signature of the President of the Republic and then in the Official Journal this law, makes a very important gesture for the reasons we have remembered about the family, very important for economic reasons, but it does above all a gesture of political hope, because without future politics has no home. And today, Mrs. Minister, you helped give the future a habitable home. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u72	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, the measure of the single cheque, which was adopted unanimously in the House on 21 July last, is finally coming to this House eight months ago. Unfortunately, time has been wasted and we are late in approving a reform that will have to come into force from 1 July and that, according to the first steps of the family act, within which the single cheque is contained, had to be effective - I would like to remind you - from 1 January of this year. I also want to say - we have supported it from the beginning - that the road should not have been that of a draft law delegation, whose times are always uncertain and long. I would also add that we are in a season that sees the increasingly frequent use of draft delegated legislation, which essentially represent a mortgage by the Government on legislative activity, i.e. a progressive marginalisation of Parliament's tasks, shifting the centre of gravity of legislative production, precisely from Parliament to the Commission. But let us come to some aspects of method and merit: in the method, in order to complete the process it is necessary to adopt the implementing decrees, which then have to pass to the competent Commissions, and we hope well in time. It will then be the legislative decrees that guarantee the adequate financial coverage that is not there today. So the time is very short: less than a hundred days for the reform to come into force. If the date is certain, what is not certain, however, is the figure of the cheque, as has already been said. Several simulations have been made, then revised upwards, so we only have forecasts that I hope are not promises that are likely to be in the air. Above all, I look with concern at statements such as yesterday's which quantify 250 euros per month per child: maybe it was! But it's not like that. The blanket is short to cover the needs of everyone and the audience that has rightly been enlarged. It is also the question of method, but also of merit, that we do not know what amounts - I would like to say - will be modulated according to the ISEE. This is precisely one of the critical points that Brothers of Italy has already highlighted in the Chamber, also in the Commission, and then in the Senate. I want to give a more concrete example by making a prediction myself. The children underage are about 10 million; to correspond to all 250 euros per month would need at least 30 billion total, so at least another 10 billion more than the 20 that we have, and this projection is made without counting the increases for disabled children, those provided by the second child, those for large families or for young mothers. I mean, we only have forward-looking calculations and we don't have net calculations for all recipients. In all this we have 20 billion, 6 billion in the 2021 budget law, allocated since 2022, and 3 billion for the second half of 2021, the ones we need right away. To the 6 billion should be added another 14-15 billion that would come from the repeal - I say this in one word - of all the measures in force today, about seven different entries between cheques, bonuses and deductions. Will the portion of the cheque ever really be 250 euros? I don't think so. I'd say you have to be honest. It would be more realistic to estimate that it will oscillate between EUR 100 and EUR 200, that the amount will fall according to income criteria and that in the end it will be the ISEE, in accordance with a vision that also introduces certain discrimination, which will determine the actual audience of those entitled. We are all concerned that in the end a single measure ends up penalising some families compared to what they perceive today on the basis of current systems. I know - we voted for it - that there is a safeguard clause which should protect against the risk of losing something, however, attention. The same safeguard clause - I thank you, Minister, for listening to us - tells us that there is a need, but you know it better than anyone else, to find other resources, otherwise we will not be able to live up to our commitment. We're worried about the ISEE steps. Colleagues, we have also proposed, with my colleague Drago, an amendment, which we agreed to turn into an agenda, so today there is a sort of unanimity (fortunately) on this subject, but you know that the issue of the ISEE and its revision is straightforward; the revision of the variable according to the number of members of the household is a fundamental issue, we must stress that. It is good to move from so many measures to a single measure, but it is not a universal measure, as other colleagues have said: it is a positive reorder that simplifies. But let us go back: do you remember that the single cheque was to travel together with a tax reform that did not exist and of which we actually continue to stress the necessity and urgency? Minister, representatives of the Government, President, the single cheque is also necessary for Brothers of Italy, but it is not enough. It is essential, but it cannot be the only instrument for family policies and for investing in parenthood and birth. It is a structural aid, yes, but it is far from the concept of universal allowance really for everyone, of equal amount, and far from the family quotient, present instead in other European countries. We also think that in order to reverse this negative trend, in fact this demographic collapse, certified by Istat, it is necessary to activate projects to support the family and the birth rate. In order to counter this trend, it is necessary to immediately insert in the recovery plan and in the recovery fund all the elements that also favor the employment of women and the increase of the kindergartens. The PNRR expects two billion more; that's fine, but this will increase the number of seats, maybe we'll get to 40, but we'll never get to that 60% coverage we need. Brothers of Italy also proposed on this point a package of reforms that also sees the opening of the kindergartens for longer, the summer opening and some forms of gratuitousness. Our appeal is and you can do so; we need to include in the recovery fund other measures such as parental leave, as the Minister has also said, and interventions that favour the employment of women, the welfare of proximity and services, as, moreover, Brothers of Italy has always supported in its programme, in its legislative proposals and in all amendments to the government's bill. We're in the middle of a demographic emergency. I have a set of data that I'm not here to peep because time is over, but we're over the demographic winter, we're in the demographic emergency. We shall vote in favour of this measure in our examination, Minister, as we have already done in the House of Deputies, because birth and family are at the heart of our programme and also of our DNA, of our vision of life and of the world. It is a good debt, we accept it, but we are critical and perplexed about the aspects I have mentioned. We therefore recommend that the mountain not give birth to the mini-cheque mouse and not even a bill of exchange and that the joy of continuity be truly sustained. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u75	NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Bonetti, representatives of the Government, Piacenza, Arezzo and Lecce: in 2020 it is as if these three municipalities had disappeared at once because of a negative demographic balance of 300,000 people. Of course, because of the pandemic and the terrible count of deaths that she brought with her, but also because of a decrease in births that we have been greater than in other countries. A decline in the birth rate that certainly does not arise in 2020, but comes from afar. We've had negative records year after year in births for years. For decades our country has been living in a demographic winter; a demographic winter that has negative effects on everything, on growth, on work, on the sustainability of our social state. Demographic trends do not reverse in one day and respond to long-term changes, but even political choices have a weight and choosing not to do anything is a choice. The choice that Italian politics has followed for decades: passively accept the costs of these changes. In the mid-1990s Italy and France had two equal populations, today France has 7 million more inhabitants, largely attributable to a different level of fertility and is not the result of chance, but of a strategy of national unity, supported by all political forces, for an overall package of economic support, leave and childcare. A strategy to remove obstacles to the desire to have children. Yes, that's the point; remove obstacles to desire and freedom. I started from these figures and from the case of France for two reasons. The first is to underline that the single and universal cheque is an important reform and a change of pace for Italian politics; it is not a category bonus that is added to the others, but an overall reform that wants to overcome too many iniquities between employees and self-employment and between high incomes and low incomes that do not benefit from deductions. The second reason is that the polemics about the original substance of this proposal do not make sense in the face of the enormous challenges, which are still open, which we will have to face together. I say this without hiding the satisfaction and pride of the Democratic Party for having included the measure of the single cheque in the 2018 electoral program (senator Renzi also recalled, recognizing the joint work done in those years), putting it at the center of an overall strategy of contrast to the denatality and support to the employment of women. While others made miraculous proposals, difficult to implement and never implemented, we put at the heart of our political proposal the single cheque and a strategy to support the birth and employment of women, because in countries where women work more, they have more children. Once approved by everyone, this reform will be for everyone. In politics there is no copyright, but there are - these yes - the courage and coherence of choices. For this reason, the Democratic Party will be a guardian of this reform and the protagonist, together with the other political forces and the Government, of proposals that incorporate it into an overall and broader strategy. From tomorrow we will have two enemies: the superficiality and self-satisfaction of those who should be content to approve a delegated law with a beautiful philosophy of reform, without devoting soul, body and financial resources to do it well in implementing decrees and accompanying it with other measures just as necessary. Minister Bonetti, we need 3 political choices: to regulate well the instrument of the cheque in the implementing decrees; to invest on social infrastructures for children; to implement real policies for the sharing of care needs within the family and working choices. As for the first political choice, the single and universal cheque must be done well in the decrees, bearing in mind 3 critical issues. In the transition to the Chamber of Deputies, changing the original text of the reform, the ISEE was re-introduced as a tool to select the audience of beneficiaries. However, we need to be careful because we are at risk of putting certain categories at a disadvantage in relation to existing instruments (such as deductions and family allowances) and women's employment. For this reason, in implementing the reform it will be important to look not only at the ISEE, but also at the income components of the sub-components of this indicator. With regard to the second critical issue, we must be careful to measure the corrective measures well because no one gets out of it, otherwise the idea of a change of pace of politics and that the support of dependent children is more generous could be affected. We must be careful that Italians living abroad are not disadvantaged by the abolition of certain institutions and we must balance well the overlap with the income of citizenship in order to improve the scale of equivalence, give real support to poor families with children and combat child poverty. As for the third issue, we need more resources. It takes EUR 1 billion - perhaps EUR 2 - for no one to really put it back and it takes two billion to eliminate employers' contributions to the household allowance, as the delegation requires. We must work to ensure that these resources are in the implementation phase and in the budget law to do both. With regard to the second political choice, investment in childcare infrastructure is needed, for example by adopting the Alliance's children's plan, in order to strengthen educational and school services for girls and children aged between zero and six years. The third political choice concerns the need for real sharing policies. We need to move from a logic of conciliation, based on the retro-thought for which it is always and only women who have to reconcile life and work, to policies of sharing the needs of care for children and working careers within all families. We need compulsory equal paternity leave, we need more generous optional leave and used by both within the couple, we need a facilitated part-time couple, we need help to companies to accompany them in the great effort of flexibility that will be required by this shock of support to parenthood. In announcing the Democratic Party's vote in favour of a reform as just and as important as the single and universal cheque and in reaffirming the Democratic Party's satisfaction and pride to see an important piece of our electoral program become state law, I would like to say that tomorrow the Democratic Party will put all its energies and will not do discounts to anyone so that they do not prevail superficiality and self-complacement, so that the single and universal cheque is done well and truly. The Democratic Party's program doesn't ask us to do that, neither does the Leopolda, the country's future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u78	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we will vote in favour of this measure, because we believe that we are taking an important step in the right direction today. We also believe that the transversality of the support that is accompanying the approval of this measure - I say unanimity - is an important trait to put into value, because it means that the political forces of every sign share the fundamental themes that are the object of our discussion. Of course, Mr President, let me point out that if today's debate contained less well-known seasons, fortunately, very far away and buried in history - I have heard expressions such as "safeguarding the traditional family" and imagine that birth policies can be put in opposition to the migration issue - if we had listened to less of this argument, perhaps we would have had a more advanced debate. However, I take the good of what is coming and allow me just another small note, Mr President, which is not controversial. I say this to you and through you to Senator Renzi: civilizations do not end up with the demographic decline, civilizations end when they no longer know how to interpret the world and the world in which we live does not have a birth problem, but if anything a problem exactly opposite. Of course, there is a gigantic theme that crosses the so-called more advanced societies and among them also Italy: how to reconcile the desire for an infinite love like that for a child with the real possibility of being able to practice it, because this country is famous for the significant distance that is often recorded among the proclamations with respect to the theme of the family and the value of the family - I say the families - and the concrete and real possibility to support them. So if we take a step in the direction of a shortening of this distance, we do the right thing. There are only two points - I say nothing new - that have emerged in today's debate and that I would like to resume quickly. The first is that I am very convinced of the feature of universality, that I think it must be in general the trait that characterizes any choice that is within the frame of a contemporary welfare that we want to build, because universality means building an instrument with meshes not large enough to prevent there are potential beneficiaries that are not precisely recipients of the measure that is imagined and realized. Having understood, for example, that we must deal with certain categories which, I say with great intellectual honesty, some of us have wrongly neglected - I think of the self-employed - and that therefore we must include these categories and make them eligible for measures of this kind is an important step, and the pandemic teaches us that. There is a piece of self-employment - I can say it this way, Mr President - which is becoming a neo-proletariat of this country and therefore imagine a measure that also goes in the direction of crossing categories that traditionally came out of the wide meshes of our welfare is a positive thing (I think of course also the incompetent). I like universality very much. Of course, there is no universality without it being reconciled with the subject of progressiveness because of course, by not doing this operation, we will create more inequalities than we want to combat. Universality convinces me also in the direction of a reorder of the existing instruments: I think that the single cheque replaces the allowance for families with three minors, the bonus baby, the prize at birth, the fund of support for the birth, the deductions Irpef with dependent children, the allowances for the family: I read it because the list makes the jungle that needs to be reduced and in the jungle live contradictions and greater inequalities. So it seems to me that this is a good thing. Many of my previous colleagues have said this and I say it to you, Mr President, and, through you, to the Minister: if we try to avoid that, in view of the inclusion of those categories that would once have been excluded, there is a risk that others will be excluded (I think of some of the employees), if this effort is in the field, we go in the right direction to avoid a kind of paradox that a blanket may become short: we throw it, on the one hand, and we risk discovering sectors of the world of work, on the other. This must not happen. The safeguard clause has been cited. I believe, Madam Minister, that there is an initial definition also in quantitative terms: we are talking about EUR 800 million. These are all things that will then have to be discussed when implementing this measure. The important thing is that we take a step in order to avoid the production of dysfunctions in respect of which - if they were to be produced, precisely - the measure would be ineffective to the end and certainly not in line with the objectives it gives itself. The second point - and I shall finish, Mr President - is of a general nature. To say that this is a small part of a much more complex strategy, as you yourself pointed out, Mrs. Minister, it must not be considered as anything else; it must be the emphasis of the need to give life to an overall strategy, because we are within a changing world and in this changing world and society enormous contradictions continue to exist and will exist even after the approval of this very right measure, because the gigantic theme of gender equality, just to mention the issue that has essentially linked all interventions, does not resolve in this way, if not partially. This must therefore be our positive obsession: putting in line policies and priorities that centralise the issue of gender and address it definitively and effectively. I am thinking of the gigantic issue of equal pay and - I add - a subject that is not gender-based, such as the precariousness of work, but whose impact is likely to be a gender impact, because women are the first to pay the highest price of insecurity. I am also thinking of the issue of equal parental leave - as my previous colleague said - which is not optional: men must be obliged to have access to this opportunity. Because I think that a more just society is also built with such tools: I am thinking of the infrastructure of kindergartens and I think, Madam Minister, also of the regulation of new forms of work organisation. Italians and Italians are experimenting on their skin in these difficult months, and should not be seen with an approach of mistrust or even iconoclast. Smart working and the relationship between new forms of work and new technologies are something to be looked at with great curiosity, even intellectual, as well as from our point of view of political decision-makers. Be careful not to reproduce and even enlarge inequalities. When we say that a woman in smart working can safely look after the son who is at home in DAD, let's say a gigantic corbelleria. And when we say that a woman in that working condition can avoid receiving support and accompanying measures in relation, for example, to the issue of child care, let us say a gigantic thing. Those who said that we need a cultural leap that must go through our choices as legislators, when we put in place, for example, measures such as those with which we will measure ourselves in the coming weeks, starting with the decree-law support. We do this, Mr President and Mrs Minister, because I think that if we take it this way, the desire to enter the new world will surely overcome the fears that are going through in this difficult time.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u81	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are discussing today is one of those where we should have the courage to say: let us stop, reflect, postpone it. Instead, the heat is always to give statements to the press in which loaves and fish are distributed, and in this case cheques of 250 euros per child to everyone. But we know that this is not the case: not all families will receive the declaimed 250 euros per child; indeed, many families will receive a few tens of euros and many others will receive less than what they receive today with the various bonuses, which will be absorbed by the single family cheque. In this regard, I would just mention a study, in which the AREL also participated (I remember that it is the study center of Enrico Letta, now secretary of the PD), which shows that 1,350,000 families will be penalized by the single cheque mechanism. This is the first vulnus of the bill under consideration: the universal single cheque is not universal [[Applause]] Universal means that it concerns everyone, so the same title of the provision is misleading. It is not enough to say that the cheque brings 6,280,000 families to the improvement. The fact is that, according to this bill, almost 18 percent of 7.630,000 Italian families and their children do not deserve to be protected by the Italian State. On the basis of this acquired awareness, the pursuit of new financial resources - for his part, Minister Bonetti, whose good intentions and good faith we do not question at all - through the involvement of the MEF has started. Resources that are not there at the moment. These new resources, which would be a sort of safeguard clause, could solve the problem in the next three, four, five years, because we cannot go any further: resources would not be enough. A reform of this kind, which undoubtedly has the merit of merging and rationalising the existing measures into a single text, leads, however, to an unfair cheque. In no foreign system exists this inequality between Serie A and Serie B children. [[Applause]] In Germany, even the cheque is exactly the same for every bow, pink or blue, whether it was born in the suburbs or in the residential neighborhood. And please, don't ask us anymore why in summer foreign families arrive in Italy with three, four, five children, while in Italy on average they make one or one and a half. The fact of this bill is that the average productive class, the one with a gross household income from 50,000 euros per year (we are talking about 2,200-2,300 euros net per month) will probably be penalized. But already after 30,000 euros of gross income the cheque decreases in an important way. The other fact is that you stop giving a value to the 623,000 women who make full-time mothers [[Applause]] and that, with the abolition of deductions for the dependent spouse, they will suffer consequences that will lead to losing and not to having additional resources. If the real intention, Minister, is to include women in the world of work, it is first necessary to provide for them to be employed and to strengthen the system of childcare. The Bonetti bill, the so-called family act, is wider; but above all the possibility of continuing with the examination of that bill would have given Parliament time to do two fundamental things: first, to continue with an investigation with the categories concerned; secondly, to find the resources really. In order to make a reform that would satisfy all families, with a cheque that was truly universal, it would have to reach several billion more. As you heard, Minister, my speech on behalf of the Group was quite critical. But we want to give confidence to you, to your activity in the Dragons Government and, being a delegated law, we expect you to be able to transform it and that, by receiving the distressing points highlighted by us, you can transform the provisions into provisions for all families. In this respect, in order not to hinder the delegation procedure assigned to you, the Forza Italia Group has even withdrawn the amendments in the Commission. We hope that the universality evoked in the title will become such and that this measure is not like the balcony of Palazzo Chigi, from which the abolition of poverty was announced. The measure, in fact, has the noblest purpose of supporting a number of families economically disadvantaged or with disabilities in their own home and we appreciate this very much. We also hope that in implementing decrees the Government will pay attention to the problem of the ISEE indicators. [[Applause]] As many people have said before me, they are often not a reliable indicator of income and wealth, on the contrary, they sometimes represent a burden. New resources are needed to activate all the additional instruments and structures in support of childhood and adolescence, which can now also be realized - and, I would say, above all - with the resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which will be at your disposal shortly. The hope, Madam Minister, is that by delegation, the objectives set out in this draft law will be pursued and achieved: to promote birth and parenthood and to promote the employment of women. By wishing her good work, I declare the favorable vote of the Senators of Forza Italia Berlusconi President-UDC. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u84	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I believe that the 2020 data, communicated by Istat in these days, are appalling: more than a demographic winter we must talk about a demographic hell, as some people have defined what we are really facing. The real problem is that the number of births so low does not depend at all on the Covid-19, which, as we know, started in our country around March last year. We are therefore talking about conceptions that occurred before the Covid-19. We're in a situation of alarm. Every year we lose a city as big as Florence and the prospect is even worse. The consequences for social security are hallucinating and the prospects for GDP are equally worrying. Let us not forget, Mr President, Minister, that GDP can grow in two ways: either it increases the number of people it consumes, or it increases per capita consumption. We, the consumption per capita have already brought it to what more could be done; now, if we do not begin to grow the number of people who work, consume and produce we can do nothing but take and continue on the path of the total decadence of our country. It is from the nineties that demographers, completely unheard, launch the alarm and we risk being out of time maximum. Demographics report that the majority of children (over 60 percent are spoken of) are born into married couples; for this reason it is indispensable to invest in the family as a natural society founded on marriage. [[Applause]] This is the real cornerstone of family policies: either we go back to investing in the family and its stability or else we can do all the economic support for the birth we want, but we will not get the result. We cannot think, Mr President, Minister, of sinking the natural family and, at the same time, of increasing the birth rate. That's not how it works. It is not a mystery that we are going to vote on this is not the law that we would have liked. The single allowance is still a welfare policy; that is to say, it is to take tax from the families and then return in the form of a cheque, gracefully according to what the powerful of the moment determines. The idea of putting families with their hats in a row to get what is rightfully theirs is something that from an ideological point of view doesn't like [[Applause]] I believe that a genuine family policy must change the tax system. At present there are situations of family taxation that are unconstitutional. Article 30 of the Constitution requires the family to maintain, educate and educate the offspring, but on the other hand Article 53 states that all must pay for public expenditure due to their ability to contribute. It is not possible to take away from families the resources they use to fulfill a specific duty, which is to maintain, educate and educate the offspring. You know that today bringing a child from conception to graduation costs unthinkable figures, we are talking about 200,000-300,000 euros. I therefore wonder what is the point of taxing people and families to blood and then having to return them in the form of a cheque. We need a flat tax. It is necessary to identify a no tax area for which those incomes that serve the family cannot be taxed in order to meet family burdens. We need the family farmer. These are the policies we would have liked to find. For now, this is a first step towards rationalization, but we are convinced that if we do not achieve fiscal equity for the family, we will not achieve any of the effects that everyone here today claims to wish for. Our agenda, Minister, is serious and we thank you for accepting it. It is a serious and decisive agenda; we will monitor its implementation. It is obvious that we need resources and cover so that it does not happen, Minister, that families are less aware of what they are taking today because of the entry into force of the Single Cheque Act. It would be a mockery to find families who come to take less than they take today and see that it is not a peregrine risk, because, as I anticipated before, the president of Istat tells us that, without prejudice to things as they are today, more than 30% of families risk receiving less than what they perceive today. Mr Minister, it must not happen that the reform of the ISEE does not take place. It has already been said - and I am pleased - several times in this House that the ISEE is unfair, does not take account of family burdens, needs to be reformed and rebuilt. There are also good practices in the bill that we are happy to vote on: firstly, the fact that the allowance is recognised even before birth. It is a first step towards the recognition of the rights of unborn children, first of all - if you will allow me - the right to come to the world, which would already be something. It is also a good thing that an increased allowance is provided for children over the second. Let's not forget that the third child is the one that allows the country to grow up: until the second child is made simply renewal of the parenting couple; from the third onwards it allows the country to grow. Investing in large families is not an expense, but an investment for the future of our country. We fully agree with this measure. We are also in favour of another measure which I mentioned earlier and which is also crucial, namely that separate parents can each receive 50% of the single allowance. There is no point in war between the poor; there is no point in putting further divisive questions on the table of separations and divorces. Everyone has 50% of the allowance, as provided for in the draft law that we are about to vote on, for the single allowance in cases of separation with shared custody of the offspring. Minister, this is not enough. I heard Senator Renzi talking about hope earlier. Minister, it is true; it is not a problem of money. The families of our grandparents lived at a time when the economic situation and prospects of our country were quite different from those of today; they were very bleak compared to ours. Yet our grandparents were generously opening up to life. Why is this not the case today? It's not just an economic problem. Of course, economic measures are important and indispensable, but that is not the problem. The question is how to give hope back to the younger generations and to do this it is necessary to promote a life-friendly mindset. We must start repeating in this House, in television, in the media and whenever it is possible to do so that a child who arrives is always a blessing, that a child who arrives, even if unexpected or at a seemingly wrong time or with disabilities, is always a blessing. [[Applause]] This is a mindset capable of producing hope, the future. Those who welcome life are always and in the first place a hero and children are not products to buy, sell, give or rent; they need a mother and a father. [[Applause]] Let's start telling ourselves; let's start telling ourselves: children do not buy; they do not sell and do not rent. This first step towards anthropological reconstruction passes through municipalities and regions to family size. Many local realities are doing a huge job, from the Province of Trento to entire Regions and Municipalities, thanks to the generous contribution of many associations, such as the National Association of Large Families or others. They are building from low conditions and humus favorable to life and family. I believe that we must encourage in every way those realities so that both from above and from below we can change the mentality of our country and return to a value reconstruction. President. - I conclude with a phrase by the poet Giovanni Pascoli, which is very dear to me. Pascoli said: "The world is born for every born in the world." We hope that with this law so many can be born in the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u87	ROMANO (M5S). Mr President, the single and universal allowance, better known as a single family allowance, will be awarded in Italy following the example of what has already been present in other European countries for a long time. It is the result of a structural project and refers to a benefit, granted to all parents for each dependent child from the seventh month of pregnancy up to the age of 21, with a fixed universal part and one linked to the ISEE income of the family up to a maximum ceiling with an increase for the disabled. Its uniqueness is linked to the fact that it incorporates in a single contribution the current deductions for dependent children and other benefits related to offspring. It is undoubtedly an epochal reform and is at the center of a change of cultural course, where the interest of children and young people must be a priority, the start of a path that finally sees families with children at the center of political action and every economic measure, including - hopefully - the much desired tax reform. A long-awaited tool, therefore, designed to support families with children economically and to try to stem, at least in part, the harmful effects of a demographic crisis that has hit Italy more than other countries, with a declining birth rate, the lowest in the European area: 7 births per 1,000 residents, 9.6 in 2009. Therefore, the convergence around this institution by the political forces in Parliament, which have undoubtedly considered it useful and effective in terms of equity and social justice, is significant, although, with regard to economic resources, the structural turning point only partially fills the gap with France or Germany, where family policies receive ever greater attention. The unique and universal cheque, in Next generation times, is however an opportunity for couples who dream of having children and who even in the uncertainty of the future, even in Covid times, with 16,000 born less in 2020 than in the previous year, can feel their community closer. [[Applause]] The single universal allowance becomes a significant component of family income, especially at a time when the economic holding of households, the decision-making centre for the distribution of income in consumption and savings, is put to the test. The widespread indifference on birth and young people has not only brought an alarming demographic decline, but a consequent decrease in potential GDP and in this sense the single family allowance acquires an even stronger structural value, a significant flywheel for the economic recovery of our country. This is because inequalities and low wages do not fall on the heads of the new generations. Beyond the concept of social justice, any recovery and restarting project must pass precisely from the new generations, which represent the human capital of the future. As always, everything is linked to the priorities of politics and the ability to focus on what can make the difference between the historical moment that we live and what it will be, with the awareness that, when it comes to family, the money exchange, in Italy, alas always tends to remain closed and with intellectual honesty to recognize that the devastating effects of the crisis in place, as happens in all the major crises, falls above all on families, who paradoxically were the main architects of a resistance, which prevented the country system from collapsing. That the single and universal cheque is therefore also the right recognition for the great sacrifice that is supporting the families of Italy, our families, as well as a sign of great civilization and the Viatico of new family policies, aimed at the development of the country system. For these reasons, I declare the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u88	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 1892, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Thus, the draft law No 472 is absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u91	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking about the press reports, which we have all heard this morning, on the alleged false data that have been notified to the Higher Institute of Health by the Sicilian Region. In the investigation, carried out by the prosecutor and the carabinieri of the provincial company of Trapani, which I thank for the valuable work carried out, some facts emerge to say the least disturbing. Three people have been arrested and among them also an executive of the Sicilian Region. Of the many interceptions I read only some, to make understand the tone and gravity of the situation. An intercept shows that the regional manager Letizia Di Liberti, on the phone with the councilman to health Race, who resigned a few hours ago, talking about the data Covid, asks: Do I have to leave them or spread them to him? Of course, they don't know they're intercepted. The city councilman answers: "But are they true?" "Yes, only that they are three days ago," replies the manager and Race gives the ok and says: Let's give them a little space. The manager continues: "Okay, so today I give him 1 and the others I spread these days, okay, okay. While those of St. Mark, who is a hospital 6 are true and even the other 5 are all from yesterday... those of Ragusa, Ragusa 5! And these six at St. Mark's are from yesterday... because yesterday St. Mark had five more of the day before, basically. Okay?........................................................................................................ Okay, responds the city councilman. Mr President, these short interceptions really describe the gravity of what happened, but this must be added - and this is what we are talking about - to the statements made by the former Councillor in November 2020, who complained that Sicily was in the orange zone and claimed that it was in the yellow zone. [[Applause]] Then, it has been said that Sicily goes to the orange zone, because in the evaluation of the indicators the ranking is that, and we wondered why the situation of the contagions is much lower than that of other Regions and also the RT indicator is lower. I am going to conclude, Mr President, but I would just like to ask you for a very small extra space. I also remember the statements made by President Musumeci, who thundered in a press release: The choice of the national government to relegate Sicily to the orange zone seems absurd and unreasonable. I said it and repeated it tonight to the Minister of Health Hope, who wanted to take a serious decision without any prior agreement with the Sicilian Region. Good thing the national government made that decision, otherwise the situation would have been worse. [[Applause]] Well, the Councillor Razza has resigned, President Musumeci has thought well to take interim those delegations, but it is not enough. It is not enough because Sicilian citizens, as well as all Italians, must be guaranteed the right to health. [[Applause]] So we demand that Sicilian health care be immediately commissary and we will put our pressure on the national government to put an end to such situations immediately. [[Applause]] Mr. President, where has my land gone? Poor Sicily, my poor land cannot be administered by such people! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u94	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days there is concern about the future production of the Stellantis automobile plant in Melfi and, consequently, also that of its workers and those of its workers. It is my duty to bring back to this House the anguish that thousands of blue suits are experiencing, as early as mid-February, when, a few days after the third round of the production of the Compass and the hybrid model was due to start, the Stellantis Group decided to send its workers to the integration fund for six weeks, until 28 March, and then there was a further extension until 3 May. In total, they are seventeen weeks of Cassa Integrazione, with the third round postponed to date to be allocated. The problems and reasons lie in the lowering of production. It is not up to me to recommend an industrial plan to the giant newborn Stellantis, but it is my duty to bring back to the Chamber the enormous state aid that the automotive sector has had from our country. To these are added the incentives for the production of electricity and, finally, the guaranteed loan SACE of 6,322 billion granted to the FCA auto to support a supply chain that includes 10,000 enterprises and that represents more than 6% of the gross domestic product. It must be said that we have the oldest vehicle fleet in Europe, but this has negative consequences for environmental pollution and the safety of our roads. It must also be said, however, that the situation in which we are living is structural and we have it for several years in Italy. To this must also be added the cyclical problem of the last year's pandemic. We have - it is true - a problem of refinancing incentives, but the extension by Stellantis of the Cassa Integrazione is not a good sign for the workers of that plant, which is vital not only for Basilicata, but also for the neighboring territories; from the province of Foggia come hundreds of workers and workers in that plant. For all these reasons I have submitted a question to the Ministry of Economic Development, in the person of Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti, to know if he is aware of this situation and what actions he intends to put in the field, suggesting also to open immediately, as soon as possible, a table of confrontation with all the parties involved, starting from a totally absent regional government, that in this period appears to have a totally flat political encephalogram, passing also from the national government, with the representatives of the workers and the representatives of the Stellantis summits. We have to be quick. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u97	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, Byoblu is a channel with 525,000 subscribers, at least 2,000 videos - it is a registered magazine - 200 million views, videos matured in fourteen years of work, effort, sacrifice and sweat. It's a television, a channel with thousands of subscribers. Well, today, arbitrarily - it would have to be said - the Google web giant, who obviously also has the YouTube channel, decided to guillotine that channel, to erase it, so, with a pen stroke. He did so in contempt of the most elementary rules, as well as constitutional guarantees. I think that a web giant, who is in fact a monopolist in the advertising sector, is undermining the right to inform and also to do another type of information. Can't you like that kind of information? It cannot be of interest to a strange publisher, because it is impure, but what is happening by power, perhaps will, by the new powerful I believe is serious. I therefore wanted to bring to the attention of the House - and I will also do so with a parliamentary question - the overpower of these over the top. It is unacceptable for a channel to be closed so arbitrarily. Sooner or later, we're gonna have to face the power of subjects like Google, YouTube, Facebook and more. Attention, because the possibility of saying something different than what they only like is at risk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u98	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-308.ana.u99	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday 31 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.53.
