ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.05 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 16 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u6	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to remind you that three years ago, on 24 March 2018, we elected the first female President of the Senate of the Italian Republic. Ma'am, congratulations! [[Applause. The Assembly stands.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u7	Senator Rizzotti, thank you so much for your best wishes. His words bring me back to the emotion of that day and a choice that I owe to you all and for which I thank you. I would like to see the participation of all women who, with their history, their examples and their courage, have built today's Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u8	I communicate that on 22 March 2021 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy:
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u9	I inform you that the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, at its meeting on 17 March 2021, carried out the partial validation of the senators elected in the one-name colleges. The names of the elected will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u10	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Unfortunately, colleagues, good news is followed by bad news. Senators, I would like to address a moving thought of closeness and condolence to the family, colleagues and friends of Senator Ombretta Fumagalli Carulli. Graduated in law from the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Milan, Ombretta Fumagalli Carulli was first of all a woman of science, who devoted much of her life to study, knowledge, the culture of law and its teaching. After being the first woman in Italy, at only thirty-one years old, to obtain the ownership of a university chair of canon law, it was also, in 1981, the first to be designated by Parliament to the Higher Council of the judiciary: historical results, these, achieved at a time when the presence of women in universities and at the top of the institutions was still a marginal and faultfully underestimated fact. Eletta at the Chamber of Deputies in 1987, Ombretta Fumagalli Carulli was a Member of Parliament for four legislatures, the last here in the Senate, where she was also president of the Italian Renewal Group. Many of his speeches in this Chamber and in Montecitorio are still authentic lessons of law, because of scientific acumen and lucidity of thought. Called several times to carry out delicate positions of Government, he always knew how to be appreciated for competence, professionalism and tireless commitment to the service of citizens. His faith in Christian-democratic values was profound, his respect for the institutions firm and his constant attention to the many fragility of the social fabric. On the occasion of the Great Jubilee of 2000, it was precisely Ombretta Fumagalli Carulli who promoted the creation of an international interparliamentary group to which the representatives of one hundred nations joined, an expression of five continents. As president of that body, he became a passionate voice in diplomacy and in major international bodies. A passionate voice of the reasons and demands of so many people in difficulty, a sensitive interpreter of a historical moment of great transformations of the political, economic and social, national and global framework, Ombretta Fumagalli Carulli has been an authoritative and competent voice on many issues, from justice to the protection of the environment and territories, from cooperation and development policies to health policies, from education to employment dynamics, especially those linked to a real valorization of our national excellences. His disappearance deprives us of a great woman, a friend, to whom I linked the common university experience and which I have always esteemed for dedication and civic passion, expression of a way of interpreting political commitment with respect for the opponent, elegance, education and spontaneous openness to dialogue and constructive confrontation, but without ever giving up on their ideas, fighting for them with courage and determination, leveraging on the strength of reason and daily work, in the interests of neighbor and the whole nation. In memory of Senator Ombretta Fumagalli Carulli, I therefore invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u13	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, as you know, following my public appeal for compulsory vaccination of health workers, I have received serious personal threats. I would like to thank you, Mr President, all the Senate, colleagues, institutions and representatives of the institutions and public force who have expressed their solidarity to me and have condemned this climate of hatred. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u14	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 25 and 26 March 2021 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's communications to the Chambers before the European Council allow Parliament to be fully involved in the issues of discussion with our partners. This is an important step to give you the views we intend to take. In my communications I intend to describe the main issues for the Council which will begin tomorrow: the response to the Covid-19 pandemic, action on the single market, industrial policy, digital transformation, relations with Russia and the situation in the eastern Mediterranean. First of all, however, I would like to express great satisfaction at the participation of President Joe Biden of the United States in a segment of the European Council. [[Applause]] Its presence confirms its mutual desire to give new impetus to relations between the European Union and the United States after a long period of time. In my first speech in the Senate I indicated that the anchoring of transatlantic relations is, together with Europeanism, one of the pillars of this government's foreign policy. We intend to pursue it both bilaterally and multilaterally, such as the Italian Presidency of the G20. On 26 March, the European Council recognised the Covid-19 pandemic as an unprecedented challenge for Europe. A year later, we must do everything we can to achieve a full and rapid solution to the health crisis. We know how to do this: we have four safe and effective vaccines; three are already being administered and the fourth, Johnson & Johnson's, will be available from April. Now our goal is to vaccinate as many people as possible, as soon as possible. I would like today's message to you to be a message of trust, a message of trust to all Italians. I have repeated in these weeks that the Government is determined to carry out the vaccination campaign with the greatest intensity and we are already working to compensate for the delays of these months. We must do this for the health of our citizens, for the education of our children and for the recovery of the economy. The acceleration of the vaccination campaign is already visible in the data: in the first three weeks of March, the daily average dose was almost 170,000 doses per day, more than twice as much as in the previous two months. This happened despite the temporary blocking of AstraZeneca, which was partly compensated by increased vaccinations with Pfizer, but our goal is to bring the rate of dosing to half a million a day soon. Accelerating with the vaccination campaign is essential to curb infection, to return to normal and to avoid the emergence of new variants. Compared with the rest of Europe, things are already going pretty well here (for vaccines made, Italy is second after Spain), but for the well-known reasons the European Union is behind many other countries. In the United Kingdom, just to give an example, the vaccination campaign is progressing faster, although it must be said that the number of people who received both doses is comparable to that of Italy. But let's see what we have to learn from that experience and also from that of other countries. Obviously they started two months earlier (also for the known reasons), but there you use a large number of vaccination sites and a large number of people are allowed to administer the vaccines; moreover, obviously the booster of the second dose has been moved over time compared to what happens in Europe. In short, what we have to learn is that, once we have an efficient logistics (and we have it), with fewer formal requirements and greater pragmatism we also get to a greater speed. Proceeding with the administration is important, but it is just as crucial to first vaccinate our elderly and fragile fellow citizens, who have the most to fear for the consequences of the virus. We have already achieved important results: 86 percent of the guests of the health care residences have already received a dose of vaccine and more than two thirds have completed the vaccination cycle. A recent study by the Higher Institute of Health estimated that the number of new cases of Covid-19 diagnosed in the RSA between the end of February and the beginning of March remained broadly stable, with a clear increase in incidence in the general population. With regard to the vaccination coverage of those over eighty years of age, there are unfortunately still important regional differences, which are very difficult to accept. While some regions follow the provisions of the Minister of Health, others neglect their elderly, in favour of priority groups, probably on the basis of some of their bargaining power. We have to be united. We must be united in the exit of the pandemic, as we have been suffering together in the previous months. [[Applause]] All regions must adhere to the priorities indicated by the Ministry of Health. In pandemic time, even if the final decisions - as is well known - are the responsibility of the Government, as has also recalled a recent decision of the Constitutional Court, I am fully aware that only with sincere collaboration between the State and the Regions in the name of the unity of Italy the success will be full. The Government intends to ensure maximum transparency of vaccine data and will make them all public on the website of the Presidency of the Council, Region by Region and age category by age category. As we're vaccination and the vaccination campaign goes on, it's good to start thinking and planning the reopenings. [[Applause]] Now we are looking closely at the data on the contagions - even yesterday there was a meeting of the directing booth - but, if the epidemiological situation permits, we will begin to reopen the school [[First of all. (Applause)]] We will begin to reopen at least primary schools and children's school, even in red areas, at the end of the current restrictions, that is, we hope to be able to do so - I stress that it is a hope - immediately after Easter. [[Comments.]] At European level, we need to demand full compliance from pharmaceutical companies. The European Union must make full use of all available instruments, including the European Union's Regulation for the export of vaccines, approved on 30 January, which makes clear the distribution of vaccines outside the European Union, particularly to countries that are not vulnerable and we believe that it should be applied - and we have demonstrated this - when it is necessary. The pandemic makes clear the opportunity to invest in the production capacity of vaccines in Europe: we must build a chain that is not vulnerable to shocks and decisions that come from outside and we have already begun to establish, supported by the Government, partnership agreements with international production houses in Italy. The European Commission has set up a task force led by Commissioner Thierry Breton to strengthen continental production. There is much talk of strategic autonomy, often with regard to defence, security and the single market, but I believe that today the first is in terms of vaccines. [[Applause]] Safety also concerns raw materials and ecological transition value chains. Global public health requires a common commitment from all major international actors to even the most vulnerable countries. On the other hand, with such a treacherous virus, no one will be really safe until we all are. Italy is fully aware of this, as is the need for increased European credibility on vaccines, so that genuine international solidarity can be achieved in this area. The Covax device is the best tool to achieve this goal. The acceding States include the United States and China; the European Union participates significantly and the European Commission has committed EUR 1 billion; Italy was the first to contribute EUR 1 billion in 2020, with EUR 86 million. The great merit of Covax is to ensure the distribution of vaccines according to the actual needs of receiving countries and not according to the political, economic or geopolitical interest of donors. So far it has ensured deliveries of almost 30 million doses of vaccines to 50 countries. Our wish is to continue to strengthen this mechanism and make it increasingly effective. The Italian Presidency of the G20 has placed global health and the strengthening of international cooperation in the field of health at the heart of its agenda. The World Health Summit, which we will host in Rome on 21 May together with the European Commission, will play a leading role in this. We intend to discuss with other countries the experiences we have gained in the fight against Covid-19. We want to work right now to improve our preparation for future pandemic events and support international research capabilities. Italian research and industry in the field of life sciences are already at the forefront at European and global level and we will do everything we can to keep them there. On 17 March 2021, the European Commission presented a proposal to create a digital green certificate to allow the free and secure movement of EU citizens. The objective is to give, within three months, a digital certificate to those who have been vaccinated, who have carried out a diagnostic test for SARS-CoV-2 or who have recovered. Freedom of movement must go hand in hand with the guarantee of health. However, this objective must be achieved without discrimination and with due regard for the protection of sensitive data of citizens. It is a complex project; the Commission will have to present detailed guidelines and Member States will have to be able to make them operational. I now turn to the issues of development, the single market, industrial policy and digital. The European Council will also discuss issues relating to the single market, industrial policy and digitisation. I do not really need to stress the importance of the single market for our development and the process of European integration. From 1992 to 2018, exports between European countries grew to 20% of the Union's gross domestic product, thus demonstrating that a single European market, cohesive and with the same standards, also allows intra-European exports to develop. Therefore, we should gradually depend less and less on the rest of the world for our exports, as is the case for all major markets and countries. There has also been a great deal of growth in value chains across the various European countries. Foreign direct investment from the rest of the European Union to Italy, with the strengthening of the single market, has also increased. In essence, defending the uniqueness of the market means defending the Italian companies that benefit to a large extent. Some common industrial policy initiatives can help strengthen innovation capacity in Europe, especially in those areas where the European Union has fallen behind. I am thinking of the growth of large new companies operating in the field of information and communication technology. The so-called digital compass, proposed by the European Commission on 9 March, sets out the objectives for strengthening Europe's role in the digital economy in terms of skills and infrastructure. It will not be easy, given the accumulated gap with the United States and China. This process will require profound changes in the training of workers, in the culture of entrepreneurs and in the processes of public administration. In Italy the Next generation EU program offers a huge opportunity. As Minister Colao pointed out in his parliamentary hearing, 20% of funds intended to finance the European recovery and resilience plans are about digital transformation. However, the development of these new sectors cannot be without a fair distribution of their income. We believe that the European Council should move towards a consensual global solution on international digital taxation by mid 2021 within the OECD. I believe that this is a possible contribution, thanks to the cooperation with the new administration of the United States, and so we want to make a commitment on this front. In other words, there is a certain openness and willingness on the part of the administration of a country that in the past had shown complete closure on the possibility of having a digital tax. The Italian Presidency of the G20 is a particularly good opportunity to do so. I will now briefly touch on the issues concerning Russia and Turkey, because the European Council will also make an information point on the future of relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation. We will also discuss the state of the Eastern Mediterranean and it will be an opportunity to take stock of relations between the European Union and Turkey. The European Council will build on the relationship between the European Union and Turkey, presented by High Representative Josep Borrel following the conclusions of the December 2020 European Council. Of course, the European Union needs to work on concrete proposals for a positive agenda that promotes constructive dynamics, including in terms of regional stability. In other words, it is easy to cultivate contrasts in these fields; it is much better to try to build future relationships. There are many issues on which this positive attitude is important: the first is the area of cooperation on migration, the fight against terrorism and the customs union. In this regard, I examined yesterday with President Erdogan the importance of avoiding divisive initiatives and the need, however, to respect human rights. The Turkish abandonment of the Istanbul Convention is a serious step backwards. [[Applause.]] The protection of women from violence, but in general the defence of human rights in all countries is a fundamental European value. [[Applause]] I would say even more: only an identity value for the European Union. [[Applause.]] We must reaffirm our commitment as national governments and parliaments to building a Europe that welcomes young people and forms them as children, not as a labour reserve, often underpaid. A better future for a united Europe goes through concrete action on employment, especially youth, equality, equal opportunities and social rights. We want to address these issues at a social summit on 7 and 8 May of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. This is what we must put at the heart of the conference on the future of Europe, which will begin on 9 May: young people, youth employment; this is the centre of Europe's future. For this event we call for the active participation of all European citizens and national parliaments. The exit from the pandemic is the main challenge of all European governments, but it is not the only one, and we now have the attitude of those who urge other partners and are themselves aware of the need to act urgently, effectively, without losing a moment, as I said in the speech. I am sure that, thanks to your support, we can better address and certainly make much stronger the voice of Italy in Europe and in other international contexts. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u16	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u17	Mr President, the tyranny of time obliges me to make some considerations which are obviously concise. The incipit of the President-in-Office of the Council, who began his speech by quoting Biden, reminded me when we went to training courses on Italian politics during the years of our youth. There was and has been in this country always - in the first, in the second, I do not know if in the third Republic - a continuity on three fundamental points: Europe, the Atlantic choice, multilateralism. Mr President, your merits have been extensively illustrated these days. I do not want to add to the choir because I have been essentially a singer in times that are not suspicious, but I believe that politics, a government or a President of the Council is not enough. It is also necessary to grasp the moment that is determined so many times by situations that are not attributable to the person. You think that in this House a year ago we were talking about Europe, rejecting the temptation of national sovereignty. Multilateralism was seriously harmed, because the first to no longer believe it was the main shareholder of multilateralism, namely the American President. The Atlantic Alliance was undermined, because obviously Trump's priorities were others. The results of all this have been devastating and the Covid-19 has been necessary to understand and open the eyes of all Europeans, demonstrating that the only sovereignism that is needed is the European one and that the point that we have before us is that this Europe does not work for the way the national governments have undermined it in the past years. The Covid test - let us be clear, because this is the first point that will be addressed at the European Council - was not brilliant on the part of the European Commission. There was no brilliance in addressing, for example, the issue of the AstraZeneca vaccine, allowing individual national governments, such as the German one, to take measures that forced others, such as the Italian and French ones, to follow it. In fact, it is obvious - let us be clear - that whoever had been in place of the Italian Government, when Germany withdrew and blocked the AstraZeneca vaccine, would have done the same thing, if only in precautionary terms compared to its own citizens, but it was a very wrong damage and choice. It says who is perhaps - as you all know, always speaking in these foreign and European policy debates - the most pro-German there is. But the mistake was great and there was no coordination between the European Commission. So, Mr President, you were right to talk about a vaccine certificate, but the vaccine certificate is either strictly European, or it is totally useless and, indeed, perhaps harmful. On the subject of the digital transformation of taxes there is a huge agreement on the part of all of us, so all we need is the will and strength of Europe. I would like to end by talking about the Mediterranean, which may not be at the heart of today's debate, but will be at the heart of your talks. Mr President, I have taken - but I already knew it - your historic attention to Germany, which is just and sacrosanct, and also to France. He is right: France and Germany go forward together and the traditional role of Italy is to stay in this partnership, not to oppose it with desireful initiatives. We are there; the role of the best European foreign policy choices, from Ciampi to Napolitano, was to be alongside Germany and France. Mr President, you must then call our French friends to the outcome of the policy, for example, that they have led to the Mediterranean and Libya. Their policy in Libya was alibi... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u18	Senator Casini, unfortunately there is now the new rule: time has expired, the microphone is blocked and it must apply to everyone, I'm sorry. He will be able to deliver the written text of his speech: I cannot make exceptions in any way for anyone. [[Senator Casini's comments. Applause]] Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Draghi, I shall devote the few minutes of my speech to a Europe of which little is said and which is very important: the Europe of democracy and rights, born from the ashes of the Second World War and the defeat of Nazism and Fascism. I want to talk to you about the Europe of rights, for two reasons: the first because democracy and rights - civil rights and social rights together - distinguish the identity of Europe united in diversity, as the Union's motto states, and as you said earlier, Mr President. They are fundamental rights for Europe, which differs, by history and culture, from other political spaces. It's something to be proud of in such a difficult time. The second reason is that the Europe of rights today is threatened and it is essential that Italy loudly makes its voice heard on this. Mr Draghi, you are an Italian who has attended Europe and has breathed in that air of rights and democracy, the opening to the recognition of diversity, the emancipation of women, full equality and you know how much democracy and rights are an invaluable asset for Europe and the guarantee of its very existence, the future of Europe and our future. Today I ask you, Mr Draghi, and all of us, to look beyond our borders, to look at what is happening in Poland and Hungary, and what is happening at the gates of Europe, Erdogan Turkey and al-Sisi Egypt. A very black and dangerous cloud is rising, threatening the Europe of democracy and rights. Turkey has emerged from the Istanbul Convention, as you pointed out, that it is a fundamental tool for protecting women from domestic violence and gender violence and has done so using ideological and instrumental arguments. Poland threatens to do the same and even prepares to propose an international convention for the defence of the so-called traditional family, against women's freedom and against the equality of LGBT people. There has been something unspeakable for us Europeans in Poland for months now, in other words, areas where LGBT people can no longer enter. In Hungary, the time of the pandemic was the time of full powers in Orban, who from the very beginning have been directed against trans people and their dignity. Women and LGBT people are the fixed and common target of this violent and obstinate action of sovereign autocrats, who try by every means to propose a social model based on the exclusion and subordination of some people to others. [[Protests.]] Poor guy! Europe is trying to resist this cloud because, as President Draghi said earlier, human rights are Europe's identity rights. In recent months, the European Commission has proposed a strategy for the full equality of LGBT+ people, to be applied to all Member States. I just want to mention one sentence, which is profoundly significant to me, and I am happy to say it in front of our Minister of the Interior: if you are a parent in a state of the Union, you must be a parent in all states. It is a hope for our families, who in Italy still await the legal recognition of children who pay for the way they are born or for their parents. [[Comments.]] This can't be anymore. I'll finish, before the microphone goes off. President Draghi, we are sure that you will also keep the values of human rights, civil and social rights in Europe together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u20	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u21	Madam President, given the time limit, I would like to ask you now for permission to hand over the text if I cannot make the various points.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u22	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u23	BONINO (Misto-+Eu-Az). I will focus on the issue of vaccines. I am very sorry to criticize institutions of which I am honored to have been a member, but political responsibility is part of the unavoidable burden they assume in carrying out such important functions. On the other hand, on the part of the Commission, I am sorry to say, self-absolute statements and vague assurances about the future continue to come. By the President of the European Council, even predictions about the vaccination campaign, seen as a marathon in which the winners declare themselves in the end, suggesting that the 27 will eventually recover the accumulated delay compared to the great US and England partners. It would be a very interesting parallel if, however, every day of late dosing did not cost Europe thousands of deaths. So the point isn't: we'll see at the end; let's see now. It is superfluous for me to insist on the many mistakes made by the European institutions and the Member States jointly and severally. The Commission, in fact, has claimed to exercise powers which it does not have and the Member States at the beginning have allowed it, unless they criticize it later. On this, I am sorry to say, I appreciated your initiatives, but I must also say that the "bruxellesi" chatter is at zero, because the numbers speak for themselves. It is unlikely that the production problems of pharmaceutical companies will become apparent only when it is time to confirm supplies to the European Union and when there is no delivery to other countries. Belgium, where most of Pfizer's and AstraZeneca's production capacity is based, vaccinated approximately as much as the UK in a day in three months: 840,000 doses only yesterday. That there's a problem somewhere is really an understatement. It will not be, as Krugman says, a European disaster, but we are short of it. We will chair the G20 health. That, perhaps, will be an opportunity to put a few points, but starting tomorrow, in a Council that will be very difficult, we must admit that something has gone wrong. The national states and the European institutions must admit that. I do not enter into the Italian chaos, which will be the subject of another debate, but tomorrow I ask you to defend this truth. We have made mistakes, jointly and severally, European institutions and national countries. That's all it's gonna help us with, maybe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u25	Dear President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, on the pandemic I report what I hear from the people I'm seeing: either it's lockdown or it's not lockdown. This time we have made a middle way: you see too many people around, we probably can't achieve the results we want. Last year's, perhaps because we were improvised, because we didn't know the consequences and we didn't know how it would go, I think it gave more results in health terms. But that's an opinion. On vaccines I think you've given a breakthrough, which was necessary. Let me say that we must buy at all costs. It is true that we are not Israel, that has first left, that has few inhabitants and that has managed, in some way, to grab the doses to vaccinate the whole population. However, something more could be spent on vaccines, even buying them outside the procedures and outside the procurement code, possibly later healing in this Parliament. [[Applause]] In this way we would save on other factors, on care and above all on suffering and the consequences of such suffering. On the European vaccination certificate, which will be discussed at the next summit, I think that we can all agree and that privacy violations cannot be hypothesized; it is necessary in order to move and live. I want to represent the situation in Italy, on the basis of which you have to decide since you are going to speak in Europe. The public debt is my fixation; in my brief speech on the occasion of trusting your Government I spoke about the saved Italy fund. Paolo Panerai took it under the heading "Orsi & Tori" on "Milan Finance"; it is an old project (which is not old, but current), which she knows and on which eventually, when we are no longer in the red zone, you can organize something specific. Method of partial solution of the problem, the fund saves Italy could be appreciated and implemented by you. With regard to the support for the restart, we are on the eve of the debate in this House on the so-called decree-law support, but you have a situation that will be even more difficult (you and we, Mr President-in-Office, on behalf of the Italians), when we have to leave. Then you're gonna need cash and you're gonna need a lot of cash. Let me give you an example of things that tell me: the prices of raw materials (iron and steel) have increased by 30, 40 or even 50 percent, because China makes them incetta. Here, international policy and Europe's policy could say something about relations with China and some mistakes we may have made. [[Applause]] Then there is also the increase in the price of oil; I remember the times when gasoline was increasing by ten or one hundred lire (before the euro) and the newspapers were calling for more petrol, the government thieving it. Instead, it has now increased by 10% and is not mentioned; but this has a crazy effect on prices. For example, products for asphalt have increased (I would like to give an example a lot of land); since we have to invest, local authorities have to tarnish. Let me give you an example of which you are aware, to summarize: if with 50,000 euros you asphalted one kilometer, now you asphalt 700 meters. It's a change, it's something he can't do. The problem is that the prices of raw materials do not depend on us, but we must take this into account. Exporters tell me, for example, that a container was shipped with EUR 700; Today, because the market is in the hands of China, it takes 4,000 euros. There is also the problem of golden power. The previous government in recent weeks has perhaps underestimated and made decisions, i.e. it has given consent to Crédit Agricole for Creval or it has given consent to an international investment fund to buy Interoute, which was owned by GTT (it was the highway of data and it was interesting to defend it as a national interest). On the other hand, France denied the agreement to Fincantieri (which is Cassa Depositi e Prestiti), because of the famous Chantiers de l'Atlantique yards. With France we in Piedmont have an international issue, that of the Colle di Tenda, which we discussed with its Deputy Minister two days ago on site. The Colle di Tenda is an international pass, but France wants to act in its own way; we think it is an issue that you will be asked to deal with in the near future and that you will have to talk to President Macron about. Joking with some friends, it came to my mind and I paraphrased an old phrase: "We will break the kidneys to France." But we do not want to: we must act diplomatically and we trust in its authority. Another aspect of the situation that you are facing, and which has nothing to do with the issues mentioned so far, is the fall in revenue. In the Finance Committee a first drop of 40 billion has been certified; games, all taxes and obviously also extensions, although financed by accounting instruments, see a drop in revenue. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, during the inauguration of the Court of Auditors' judicial year said something interesting: the escape from signature is an atavistic issue, but it has become worse with the procurement code. I think that this code can be reformed, but if you follow the current one in a regular way, day by day, procedure by procedure, with the legal and legitimate responsibility of all, you can also proceed and contract. But the escape of the signature exists and if you have cited it, it means that it is in your sights and I am pleased with it. Europe - I come back to this - is afraid of inflation, but I do not think that at this time of deflation and zero interest there is this problem; physiological inflation could perhaps be an aid to solving debt problems. We are not talking about the Stability Pact and the conditions for recovery; we are asking for too many conditionality on which we must discuss and on which we must be firm and strong, without giving further sovereignty to the technocracy. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, must create the conditions, in agreement with Europe, for growth and for the economy to start again by providing certainty through some instrument which can be discussed in Parliament but which belongs to your Government, to your Ministers, to your advisers and to your creative invention. We believe in this, otherwise we won't come out of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u27	About what, Senator Crucioli? We are in the process of general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u28	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, there has been a rather regrettable and worrying issue. As you know, five colleagues and I have long been calling for the recognition of a member of the Mixed Group... No, Senator Crucioli, I'll interrupt you immediately. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Wait. They didn't let us... president. No, Senator Crucioli. You must read Rule 84 (5) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Senator Crucioli's comments.]] I invite you to sit down, Senator Crucioli. Read the Rules of Procedure, which you should know. Sit down and let the general discussion go on. [[Senator Crucioli's comments.]] Sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has violently upset the world, not saving its effects, to a greater or lesser extent, to any nation. In order to cope with this emergency, all countries, before or after, have opted for more or less generalized and more or less prolonged lockdowns over time, with the consequent closures, however necessary, of activities, places or structures that could, due to their high risk of contagion or assembly and the impossibility of being able to respect the safety distances, create the favourable conditions for the spread of the virus and its variants. Never before, as in times of great difficulty such as the one we are experiencing, must we reiterate the need for cohesion and the sharing of choices between the various countries of the European Union. If we do not work together and do not all go in the same direction, it will be very difficult to effectively combat the global crisis that has struck us like a blizzard. I believe that our Italy, even among the many difficulties and among the many problems, has made choices that can be largely shared by facing the epidemic with measures and measures that have often been referred to for other European countries. These choices are not easy, already made by the Count Government, dictated by the emergency of the moment and always in the perspective that the protection of good health is and must be priority over the many right demands and motivated demands that come from the different social realities. The greatest difficulty was and is, waiting for the vaccination campaign to take off, to find this difficult balance. As mentioned above, the new element is the possibility of using Covid-19 vaccines. Pending a vaccination coverage of the population with sufficient percentages to achieve immunity of flock, we cannot fail to recall the need to continue to adopt the preventive measures, individual and collective, by all of us citizens, indispensable to be able to win this battle. I am obliged, once again, to thank all health workers for their commitment and dedication, but also all the citizens who, with a spirit of sacrifice and solidarity, with affective and economic renunciations, have joined with conviction the preventive programmes adopted. Essential is the acceleration of the vaccination campaign, which is requested unanimously by the territories and which must find its correct application in compliance with the prepared vaccination plan. It is essential that it should leave without any more obstacles in an ever more homogeneous way throughout the national territory. From this point of view, on the one hand, the proper functioning of the organizational machine at all levels, central and regional, and, on the other hand, an adequate availability of the vaccination doses to be administered. In this respect, it will be up to the Government - and in particular yours, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - to reaffirm in Europe the respect for the agreements on the supply of the number of doses of vaccines and contracts concluded with pharmaceutical companies in a transparent manner and in accordance with the commitments made, both from the point of view of the timing of deliveries and the quantity of doses of vaccine promised and actually provided. You have to roll up your sleeves. All this is done not only by enforcing the contracts and supplies of the doses of vaccine, but also by increasing, where possible, the production capacities and improving the processes of use of the vaccine, always respecting their safety and their effectiveness. Let us therefore welcome the possibility of including new anti-Covid-19 vaccine brands, which go to implement the availability of doses necessary to reach in the shortest time an ever wider range of the population, a condition this - as we know - indispensable to stop the mutations of the virus and the reproduction of its variants. We need to put a stop to this and work together with the other European partners. I want to conclude with an invitation that concerns our country: it would be desirable a central direction booth that better coordinates regional interventions and avoids the inefficiencies that different Regions have evidenced in the programming of the administration of the doses, as happened in the last episodes recorded in Lombardy and Calabria. I repeat the important... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u31	Senator, the presidency authorizes you to hand over the rest of your written speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u32	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u33	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council mentioned the words 'trust' and 'hope' in his speech. We all hope that everything will be fine in the end, but this will only happen if we all commit ourselves to getting out of it together. President, the virus does not distinguish race, religion, income or political belief; it infects humans everywhere and at every latitude and, if we do not find the tools to vaccinate the entire world population in a short time, it will not be all right because the virus will have time to change and escape with its variants to vaccines currently in use and will return to us as a boomerang. For this reason, in the first point of the motion for a resolution tabled on behalf of the Italian Left together with the colleagues Nugnes and La Mura, we ask the Government to be effective promoter in the appropriate fora for the temporary derogation to patents provided for in the TRIPs (Trade related aspects of intellectual property rights) agreements, as proposed by the Governments of India and South Africa, and in this way allow not only a more efficient pluralization of the production and distribution of vaccine, but also an acceleration of research. Research, in fact, needs data that are currently covered by the patent, so it is essential to suspend patents. It will not be all right in Europe, dear President, if the European Union fails to redeem itself from the original sin of being born as an economic pact, the one for coal and steel, and not as a community of equal citizens, with inalienable rights and untenable duties. The European Union is the taillight in the percentage of the vaccine population, prey to constraints and scallop agreements with pharmaceutical lobbyists, who dictate the European health agenda. In order for the European people to be sovereign and free from lobbying, we call on them, in the second point of the motion for a resolution, to request and publish contracts with pharmaceutical companies in all their elements and to be promoted at the premises of the European Union to review these contracts in the part of the sanctions in the event of non-compliance (so they will be fulfilled), as well as in the distribution of risks from adverse events, which today fall within the hands of the Member States. You have also mentioned the word "trust"; in fact, everything will be fine if citizens retain confidence in institutions and medicine. Let us not hide that the story of the "stop&go " of the AstraZeneca vaccine has not helped in this direction. We cannot afford to lose the confidence of citizens by making political decisions on issues such as the safety of vaccines and the assessment of adverse effects, which should be exclusively relevant to medicine. You have also spoken of digital innovation and, for this reason, we ask you to be promoted in Europe to adopt an advanced and global tool, in addition to normal pharmacovigilance, that is the so-called revised cap developed by the Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety (GACUS) proposed by the WHO, an algorithm that would allow to have published adverse effects online, so as to identify even the rarest and allow rapid, targeted and unconditioned interventions from political and economic constraints. It seems obvious to everyone, from this terrible pandemic, how vaccines are not just a weapon against the virus, but war instruments to prevail in the global geopolitical chessboard. In the name of a responsible and proactive opposition, we therefore ask you to take our proposals seriously and to give a positive opinion on our motion for a resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u34	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u35	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, after a few years in which much of the policy has believed Turkey's possible integration into the European institutions, starting negotiations for an accession process, we are in a totally different situation today. Since 2013, the year of the repression of the protests at Gezi Park, passing through Erdogan's election as President of the Republic, Turkey has undertaken an increasingly authoritarian drift. Since 2016, the situation regarding the rule of domestic law has been very serious. Only in the last week have we seen Erdogan's announcement of unilateral withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women. Again in the last seven days there has been a new and serious indicator of the situation within Turkey: the Supreme Court of Appeal has made a request to dissolve the Democratic Party of Peoples, the pro-Kurdish political party, which today represents the second force of opposition in the Turkish Parliament. Let us remember that Turkey has received almost EUR 30 billion from the European Investment Bank since 2000 and, since 2002, more than EUR 10 billion from the pre-accession fund. From 2016 to today, 6 billion euros have been made available for the management of refugees. It is difficult to understand this double-mindedness of the Union: attentive to universal values and rights, however, it fails to make a clear decision and position towards Turkey. Why should the issue of Turkey concern us closely as Italy? The new foreign policy in Istanbul is increasingly aggressive, as we can see in Libya, where Turkey is now a fundamental actor because of the lack of courage of Europe and Italy. Arab Springs in 2011 and the United States' disengagement in the Mediterranean have produced several power gaps that have made life complicated for Italy and Europe in relations with the countries of North Africa. It is also extremely difficult to cooperate with the Maghreb countries, because there is no form of integration between them. Trade between Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya and Egypt is almost null and void. It is therefore difficult to establish strategic cooperation with an area that does not exist as a single bloc, where Turkey aims to expand its influence. In order to maintain the strategic balance of the area, Europe must insist on creating a single bloc, such as the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) of West Africa, to facilitate future relations. With the Biden Presidency and the reading of the first strategic documents produced by the new administration, we have realised that the European Union will become a priority area for the United States. Very well: let us unite to bring back NATO always present in the Mediterranean, to make the European institutions cooperate with the Atlantic institutions so that they form an instrument of cooperation in the countries of North Africa. Let us not leave them in the hands of external powers and in conflict with our interests. The economic crisis resulting from the pandemic will also have a devastating effect on the countries of North Africa and sub-Saharan Africa. The risk of instability in the area will increase considerably with the effects that we all know now. Let us not be unprepared, Mr President. Let us return to a strategic approach in the long run or we will find ourselves in the coming years with countries, such as Turkey, stablely in the Mediterranean area. I conclude by saying that Turkey must decide whether to remain an ally of Western democracies or perhaps go towards China. Mr President, I wish you well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u36	I would like to welcome Senator Castiello back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u37	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u38	Madam President, kind senators and senators, members of the Government, President of the Council, the pandemic has multiplied everyone's commitment to looking for the best solutions to be implemented in an unprecedented scenario in the history of humanity for the effects both on life and on the economy. It remains a difficult task for us politicians and for all administrations, but also an extraordinary opportunity to frame the real needs to focus new horizons in defined times. The first necessity is always health and, therefore, now of empire between the plans of each government there are the vaccines, the acceleration in the production, the distribution on the territories and the administration. Every effort must be made to get from here to the end of the second quarter of this year to reach and hopefully exceed the threshold of 50% of the vaccinated population. Global health cooperation remains essential, in the full belief that vaccines are a common good. And it is a need to secure the global vaccination campaign, which also serves to prevent the emergence of new and more dangerous variants. Synergic work among the countries of the world is also indispensable for achieving environmental sustainability, protecting biodiversity, respecting environmental standards and public health, substantially in line with the objectives of the European green deal. In addition to respect for the environment, there is also a need for universal respect for the fundamental rights of women and men, of which there are unfortunately violations all over the world. Sixty years have passed since the publication of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but it is still a dream more than a reality. Moreover, it is extremely disturbing to consider as a renaissance the horrendous conditions in which peoples live in too many countries of the world. We therefore need a global policy which looks at social and economic development, the single market, but which must always protect local production and ensure the proper distribution of value. There are still many obstacles to be faced, including the digital transition for which Italy occupies the last places in Europe. This is an unacceptable condition that will also reverbrate its negative effects in the governance of the pandemic. It is also unacceptable that the so-called big techs, the web giants, pay cheap taxes in Europe, bringing their homes to states with preferential taxation regimes, penalising our businesses. Solutions such as a single European digital tax for non-European companies are urgently needed. I am part of the 9th Commission and I would like to represent how important it is, and how clearly it is in this area that its delay, its digitisation, is essential to avoid the abuse of pesticides and the waste of water that we can no longer afford. There is also a need for research for innovation that is in step with needs and for energy conversion that respects natural heritage and therefore agricultural land. Natural beauty and landscape are an inestimable cultural heritage, a strategic resource that makes Italy a popular tourist destination from all over the world, but that still pays for the burning of atavistic infrastructure deficiencies. All this is much more evident in the internal areas, which seem inevitably destined for depopulation and abandonment, especially in the South. This situation must be reversed, as the beauty of those areas is incomparable. Meanwhile, the pandemic reality that we are living requires us to consider social distancing necessary and opens up a new and useful opportunity for these places. In general, it is necessary to consider existing territorial imbalances and the fact that investment in the South has been more than halved over the last decade. The greatness of Italy is given by the variety of territories, which from North to South represents a value to be safeguarded. A value are also our food and wine products and our Mediterranean diet, an immaterial heritage of UNESCO, undermined by the labelling system Nutri-Score, an intuitive and misleading method, because it makes it appear as harmful to health - for example - olive oil and Parmesan. Instead, we need a food culture to protect Made in Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u39	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u40	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the first time today I am speaking from this post, among the benches of the Mixed Group, to which I have come for voting no to trust the Government of the Dragons, your Government. However, I follow it very carefully and, precisely in view of the European Council to be held on 25 and 26 this month, since we will be talking about vaccines for the pandemic that is putting us to the test, including the single market, I strongly ask you, President, to insist on behalf of and protection of the Italian food and wine excellences, which today are felt and threatened precisely by Europe. I am referring to the system of nutrition labelling which from Brussels would like to apply to all Member States and which experts firmly say that it penalises products that have made great in the world made in Italy. It is not acceptable, Mr President, that countries such as France, which has drawn up the Nutri-Score, Spain, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, should join forces to persuade Europe to adopt those stamps which only penalise Made in Italy. The now sad and famous traffic light label is wanted by the main multinationals, but it is fought by the producers of the most important Italian PDOs and PGIs, from Parmesan to wine, from Parma ham to extra virgin olive oil and many precious foods of the Mediterranean diet. All these foods would be made from red bubbles because of their content of fats, salts and sugars scientifically considered healthy. We need to do more and we need to do it now, both because the issue has come back very topically; and because Brussels will have to decide only on the controversial issue of labels in 2022; and above all because the resumption of the Italian post-Pandemic coronavirus market must lay its foundations for the export of quality agri-food and wine products. The Nutri-Score model, President, is a model that endangers a system that is worth 552 billion and constitutes 15% of Italian GDP and - worse still - the existence of quality Italian products. We are faced with a sneaky attempt, masked by health protection, to penalize traditional products in order to favour foods built in the laboratory precisely by multinational ones that today support the introduction of the traffic light system; a paradox for which our Parmigiano Reggiano would be classified with the red traffic light, while food and drink produced in the synthesis laboratories would perhaps be classified excellent for health and marked by the green color. A victory the Made in Italy had already achieved it in December, when the Count government had blocked the conclusion document of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council of the European Union, which would accelerate the adoption of a color labelling system on the model of the Nutri-Score. Italy therefore urges you, President, to go to Europe to defend the products of Made in Italy. I also greet Mr Patuanelli, who is present in this Chamber, who I already know that he has raised this important and very dangerous European phenomenon in Brussels these days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ostellari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u42	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, health is the most valuable asset of an individual and of a people. In order to preserve it, has Europe worked well and promptly? At the next conference of the European Council, we will also have to talk about this. And, in order to evaluate the spread of vaccines among Member States, it will be necessary to retrace the difficult and confused months that have passed, starting from a date: June 17, 2020. It is the first official communication from the European Commission on an integrated and comprehensive strategy on that day, all six months after the first outbreak of Covid in the Chinese city of Wuhan and four months after the first case in a Member State. By 30 September 2020, the European institutions had invested around €459 million in Coronavirus projects. Enough? About a week ago, the Vice President of the European Commission, in an interview with a German newspaper, said that mistakes were made by the European institutions when ordering vaccines. Eric Mamer, spokesperson for the Commission itself, replied to him shortly afterwards and denied the possibility of errors in the procurement of vaccines. Who's right? Let's look at the data. From a comparative analysis of what has happened in the programming, financing, procurement and distribution of vaccines in the United States and the United Kingdom, the differences are clear. The United States has pursued the financing and procurement of vaccines through the Warp Speed operation, officially announced as early as May 2020. The charge, initially estimated at 10 billion, was then increased with specific executive orders. Unlike the European Union, the United States and the United Kingdom have already bought millions of doses of vaccines in the summer of 2020, even before they knew their effectiveness. Was that a daring move? Perhaps, but in the end it was successful and - as important experts worldwide confirm - it has proved decisive in terms of strategic advantage. Let's take a step back. In the spring of 2020 France, Germany, the Netherlands and Italy formed a kind of partnership called Inclusive vaccine Alliance, contracting a few million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine; all this while countries like France and Spain were negotiating separately with the Moderna company. In June 2020 the European Commission decided to intervene and bought vaccines on behalf of all Member States, thus absorbing the Inclusive vaccine Alliance. The reason? According to the Commission, large countries would always have been able to buy vaccines themselves, but not the smallest countries. Thus, in order to ensure supplies to the latter, the Commission considered that it would negotiate exclusively and for all, with a view to obtaining better prices, in order to demonstrate politically that accession to the Community project was advantageous at the very time when the United Kingdom was leaving the Union. Although the Commission's objective could appear to be commendable in its intentions, the willingness to negotiate on a block basis for 27 countries has proved to be ineffective to say the least. Colleagues, today the European Union claims that it has diversified its orders from the outset and that it has not booked too many doses for lack of certainty about the effectiveness of vaccines, unlike what friends of over-the-shelf have done. The result is in the eyes of everyone: in the face of real savings, the health of our fellow citizens is still in grave danger and with it the maintenance of the economic and social system was also at risk, which, in order to be put back on its feet, will need investments of much more value than the 29 billion used for the purchase of vaccines. Let's compare the numbers. To date, in the United States, there have been at least the first dose of vaccine 85 of the 320 million inhabitants, while in the United Kingdom there are 30 million (almost 50% of the population) the citizens who received the first dose; all this while in the European Union only 50 out of 450 million inhabitants received the first dose. In view of these figures, let us look with confidence at the future, but let us look at what has been done. In addition, Mr Draghi - as you have already shown here with your first actions - we are also calling for a change of pace in Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u43	Colleagues, put down the signs. I find it unacceptable for you to make a demonstration because you are ignoring the Rules of Procedure. He could have said what he wanted at the end of the session. Study the Rules of Procedure and pull the signs away. It's unbelievable. Study! Study and be quiet! [[Comments.]] He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am pleased that this time Parliament, in view of the European Council, will be able to discuss the real problems which concern and concern Italian and European citizens, such as the problem of combating the pandemic, and must no longer waste time on false issues, such as whether or not to request the ESM, which seemed vital until a month ago and which has now completely disappeared from the political debate: false priorities used in art to bring down the previous Government and President Conte and to create a climate of hatred, which certainly did not do the country any good. Given that after his very clear words, President Draghi, the ESM issue is dead and buried, we expect and demand that Senator Renzi - one of the main supporters of the ESM loans - urgently provide explanations to Italian and global public opinion about his activity in Saudi Arabia; about his relations with Prince Mohammed bin Salman; about the money he takes as a member of the board of the Future Investment Initiative, which is a direct emanation of the Saudi Kingdom. Since he is a senator of the Republic paid by the citizens, we expect and expect him to confront real journalists, not imaginary ones, who will also give real explanations about the alleged Saudi Renaissance. And we demand that he himself does not ask questions and give answers as if he were Marzullo. The Covid-19 and the vaccination campaign bring back the real strategic issues, those that really care about Italian and European citizens and that can change their lives and their future. The events of the last twelve months have shown that the terrible impact of the pandemic has been governed by public health, by doctors and paramedics working in the public sector, who have lent themselves to massacred shifts for months and months and still today in order to cover shortages of staff and structures, originating from the savage cuts of resources in this sector, systematically implemented in recent years in the name of an ideology that was and is a complete fandonia, that has been useful only to those who propaled it, since then it has acquired personal positions of power. The facts have shown that it is false whether the private and the market are always virtuous and efficient both the state and always inefficient and wasteful. On the other hand, the facts have shown that hundreds of thousands of human lives have been saved by public health. Let us take note of this, compare ourselves and proceed to the re-enhancing of public health through a colossal and multi-annual programme of investments which also concerns territorial medicine. Let us look at Title V in the area of health and discuss whether it is appropriate for citizens to have 20 regional health systems or whether, instead, it is no longer efficient to return to a system that has centrality and state unity. The position of the Movimento 5 Star is well known and in this regard we have presented a draft law with first signature Taverna - of which I am co-signatorial - and we hope a broad debate in the country and in Parliament in the exclusive interest of citizens. The dysfunctions of the vaccination campaign in some regions are unacceptable - you mentioned it yourself, Mr Draghi - and, out of tragic irony of fate, these inefficiencies have occurred especially in those regions that have self-defined themselves virtuous for years, but which collect for months disasters on disasters because of the complete ineptitude of those who govern them. Finally, let us look at the very important issues of scientific research and the production of medicines. Here too, we need a very strong garrison of the State, of the Member States, for the exclusive protection of the health of European citizens. Here too we need to reverse the unfortunate market and ideological policies of recent years, because the current pandemic has shown that we cannot be at the mercy of private companies that decide the quantity of vaccines to be produced, to which States to sell them, at what prices, whether or not to respect the contract; all to their sole advantage. We have a duty to prevent this and we must act immediately with courage and determination. If we do not, the moral responsibility of hundreds of thousands of deaths will fall upon us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u45	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u46	Mr President, Mr Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, vaccines and vaccines in Italy at European level: the priority at this stage can only be an efficient supply of doses and an acceleration on vaccinations. Scenes like those we have seen in recent days in the Lombardy Region are unacceptable. On the contrary, it is very positive that you, President Draghi, in just a month, have immediately prepared a plan for the vaccination of half a million people a day: it is a huge step forward compared to just a few weeks ago. It was right, already at the last European Council, to demand that the European Union raise its voice towards pharmaceutical companies, in order to fulfil their commitments, and also to prohibit the export outside Europe of vaccines prepared in Italy by those companies themselves. In the same way, your proposal, Mr President, to order further vaccines autonomously, as a country, where we cannot obtain sufficient doses through orders already made by Europe, because we have an imperative: to save lives and return quickly to normality. We cannot afford to make vaccination a political issue and we cannot prevent the use of either vaccine. The situation continues to be too serious. It is necessary to be able to equip in a short time a reasonable number of vaccines, regardless of the type, in order to be able to vaccinate by summer, with the first dose, at least three quarters of the population, in order to substantially reduce the number of serious patients who end up in intensive care. At the same time, it is necessary to speed up the acquisition of licences, in order to be in a position to convert industrial facilities for the production of vaccines, in Italy and in Europe, with a simultaneous massive investment in experimentation, through the creation of a Community incubator that serves to strengthen research at European level and to make us as autonomous as possible in the field of vaccines. Our ambition is to return to everyday life in the shortest possible time, also favoring the return to free movement. That is why it is good that the European Union has equipped itself with a digital green certificate, i.e. a vaccine passport, which can contribute to a gradual restoration of mobility in Italy and Europe, with positive repercussions at an economic level as well. Alongside the health issue, however, there is another ambitious theme at the heart of tomorrow's agenda: the issue of international relations. We find ourselves in your words, Mr President, whenever you stress the Europeanist and Atlanticist footprint of your Government, as well as when you express concern about what is happening within the Russian Federation and in other countries about the lack of respect for fundamental rights. We share these concerns with regard to Russia, for example, with which, as the European Union, we have rather tense political relations, because we are contesting several of their infringements through a progressive tightening of sanctions. Although the latter were not enough to dissuade Putin from his authoritarian attitudes, I believe that they continue to remain the only way forward to signal our disappointment, in Russia as well as in other countries where the universally recognized rights are systematically violated. I think that the choice made by the European Union to provide targeted sanctions against individuals is a good one, so as to burden as little as possible on an entire civil society and to strike responsible leaders close to the Presidency in a timely manner. In this way, we try to keep open the dialogue with a country that for its history, but also for its geographical position, is destined to maintain a role of importance for the European Union. By our political action, we try to induce our international partners to respect the rule of law, including women's rights. And that is what we are aiming at with the call for a European Union agenda with Turkey, for any financial and cooperation agreements to be made on Turkey's return to the Istanbul Convention. We need a balanced foreign policy, in which Italy is the protagonist, in favour of dialogue and mediation. We need an Italy that is present. With you, Mr President, we are sure that the voice of Italy will count again. We're at your side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u47	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u48	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we listened to you with great interest and we would have liked it here a month ago, at the previous European Council, when we were also talking about a vaccination plan. Unfortunately, our proposal has not been accepted and we hope that it will become institutional practice to come to Parliament and involve it at the European Councils, also to give a sign of discontinuity with the previous Commission, which has progressively emptied it of certain powers and prerogatives with many acts. It has been a month since that European Council to date, unprecedented things have happened and, Mr President, it is time to go further. Mr President-in-Office of the Council,Brothers of Italy are asking you to raise your voice in Europe and to do so in the management of vaccines. You must say clearly, because you can do so, that the impact of the variants has found European countries unprepared, despite the fact that the rate of contagion has long been known. In this climate of unpreparedness, the delayed prophylaxis campaign, which revealed the total and resounding failure of the European Union in the vaccination plan, was a short-circuit. The European Union has signed capestro contracts with pharmaceutical companies, which have not respected the timing and the number of doses to be delivered and, thanks to those absurd constraints, signed by Brussels, those same pharmaceutical companies have remained substantially unpunished compared to their failures. On this failure, like a cyclone, came the issue of AstraZeneca of March 10: the one just passed was therefore a very dense month. Mr President, you can and must therefore tell Europe that you have enormous responsibilities in mismanaging vaccination plans and you must do so, because Europe is paying a very high price to the pandemic. The number of victims has already exceeded one million: this is 35.5% of the total number of deaths on the planet. In his last press conference, during the decree-law support, he mentioned a concept inspired by pragmatism also with regard to the export of vaccines by unfulfilled pharmaceutical companies. He also said more: if the EU's coordination does not work, we will do it another way; and if the EU does not allow it soon, we can do it. It almost implied that it could be opened to the evaluation of Sputnik. This pragmatism and decision-making autonomy, which today has called strategic autonomy, are fine: do it and you will agree with us. If Sputnik is a safe and effective vaccine, there is no trade war to hold. It should be evaluated and marketed immediately, as well as any other vaccine considered potentially useful to the Covid contrast. If the serum produced by Moscow's scientists, Mr President, can help win the pandemic, the European Union cannot refuse another potential remedy. We cannot afford this only because of geopolitical prejudice, because the interest of health and scientific interest must prevail. If Commissioner Breton says - as he did today - that he does not need it, you can easily say otherwise. In short, Mr President, I use the words of Giorgia Meloni in saying that the Italian Government must awaken from torpor and act in the exclusive national interest, intervening in Europe and, if necessary, moving on in its own way. No more delays and trade wars. Just waste a time that isn't there, while the virus accelerates and changes! We need a radical reversal of course. I'm coming to the vaccination plan now. You say today that we will vaccinate as many people as possible in the shortest possible time. Nothing to say: it is acceptable. The point, though, is numbers. If the pace is that of today, that is 158,000 doses, to reach 70 percent of Italians it takes over a year. And I'm not saying that. That cannot remain the rhythm. When you say, optimistically perhaps, that there might be two months late, I must think that every day late can mean 500 people dying. If I have to multiply this for two months, that means 30,000 people can die. And I don't want to do any more math, because they're not numbers, but they're people, and the responsibility is huge. So what's the plan? 500,000 injections a day in April and 700,000 in May? Well, you gotta get there. You have to get there and be ready. The plan prepared by General Son may function as a machine, but only if there are the necessary doses and if there is the audience to administer them, otherwise everything will fail. We need to develop a lot of things that we hear about but that we do not see put into a system. The vaccination campaign launched on December 27 then failed. You do not have direct and personal responsibilities for this, of course, but you know that this is part of the failed health policy put in place by the previous Commission, which sees Minister Hope as a sign of a left continuity, while it is of radical discontinuity that, even on this, Italy needs. Again, he asked the regions for a realignment. That is right, but if there is no precise indication at the central level, it is difficult to recall the regions. How come we have the paradox for which we see that the population over 80 has been vaccinated even for 30 percent of its total, when it is now clear that the virus affects 86 percent of elderly people. It's an inexplicable paradox, President Draghi. Again, the vaccination campaign started according to certain categories, while now, instead, for age groups: confusion and delays. And above all, you have forgotten, in stages 1 and 2, the categories of disabled people, fragile people, caregivers and their families. Today - fortunately - you remember it, and also thanks to an amendment by Brothers of Italy. Nothing can justify the chaos we have seen. Nothing will justify elderly people in line, assembled and perhaps brought by bus. Nothing can justify the delay in home care and the delay of unupdated protocols by the Ministry. Nothing at all. We have not only criticized: we have made a vaccination plan. Among other things, we see some proposals included and we are happy with them. This is a case where we're okay with just participating. Our vaccination plan included home care, enlargement of the vaccine audience, involving basic doctors and pharmacists. Even on pharmacists, however, you must hurry to make protocols, otherwise you will not be able to develop this system. You see, President Draghi, the point is also that, on the whole strategy of containing the pandemic, we see no signs of major discontinuity, because we are still here with the DAD, with closed schools, with closed restaurants, with vaccines that do not arrive. I am beginning to conclude, because I realize that my time is over. I'd love to talk about pharmaceutical reshoring, but I'll do it next time. President Draghi, the point is always one and it is always that: what posture to be in Europe. We continue to think that it is necessary to defend, in Europe, the national interest and to consider it to be pre-eminent. We will never be able to accept any transfer of national sovereignty, as you said in your communications on the day of the vote of confidence. Mr President, this is the moment when we have to be assertive and we cannot give in to anything. You look at Europe today from another position. His task and duty today is to think only of Italy and Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Nannicini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u50	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, the next European Council is of fundamental importance for European citizens and citizens, exhausted and distressed by the pandemic and the economic and social effects it produces. The European Union, compared to the 2008 financial crisis and the subsequent sovereign debt crisis, when we made a mistake in time and ways of responding to that dual crisis, has shown that we are there, putting in place a strong and coordinated response. But we cannot be distracted and there can be no delay in implementing that response. Safe, effective and quickly accessible vaccines are the best response not only to the health emergency, but also to the recession and the employment crisis. It is important for the next Council to make choices to reassure European citizens and citizens that, thanks to European coordination, all Member States will be able to proceed swiftly with vaccination plans. But getting out of the crisis with a stronger and fairer Europe - and consequently with a stronger and fairer Italy - does not just depend on vaccines; we will have to make a qualitative leap in the construction of Europe today. President Draghi, in your inaugural speech you said that supporting this Government means sharing the prospect of an increasingly integrated European Union, which will come to a common budget capable of supporting countries in times of recession. Clear words: no one better than you can know the limits of leaving monetary policy alone in the response to crises. It is not about giving up sovereignty, but about building a new sovereignty where there is no sovereignty, where the European States alone are not able to respond to the global challenges we face. It is clear that all the decisions required by such a historic passage will not be discussed in the next Council, but it is important that the Italian Government should now make three things clear. The first: Next generation EU is not only the right response to the pandemic emergency, but it is the embryo of a possible future fiscal union, of common debt instruments and taxation that allow us to achieve a stronger European budget and a true European fiscal policy, which complements monetary policy. The second is that a revision of the Stability and Growth Pact is needed before its re-introduction in 2023, taking into account the consequences of the pandemic and alongside budgetary rules, environmental and social sustainability criteria, to foster sustained, sustainable and inclusive growth. The third: the digital and ecological transition of our economies will not be sustainable if we do not rethink the instruments of taxation of multinational corporations, not just digital ones, making a decisive step forward to the OECD BEPS scheme against international tax avoidance and demanding consistent choices from our partners. It is a beautiful signal that the President of the United States Biden is taking part in a part of the next European Council, relaunching a season of multilateralism already inaugurated with the re-entry of the United States into the climate agreement. But it's not enough. The European Union must ask the United States to accede immediately to the Common Reporting Standards, to the multilateral agreement for the exchange of information; without reciprocal and automatic exchange of information there cannot be a fair system of taxation. Multilateralism needs concrete choices, not just symbolic moments. It is time to build a Europe that lives as a community of destiny, cemented by new forms of sovereignty. We have European institutions, a European market and a European currency; we need a European budgetary policy, a European citizenship rooted in some common social rights and a European political area, European parties and trade unions, a political debate that takes the choices that lie ahead of us with a genuinely European head and heart. You are the ideal leader for Italy and Europe to meet this challenge. This challenge cannot be overcome in one day, but it cannot be postponed, clarifying that Italy is there and is ready to move forward with those who are there. After the whatever it takes, we need a whoever it takes, making it clear immediately that there is a strong core of countries ready to make a qualitative leap in European construction, without remaining prisoners of infinite balances and above all crossed vetoes. It's time to build networks, not put up vetoes. Good job. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u52	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have appreciated this morning's statements, but even more so the answers you gave at last Friday's press conference in Palazzo Chigi. The sobriety, but also the effectiveness of its communications have enabled it to give answers which have rarely been heard so clearly by an Italian President of the Council. You said that we are always looking for European coordination and, if it works, we must follow it; if it does not work, we are leaving on our own. Simple, elementary, as when it was said in the consultation that the government's appearance would be strongly pro-European, specifying that those who had been part of it had to share this vision, even in the intention of having a Community budget of more significant size. A strong Europeanism, therefore, that wants to take part in decisions in the national interest, overcoming the contrast between those who have understood Europe as an entity or a superior authority to be subject to and those who have always fought it considering that the national interest was incompatible with that idea of Europe. However, I would like to give you some advice, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: tell you more; a senator tells you that he has been chewing on communication for a few years. Vaccines. You said very clearly that you will take AstraZeneca and that your son has already taken the vaccine, again AstraZeneca, in the United Kingdom: also in this case, simple, clear, convincing; not like that communicative confusion that the EMA has made. What you said about the suspension of AstraZeneca was certainly effective; perhaps - allow me - slightly late: we lost two important days, not in the accounts of vaccinations, but certainly as a spread of uncertainty in the public opinion. In Italy the Government has decided to start rightly from the categories most affected by the incidence of the lethality of the disease, and from the health personnel who are called to stand up and face this emergency. In a vaccination campaign that still has to deal with the scarcity of vaccines, it is necessary to reason in terms of priority intervention; priorities that, except for particular territorial needs, must be determined by the national level of the Government, and the pace of vaccination can no longer have that leopard stain trend that it has had until today. I hope that the military pragmatism of generating the Son will help us in this direction. We have also raised the problem of compulsory vaccination of certain categories, and those in this House who have made a proposal in this regard have been or have been lynched by keyboard lions, who perhaps are the same keyboard lions who were making shameful No vax campaigns. All my solidarity goes to Senator Ronzulli, who has been the subject of indecorous and unworthy attacks. [[Applause]] A second topic of the European Council is the Mediterranean issue. As Italy we are members of the G7 and, inside, the only country projected entirely on the Mediterranean. We are the southern frontier of Europe in relation to economic immigration. In the Mediterranean we have strategic and economic interests of different sectors (from fishing to tourism, to gas and oil explorations) and every geopolitical tension in the waters of the Mediterranean reflects negatively on national interests and security. In the face of all this, we have basically abdicated every role and handed over the keys of the Mediterranean to Turkey and Russia, militarily, politically and culturally. Turkey and Russia split Syria first. Turkey, in general indifference, has provided hundreds of armed drones to the Azerbaijani forces, which have annihilated the armed forces, has indicated the new Libyan Premier and, together with Russia, has again divided Libya, ridiculing the European embargo of the Irini mission and bringing about 20,000 jihadist tagliagoles from Syria that had to balance the support to Haftar of the mercenaries of the Wagner group. Too raw my reading about how much there is to meditate on? I don't think so. Our political class has always had little interest in foreign policy, but here we are talking about the role of Italy in the world, rather than what happens at home. The time available to me is running out, so I shall finish my speech. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must first of all ensure our security; promote our strategic, commercial and economic interests and recover that role of influence which our country has to play in the Mediterranean. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u53	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, on this important meeting we are putting together our ideas and considerations in a totally different scenario than we did a few weeks ago. I would like to highlight two points, one of which partly coincides with what other Members have said and which has a great deal to do with this great global challenge for the health of all. In 1978 there was the slogan of Alma-Ata that said "Health for all by 2000". We would like to be able to say: health for everyone in the year 2021. The challenge of the pandemic, in fact, you win it all together or we will not win it at all. As far as Italy is concerned, however, beyond a series of falsely captivating information, very often offered even in the evening on the news and on various occasions when it seems that everything is going well in Italy (to hear the news, we go better every evening, except the number of people who die and the number of vaccines that are not made), we rarely hear the problem developed: it is not only the question of the number of vaccines available in Italy that make the difference compared to other countries. What makes the difference is that the number of vaccines often comes into collision with the vaccineers, with the places where they are vaccinated and with the procedures by which people have to register for vaccination. Recently I wrote a letter to General Son referring to all those who, being homeless, despite the age it is very difficult for them to have access to the booking places provided for by regional or national mechanisms. It's very difficult if you don't have a computer or have no way of using it. On the other hand, we know, for example, that people in the United Kingdom have been called directly: there are lists; everyone is already registered for personal codes and it is easy to understand who needs and has priority. We debate many times in issues such as the one we have just experienced with regard to the AstraZeneca affair. In front of the adverse event created in Syracuse, immediately the act of accusation against the doctors present at that time was triggered. Although it is a formal accusation, it has invested an important part of the medical class, charging it with a responsibility that was not directly theirs. You can tell how ambiguous the idea of vaccination at the pharmacy can become. If there is no doctor, in fact, who will ensure that the medical history made at that time to the patient and that the conditions collected on his clinical situation are really optimal? We lack a strategic vision of the whole. You spoke today of a strategic vision, but we prefer to condense our complaint about the number of vaccines that do not come from Europe or from large companies, so that the blame is on others, compared to the internal responsibility of the integrated organisation of vaccine services, vaccine worker, place of vaccination and person responsible for this process. We really lack this harmony of work as a whole, as we very often find in the same fragmentation of our bureaucratic system, largely linked to public administration and also to the Ministry of Health. We reason for parallel lines - as we say so many times, for silos not communicating with each other - and we cannot integrate this vision. It is clear that the real challenge to this problem, which is a problem of an integrated organisational and professional model deficit, should be in the new generations. You said today that there will soon be a major meeting and the next generation, the rights of the young, will be at the heart of the whole of Europe. But the youngest have been deprived of the right to school and are put in the condition of distance teaching, so every evening they tell us that it is fine, except to remember that there are people who, for social classes, do not access to distance teaching, because they lack tools, culture, spaces; there are people who have objective difficulties in learning: I think of the many young people for whom intellectual disabilities are a strong reference point for accessing this model; then there are other forms, perhaps more sophisticated and less known, of discrimination, like the one we are experiencing once again among the children who attend state schools and those who attend paritarian schools, as if certain rights of one were not also the rights of the other and as if this did not introduce, from the youngest age, the concept of discrimination. We are fighting so much against all forms of discrimination, but the discrimination that separates peer school from state school is shameful. We have a law, the Berlinguer law of 2000 (which is twenty-one years old and yet is not yet applied), which allows children to experiment on their own skin, from the beginnings in which they try and confront society, that there are children and stepchildren or, if we prefer, children of a minor god. This reality should represent the greatest and best possible challenge for us; the best youth is what we should be able to bring out after this dramatic operation that the pandemic has imposed on all of us. But what young people could be on the track if they didn't go to school, if they had experience of unemployment and not unemployment, if they didn't have a chance to compete with creative experiences, which are the ones that really develop talent? All this means that this famous next generation, which we all dream of at European level, will not have legs to walk; it will be like, sometimes, to a person who has suffered an accident and who for a long time has stood still, so the whole osteoarticular system struggles to move. Instead, we must begin to take care of them now, because it is now time to allow the new generations to prepare themselves for the post-pandemic challenge. We should not start when the pandemic ends, otherwise we would make the same mistake as those who claim to start the vaccination campaign when the vaccines arrive, having forgotten all the previous stages with which we should have prepared the tools. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u55	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Draghi, there is no doubt that the Council to which he will be present in a few hours' time will be very important. We have an extreme need to return to normal, and we are all aware that this can happen through a serious, determined vaccination campaign and that it knows no boundaries. There is a need, Mr President, to return to life; it seems to be a phrase made and so simple, but it is the reality. We could in fact speak of the vaccination necessity also as a new objective of competitiveness between countries; the first who can begin to circulate their representatives and their entrepreneurs abroad, will have more ability to compete than others. But now there is also, as is evident to anyone, in every country, a need for normality on the part of people, by those who go to school, our elderly and any other person, to be able to go out and find themselves, to resume those relationships and those social relations now substantially cancelled. Mr President, we need to be sure that the hesitations we have seen in past weeks and months, starting with the management of the vaccination plan in the European Union, must not and cannot be repeated in the future. [[Applause]] We trust that you will be able to assert Italian reasons, taking good care that our country has its autonomy and its ability to independence in this field. We have learned with great satisfaction that we are making decisive progress. Minister Giorgetti spoke about the creation of new vaccines or, better, the creation in Italy of vaccines: this reassures us, but we need pragmatic and concrete certainties. President, your communications today will be put to a vote in the Senate with resolutions on which the government will have to commit itself. We firmly believe that this will not only be an exercise in rhetoric because the policy that, unfortunately, even in a recent past, has too often given an example of little credibility and reliability, needs instead to find, in the capacity that the Government must demonstrate to take the commitments and to carry them to the bottom, a point of recovery and a capacity for growth also in public opinion and citizens. We need resources, Mr President, in the European Parliament it must be clear; the rules of the game that have prevented us from growing in recent years must also be changed. We will have to take new debt to support our businesses, artisans, traders, bars and restaurateurs, all those who are closed today and have not found refreshment or support. We will take this new debt, we are here to support your government with the utmost determination when you ask us to take new debt. However, with just as much determination, you in the European Parliament must start to make it clear that the rules that have affected Italy's budget after this pandemic will have to be revised. [[Applause]] In fact, there is no doubt that thinking of returning to the previous rules of the Covid for the management of budgets, whether those of the Municipalities or that of the State, will be impossible. We therefore need, as we call for in the commitments contained in the resolution, a serious awareness of this fact and start reviewing the Treaties and, above all, the rules on budgetary management. The debt will be important, it will grow, but it must grow to support the recovery and the production capacity that has always distinguished our country. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We know, many people tell us and we always tell ourselves that we need to review the rules of the game; we need to reform the rules system. This cannot be done in a single way, but it must also be done in Europe. If we have taken responsibility for supporting your government, it is also to change from within a European Union that has not been up to the expectations of its citizens for too many times. We need to be aware of the need to change the rules of the game with regard to tax in Italy, but also with regard to the fairness of tax systems in Europe; we certainly need to review the rules of governance within the European Union, because it must not only appear, but there must be the certainty that one country cannot check out others, as happened in recent weeks with the management of vaccines. Mr President, we shall give them and give them a mandate by means of the vote, by taking the commitments mentioned, and we trust that your credibility, which has led you to be President of the Council of Ministers, even with our support, can be exercised in this sense at the highest level in Europe. We are used to being pragmatic, you said it earlier and I will quote your words: we must act with less formal requirements and pragmatism. This applies at all levels: national and international. This ability to intervene will be judged by the effectiveness of your Government and we are obviously here to do our part. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u56	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u57	Mr President, as the President-in-Office of the Council reminded us, the European Council meeting will discuss, among other things, the single market, industry and digital, and I would like to focus on this. As you reminded us, the document behind this is the so-called digital compass. At this historical moment we are in a situation of disturbance (if we wanted to use a mathematical analogy) and we need the cardinal points of the compass, which for a very long time were those that the Constitution had indicated to all citizens. We have experienced two moments of crisis, one after the other: 2008 with the financial crisis and now the social and pandemic crisis. These two crises, one after the other, brought us back to the historic moment of the end of the Second World War, when we experienced the 1929 crisis and the Second World War. At that moment the citizens, even if they came from ideologies, from forces, from different thoughts, joined to arrive at the end of the war and write precisely that Constitution that is the compass that has guided us for many years and is still very alive today. At that time there was a great alliance between those who managed the public thing and the people and that alliance led to the economic boom to the implementation of social rights. We still need that strength. The nation states no longer have the chance or the strength to compete in the global market and we must go beyond the nation states. That is what emerges from that document, which is the basis for discussion. This direction is seen when it comes to multi-country projects, in which States collaborate to achieve common goals, such as on the topic of high-performance computing supercomputers (HPC), in which Countries have collaborated to have a computing power that can be comparable to that of the two major actors in the global scene: United States and China. It's the same when it comes to quantum computing. I remember that when I was Undersecretary of the Ministry of Economic Development in the first Conte government we talked about it extensively with the head of the Directorate-General for Communications networks, content and technology (DG Connect), who is the Italian engineer Roberto Viola, a very prepared person. The same is true when it comes to semiconductors, on which the digital compass says that we have to reach 20% of global production; we have an example, which is the STM company, which is jointly owned by the Italian State and the French State, the rest is on the market; then there is also the Austro-German company Infineon. On the cloud we talk about Gaia-X, a federation of companies. But we must go beyond the federation and arrive at something that was the idea of Airbus, that is, a society that works and produces in those systems, within which there are European societies. When I talk about European companies, I am not referring to realities that are part of non-European companies, whose European part has tax and legal seat in Europe; I am talking about truly European companies, which pay taxes and produce in Europe. We have to go beyond all the problems related to tax havens. So maybe we need more planning of the economy. We must find the balance between planning and freedom. We can and must do this by putting citizens at the centre of this action, as always. On the other hand, even when the European Central Bank placed liquidity in the market, it has partly directed the economy and this is something we must continue to do. We must make it clear that competition takes place not within the European Union, but outside the European Union. Competition between EU countries is bad, while competition with non-EU countries is good. The same goes for the web tax. You mentioned the OECD, but the OECD... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u58	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1, No 2, Senator Fattori and other senators, No 3, Senator Paragone and Martelli, No 4, Senator Crucioli and other senators, No 4, Senator Marcucci, Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, De Petris, Faraone, Fantetti and Unterberger, and No 5, Senator Ciriani and other senators have been tabled. The lyrics are in distribution. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Professor Draghi, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u59	Mr President, I would like to thank everyone for the support you have given me in your speeches, which undoubtedly makes these international passages much stronger. There is also another reason for this: these international discussions, if they have a parliamentary passage like this or like others, are transposed not as elite solutions, but as widely shared solutions, with all democracy, with all the society of this country. Thank you, therefore, for that too. [[Applause]] I also thank Senator Romani, who I do not see now, for his advice on communication, of which I will certainly treasure in the future. I will start with foreign policy. The foreign policy line of the Italian Government is to support the Government of National Unity in Libya, with the aim of arriving at the elections at the beginning of December. In the meantime, the ceasefire must be respected and there seems to be encouraging developments on this front, in the sense that various components, mercenaries and non-merchants, begin to leave the country. I myself will make a visit to Libya, I believe on 6 or 7 April, however in the first week of April. It is quite clear that Italy defends its national interests and international cooperation in the field of security with its strategic partners in Libya, in the eastern Mediterranean, but a little everywhere. If there were opposing interests, Italy should have no doubt: it must defend its own national interests. [[Applause]] Italy must not even have, Senator Casini, reverential fears towards any partner, whatever it may be. Moreover, I believe that in my lifetime I have always shown extreme independence in defending the fundamental values of Europe and the nation. [[Applause]] On the vaccination level, I thank you for all your contributions. I don't know if there's been any mistakes or not, I don't feel like wasting my time on what it was. Certainly there has been a great illusion of all European citizens, this is out of the question. Things are getting better now. The Commissioner responsible for this, so only about a month ago, Thierry Breton was very good and the results began to be seen. We must now look to the future. As far as European coordination is concerned, as I was reminded - as I said at the press conference last time - it must always be sought and we must work continuously to strengthen it. If it doesn't work in these dramatic moments, where time is extremely valuable (as many of you have said), you also need to find answers on your own. [[Applause]] Of course, we demand that multinational vaccine manufacturers respect contracts. [[Applause]] On the other hand, you have seen that Italy was in a certain sense the first to base its action on three pillars: to demand strict respect and sanction, even by blocking exports (from this point of view, it was the first), and to proceed with the prompt replacement of the missing vaccines. Actually there was a decrease in vaccination, but only for one day because the day after the lack of vaccine was almost completely compensated with another vaccine having the same characteristics. I repeat that we must look at the experience of other countries to learn. These are new episodes, there is everything to learn and you are learning every day. It is unfair to blame past mistakes for not thinking about the novelty of experience. What do we learn? We learn that an efficient logistics (there must be efficiency, because otherwise we do not even start) allows us to pursue the objectives much faster if, even there, a certain pragmatism is carried out in the administration of vaccines and in the identification of vaccination sites, that is - in essence - we proceed to the deburocratization (horrible word, but that makes the idea) of the process of administration of vaccines. There we have to learn and I think there is no doubt. I still want to say that, precisely by trying to look to the future and taking up the message of confidence that must come out of this European Council, we first - I want to reiterate this - must now start thinking about reopenings, starting with school. [[Applause]] Other issues such as the progress of the European Union - indeed, of the euro area - towards a more integrated union with the adoption of a common budget (or at least the beginning of a journey towards fiscal union) and the rules of the Stability Pact are not included on the agenda of this Council. The only point is that the safeguard clauses that suspend not the Stability Pact, but its procedures, will have to be reactivated in 2023. I believe that the debate on a different Stability Pact and on different rules, of which everyone now feels the need, will last a long time because it will take place in the meantime this year, but also in 2022. These are very long times. We will be able to discuss these issues many times in the future. It is not on the agenda today, and I do not think it will be discussed as a particular subject, but it is clear that we are keeping a close eye on these aspects. [[Applause]] You will then be regularly informed. That's how I think I'm done. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u60	I now ask Mr Amendola to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u61	Mr President, I am against the motion for a resolution. 1, 2, 3 and 5. The opinion is in favour of motion for a resolution No 4 by the majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u62	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u65	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Madam President, colleagues, government representatives, President Draghi, the pandemic is testing the European project, not least because it is not designed as a crisis management. It is in this situation that those who in twelve hours had turned into Europeans return to make Europe the scapegoat of everything. It seems already forgotten that Europe has put the money of the recovery fund on the plate, which finances our public debt with the ECB and pays the Integration Fund with Sure. True, with vaccines it could move faster, but let's not forget that it consists of 27 countries with not always identical interests. If we want to make it more effective in decisions, we must integrate more and give more sovereignty, exactly the opposite of what the critics would like: give nothing and demand the most, and above all blame it for everything that does not work for Europe. It is not the fault of Europe, however, if AstraZeneca has signed commitments that it does not respect and in Europe delivers 33 doses per 1,000 inhabitants against the 210 of Britain or if, instead of implementing five production structures that were designed to provide Europe, it implements only one. If we know that the Big pharmas are not philanthropists, we are also faced with ever-increasing protectionism. Europe was the only one to comply with the agreements; until February it exported 41 million doses to other countries, 9 million for Britain and one for the United States. It is right, therefore, that reciprocity is now demanded, considering the blocking of exports to those countries that do not do the same. Does anyone really think that in such a ruthless market individual states could have done better than an institution that represents 450 million people? To assess how the National Plan is proceeding, really not. And that doesn't just depend on the lack of vaccines. Up to now we have received 10 million doses and we have used just over 8, but above all the percentage of vaccinations among the most fragile people as the over 80s leaves to be desired. Elders who received the first dose range from 66 percent in South Tyrol to just 28 percent in other regions. We know that in certain regions it has been preferred to vaccinate categories less exposed to risk, such as university professors - who have not seen a student for a year - or press workers in hospitals. The irony is that the regions that are having the most problems in organizing the vaccination campaign are being led by the parties to the top of the line against Europe. Problems that not only damage the health of their population, but also the idea of federalism. In front of this indecent spectacle, even a convinced federalist like me is tempted to ask for more intervention from the central state. I must add that, unlike South Tyrol or other countries, in the Italian debate there is no discussion about quick DIY tests, which as we can serve to reopen schools or other places tendingly crowded. President Draghi, the efficiency in testing and vaccinating will not only be the key to saving so many lives, but also to restart the economy and to reaffirm its role in the world. It is clear to everyone that a geopolitical match is also being played on vaccines, as evidenced by the fact that Russia has only vaccinated 4% of its population, but is said to be ready to sell the vaccine to everyone. Therefore, it is good that after Trump the transatlantic alliance with Biden is relaunched, which participates in the summit for collaboration on vaccines as well. The discussion on the green card, in which the cured, tested and vaccinated are inserted, is also good. It must be a uniform project across Europe, which allows the borders to be crossed and with which individual states can give back the freedoms taken away with the pandemic. I believe that criticism of possible discrimination is unfounded. The deprivation of freedom is impossible to move, not in giving back to those who do not represent a danger to themselves and to others the possibility of returning to the full exercise of their essential rights; freedom that we all hope to have back as soon as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u68	FANTETTI (Europeans-MAIE-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I take the floor in this House after eighteen days of covid convalescence, five of which are in sub-intensive therapy. [[Applause]] I would like to thank all the health care workers, the Italians, who have also been recognized in the world as being particularly attentive and effective in the battle that sees us all involved, on behalf of so many citizens who are still fighting. With regard to today's communications, Mr President, Europe's limitations on vaccinations have cost more human lives and are very dear to the economy of the whole Union. The sooner we have vaccinated the population, the greater the majority of it, the more lives we will have saved and the sooner the European economy will be able to leave. Looking at countries like the United States and the United Kingdom, whose governments have committed themselves to vaccinate the totality of the adult population by the beginning of summer, it is clear that the limits of European action in this situation, in particular in the procurement, have been evident. As supported by the Italian Government, our strong support is for European coordination which is a key step towards the implementation of an effective vaccine policy. If we fail to pursue it, given the serious health situation, we should pursue other ways and agree with you, as a Group of Europeans. With regard to the single market and digitisation, we are in favour of a rapid reduction of all obstacles, implemented because of the Covid-19, which hinder free trade in goods and services between the Member States of the Union. The Digital Agenda, the so-called Digital Compass, which aims at a strong digitalisation of Europe by 2030, committing itself to setting targets and timing precisely these days, serves Europe to move towards a new economic and social development projected into the future. New digital technologies will be of great support in areas such as education, the environment and health and will act as a driver for the creation of new jobs. Europe must be the world's protagonist of the digital turning point, because today it will be able to be a leader in sectors that are already very strong today, such as blockchain, quantum computing, artificial intelligence. The Union must speed up the creation of secure network infrastructures and the strengthening of the ultra-wide band, continuing to digitalise public administration at European level, but certainly Italian, becoming easily and finally accessible to citizens. In this sense, among other things, we welcome Minister Colao's commitment to reach a full digitalization of Italy by 2026, four years ahead of the deadline set by Digital Compass in 2030. Colleagues, Europe is fighting for the rights and freedoms of its citizens, for freedom of expression and the protection of their privacy. In this respect, it is necessary to strengthen the powers and action of the European Data Protection Supervisor, on the processing of personal data by the Union, in order to ensure compliance with privacy rules. For this to happen, it is necessary to monitor the new technologies implemented by large multinationals in the digital sector, which can affect data protection. This is in order to avoid, as we already know, that the rules are bypassed in different ways, collecting data without the necessary consent of the users. These data are then passed on to many other companies, for the profitable profiling of users in the world of the ecosystem of advertising, in spite of the privacy rules. Finally, I would like to mention Turkey's attitude. Its interference in the Cyprus region, certainly in violation of international agreements, in addition to the very serious withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention and the unauthorized drilling in the eastern Mediterranean, creates an objective tension in relations between Ankara and the European Union. We Europeans believe that Europe's objective is and should remain cooperation with Turkey, certain that good relations would allow for increased trade, with mutual benefit. Mediation must be undertaken and, in this sense, we believe it is important that the historic harmony between Europe and the United States be reaffirmed in the approach to the issues of that area, that sees us as co-protagonists rather than as drivers, promoting, for example, the multilateral conference on the Eastern Mediterranean, which points out and reaffirm the primacy of international law and full respect for human rights in the countries of the area. Finally, Mr Draghi, you have mentioned some issues which are not on the Council's agenda, but which are of particular importance and have a scenario by 2022. We have just held an event, as a Europeanist-MAIE-Democratic Centre Group, on the theme of strategic importance of nutrition labelling, the so-called Nutrinform Battery. There is a battle going on at European level compared to other alternative systems, which are penalising for Italian agri-food productions of excellence and, ultimately, for consumers. On this we know that the Government is attentive and we will continue to act as a puppet, so that Italian interests are defended at European level. In this sense, we wish you good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u71	RENZI (IV-PSI). Madam President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Undersecretary for European Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that you, Mr Draghi, tomorrow represent Italy at the European Council is good news. It is good news for Italy, but it is also good news for Europe. Anyone who has had the opportunity to attend European meetings at which President Draghi, with other functions, took the floor, remembers the attention that his new colleagues gave him, rightly, for the authoritativeness of his words and for the importance of his role. That authority, from tomorrow it is the authority of Italy, which politically, for reasons of respect for the choice of the President of the Republic, is objectively more cohesive, stronger and more authoritative. It is therefore a good step forward, for all and for all. Moreover, I think I can say that the almost unanimous sharing of his words, both on logistics, when he said that we are already at work to compensate for the delays of the last few months, and on the question of reopenings to be planned in time, beginning with school, represents a further step forward. The question to be asked, then, is what kind of European Union you will see and not what kind of Italy the Europeans will see. Unfortunately, there are lights and shadows, you said so in your speech and we share it. There is a huge step forward on the issue of recovery plan and the ability to respond to the crisis, unlike what happened in 2011, but there is an objective weakness on vaccines, which must be underlined. I say this today, when we leave in Israel, the day after the general elections, but, above all, after the vast majority of citizens start to emerge from the crisis period. And we say this naturally for our English friends, but with a "ahimè" as European citizens for what the United Kingdom has done. Let's be clear, without infinity, especially we who are European pro-Europeans and convinced supporters of the Union: a year ago, the European Union was witnessing the difficulties of Prime Minister Boris Johnson (you will remember: in some cases, even of a personal nature). How much has changed since then! Within eleven months, the extraordinary vaccination capability has made vaccination, paradoxically, a spot for Brexit supporters. I have reason to believe, Mr President, like you and like many of us, that Brexit will be a disaster for the United Kingdom in the medium term: at least we are convinced of that. Today, however, this vaccination campaign objectively marks an important point for Johnson in the anti-European narrative. So the European Union must move. That is why President Draghi's presidency is a very important and interesting element. Obviously, the starting point is that this recognition starts from the United States of America. The presence of Joe Biden at the European Council, although facilitated by new forms of communication or, better, by new forms of discussion (it will, therefore, be a link), is a huge fact. It was, since Bush's time, that a President of the United States did not participate in the European Council, and this happens when the United States has reaffirmed the reasons for multilateralism. This multilateralism, however, is difficult. Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fact that no one or almost anyone is talking about in these hours, not even in the Italian newspapers. It is the meeting between the Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, who in these hours met to prepare a great agreement between Russia and China, which is objectively a challenge to the United States of America and the Atlantic community, with which, with the words of President Draghi in the first intervention in the Senate, we finally reconciled, in a strategic and structural way. It is a difficult passage, because this alliance between Russia and China is underestimated, but it will open a new scenario, especially by entering it into the One Belt One Road platform, and it will, paradoxically, bring the discussion especially in Europe, in the Balkans, where historically we have always suffered, as demonstrated by the history of the twentieth century, the main reasons for friction. So this transition between Russia and China challenges the United States of America and challenges the European Union to be able to respond. Ladies and gentlemen, the first sentence of Anthony Blinken, the US Secretary of State at the NATO summit was a strong criticism of North Stream 2, which in 2015-2016 we, like Italy, tried to fight, but which saw Germany pursue its own interest in part and not a European interest. In short, on these issues, President Draghi, his authority will be important, also as president of the G20, first time for Italy. Then there is the issue of Turkey, which is certainly linked to the Istanbul Convention (the words of the Government in this House are absolutely appreciated), but which poses an issue related to the Mediterranean. In fact, Turkey's strategic plan over the years has been a strategic plan aimed not only at eliminating the European presence, as Senator Casini said, also referring to the shortcomings of other European countries, but it has been a devastating presence, especially in Libya. Now we see some progress that the Government is making in Libya after years of substantial inability. Foreign policy, in fact, is a serious matter. Foreign policy is not to organize a conference to do the photo opportunity to be sent to TG1. Foreign policy is the ability to have a strategic design articulated over the years. In Libya we are playing a piece of the future. On these issues, the European Council is much more than a European Council on a single agenda. It is the renewed relationship between the United States and Europe; it is the presence of a new Italian leader; it is the presence of an Italian leader who leads the G20 and it is the opening of a page where, however, Russia and China are playing a game, of which no one speaks, but which, basically, is a great challenge to everyone and everyone. On these issues, Mr President, in addition to the centrality of the Mediterranean, I would like to reiterate the centrality of Africa. We need to get back to having a strategy for Africa. Rightly, those who follow us from home will say that we need vaccines. Of course, I fully share the views that the Government has expressed in this House today and in the previous days. Surely we need to think about reopenings. However, if we are to have a foreign policy debate that is truly worthy of this name, the issue of Africa is there and we cannot evade it. Then there is the whole theme of the country's centrality in its relationship with the Balkans, which I think are the reference point for the coming years. Mr President, foreign policy has always seen Italy as a bridge, firmly placed in the Atlantic Alliance, but always capable of dialogue. I would like you to be able to take Italy back as a bridge, a bridge to Africa in this G20 presidency. Yesterday I was in Senegal and I met President Macky Sall, who told me, among other things, an incredible fact: when he was young he wanted to come to study in Italy (he was a young leader in growth), but he got the scholarship from the French and not from the Italians, because we have always had a disinterest in the ability to attract young talents. How beautiful it would be if, together with the Minister of the University and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, we could launch a project for a thousand talents a year to bring from Africa, the countries of South-East Asia and South America, to live, in agreement with our European institutions, an opportunity for formation. How beautiful it would be, Mr President, if you could withdraw from the drawer (partly in the last few months) that great Ventotene project that we had launched with Chancellor Merkel and President Hollande, to make Ventotene the island in which to form the new generations, especially in the places where Sandro Pertini lived his border and his imprisonment. [[Applause]] How beautiful it would be, Mr President, if you could be a bridge to the new generations as well. I say this because President Draghi said, in conclusion, that on 9 May, the day of the Conference on the Future of Europe and the Day of the Feast of Europe, will be the time when we will launch the great theme of the new generations and work. Well: May 9, 2021 will be a special day not only because the European Union will be celebrated as always, but because on May 9, 1921 Sophie Scholl, a young Bavarian Catholic, was born; she was one of the martyrs of the anti-Nazi resistance. It would be very nice if, on the centenary of its birth, a white rose philosophically inspired Europe's path to tomorrow. Europe of values and not just Europe of numbers and figures. Good work, Mr. President, Italy Viva is with you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u74	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the floor, because in ten minutes the only political force that is in opposition to this Government will have to try to address all the issues that have echoed in this House, starting from the last, that of Senator Renzi. Among other things, we listened to it without any extra charge, absolutely free of charge. We have been interested in his gaze, in the horizon of Europe and in international problems, but he has carefully skipped the pandemic, on which we, who only have ten minutes, unfortunately have to dwell. Ours, President Draghi, is the voice of those who expect much from his work, but do not have confidence in the sum of the parties that make up his majority, who - legitimately, by charity - have different political positions among themselves, as has also emerged in the debate. I am thinking of the political positions on ius soli, the debitorial folders (first lite), the reopenings. If they are already fighting, Mr Draghi, what will happen in the White Semester, when they will no longer be afraid of the dissolution of Parliament and will they be able to give vent to their substantial differences? We expect a great deal, therefore, not from your Government, but from your personal authority, that you will have to assert above all towards a Europe that has so far been absolutely stepmother towards Italy. Even today, your call to Europeanism is echoed; you said that this is a majority of those who "blah blah" Europe. But we would not want it to be a defence of the status quo of this Europe, which once again, more than in the past, has shown that we need a thorough review of its nature. From the Treaties of Rome onward, Europe had never had a debicicle like the one it showed on the vaccination plan and on the acquisition of vaccines. But do you realize that, because of a mischievous issue of pseudo-saving, which cost the lives of thousands and thousands (perhaps millions, in perspective) of people, we have been overtaken, perhaps for geopolitical reasons too, by States that were outside that Europe that was supposed to be salvific? The United Kingdom of Brexit has practically addressed and solved the problem of vaccines, including Israel. But be careful, because there is a piece of Italy that has more rights than Italians: I speak of the Republic of San Marino. She turned to Sputnik, she took him, and they're all vaccinated. Maybe this Europe couldn't... [[Brusio.]] Mr. President, it doesn't matter. They are still complimenting Senator Renzi; it is right, let them do it, because congratulations after so many criticisms are certainly right. [[Applause]] I say it with affection and sympathy. Okay. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we expect... In addition to soliciting your attention, because we are the opposition and, if you chat with those who are sitting next to you, it is difficult for me to move forward. He didn't even notice what I'm saying. If this is the attention, perhaps some criticism of you too will be able to move it. I was saying, we expect you in Europe to be able to renegotiate, indeed force Europe to renegotiate the contracts for the acquisition of vaccines, coming out of a sort of geopolitics, facing the real possibility - not in words - of the acquisition of other vaccines - I do not want to name, I say all vaccines - that are necessary and indispensable. Mr President, if we wait for General Figlio's excellent plan to appear in its entirety to realize perhaps in June that the 70 million doses planned will not have arrived, or that, if they arrived even less we were not then able to use them fully in Italy, then I believe that there would have been no need of an authoritative person like Dragons. Make your authority stand, otherwise any Count would be fine. If you are here, you must demonstrate your capacity for presence in Europe in defence of Italy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are going to discuss not only pandemics, not just vaccines, but that would be enough to reverse the burden that Italy has not had in Europe. You will talk about other issues: relations with Russia, relations in the Mediterranean, relations with the United States of America, starting with the relationship with Biden, which everyone praised. With regard to Trump, rightly, when he said strange phrases, there was the uprising; but I wonder how it is possible that there is total silence when a man like Biden, before slipping on the flight ladder, declares that the Head of an important state like Russia is a killer. I repeat, in general silence. [[Applause]] But is it possible that no one knows or wants to protest about such things? We expect someone in Europe to say that Sultan Erdogan has made use of his imperial action - which is causing damage not only to Italy in the eastern Mediterranean quadrant, but to the whole of Europe - to France's action, which with its policy has ended up facilitating the penetration of Erdogan in Libya, and thus also to upset the issue of migration and the protection of treaties that would prevent those who do not have the right to cross our borders. We would need someone really to take care of Europe's general interests, which are those that we Europeans more convinced of than others on this we would like to have reserved for the European Union, while the European Union is delighted to set stamps that want to penalise the products of Made in Italy. Mr President, we have confidence in your authority, but we have no hope that this will really change relations within the European Union if you do not take it seriously. In order for you to take responsibility for this, we need this Parliament to express itself clearly, for example, from the recovery plan. President, please listen to me: we are discussing Conte's plan. Before the recovery plan becomes final, go back to the Senate because we want to understand what this project is going to be. Otherwise, it will happen that, once again, we will pass from Christmas to Easter, from Easter to Christmas, continuing with unnecessary sacrifices because the closures that you promised to stop will remain so. We hope that this will not happen, that its authority will surpass the quarrelsomeness of its majority and that in Europe it will do something that we have always hoped for: its change and not its annulment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u75	Senator La Russa, I'm just making a point. At the very beginning of your speech - you know that we are on live television - there was a passage from the third to the second channel. I checked and didn't miss anything about your speech. I wanted to say that because I checked it out. It was my personal scrupulousness. I did not want to open a debate; it was just a clarification because we are voting in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u78	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, let me make one point. I don't complain because I know it's random. The only opposition force there is really unlucky because both times that President Draghi came to the Senate to report, the change of channel concerned Brothers of Italy. Surely the case is fierce against the only opposition force. The case. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u79	I checked just to make sure there weren't any malfunctions. We will try to improve these links.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u82	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, we wish President Draghi every success in the European Council. It is important to vote in favour of the Democratic Party and - I hope - as many colleagues as possible because we obviously play an important game: Italy is the protagonist in the construction of a new Europe. We don't start from scratch. With the previous Government, thanks to the work of Minister Amendola, Minister Gualtieri, Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri, we managed to bring Italy back to be a protagonist and no longer isolated in Europe. We saw it on what seemed impossible until recently, almost a dream, that is, the idea of building Eurobonds, an embryo of European debt, with guarantees based on own resources, growing, something that until recently was unthinkable. It is a success built with the protagonism of the Democratic Party, the previous Government and the parties that composed the previous majority. I start from here, because it is clear that one of the main issues concerns Europe as a fundamental, extraordinary and original tool in addressing the major international challenges. With the rhetoric of the small patriots we are not going anywhere; we could never have faced the pandemic and in a moment of crisis as this is felt even more. As we have seen, in fact, the decision at the end of January to issue a European regulation, which allowed Italy and you, President, to make an important decision for the first time and therefore to deny the authorisation to export vaccines at an extraordinary stage (we would never have wanted to do so) towards a country that did not need it (data in Australia show this), gives a sense of what it means to have Europe behind us, of how we can really exercise sovereignty when we are able to face it on an appropriate scale. Addressing it at European level means being effective, being at the side of the citizens. We also see this on the subject of green certificates. I think it is important to start the trust framework, which allows us - and we know how important it is for a country like ours, which must share and invest in tourism - to have a tool for free and secure movement. We know that we will return to life and return to normal when we can give certainty to our citizens that they can move because they will finally be vaccinated. I must say that, in this regard, we appreciated the passage you made on the need for harmonisation of the work of the regions and compliance with the criteria. I come from Lombardy and I feel very clearly the need to have univocal governance, to avoid having first-class and second-class citizens, from Lazio to Lombardy. There's a difference. [[Applause]] I am proud to be Lombard; I am a little less proud to see what has happened these days, so we must apologize to the citizens. Even if we do not govern, we apologise, from this Parliament, because what is happening is unacceptable. We must ensure equal rights and equal treatment for all. [[Applause]] As I have heard from my fellow Members, I think that the signal of the return of the United States from a multilateral perspective is an important fact and you did well to stress it in your passage: the presence of Biden opens a new perspective and a new era. It is clear that four years have passed, so it is good that Europeans have moved forward. The concept of strategic autonomy is also positive, not only on defence, as we see on vaccines: the issue of vaccination diplomacy in the first period was really worrying. It is important to be able to influence the construction of a new international order, where China plays its part and legitimately sets out a project like the Belt and road initiative, which is certainly not just a commercial and economic project, but has the ambition to redesign international relations. The way we are responding and investing in the Covax project within the World Health Organization is a strong signal of how the United States, which is part of multilateralism, can find allies in us Europeans, to rebuild that order that allows us (also in Italy) to be protagonists from a multilateral perspective. We therefore welcome the initial message you launched to return to the Paris Agreement by the United States (probably propaedeutic also to the resumption of negotiations on the Iranian Nuclear Agreement), the return of key players to the United Nations system, the possibility of negotiating in a different way - it will be one of the points on the agenda - on the subject of digital taxation in comparison with big tech and large online platforms. Having Europe side by side is crucial and fundamental in one of the strategic games we have to play. So no longer as before, based on the relationships of force; Macron tries to open the file of the web tax, start the duties and via mutual reprisals: we no longer get out. The relationship with the United States is therefore fundamental. I would therefore like to focus briefly on Turkey and Russia. Mr President, we have appreciated the passage on the Istanbul Convention. I say this because previous governments lead Democratic Party [[Applause]] , thanks to that Convention, they have invested in unprecedented legislative innovation and we have done so by bringing standards of civilisation to the protection of women and against gender violence. We ask you, who have already said clear words, to bring our voice to Europe so that Turkey can become part of that Convention again and also to condition future collaborations on the fact that those rights, which are part of our identity, are respected. Finally, since we are going to talk about the relationship with Turkey and Russia, I am introducing a subject which has not been touched on, but which is particularly dear to us and to our country's foreign policy. I am referring to the relationship with Libya: thanks also to the work we have done together, we are witnessing a new phase in Libya, a political dialogue that has led to the formation of the new Dbeibah government. I think we need to help and the best way to do this is to explain to Turkey and Russia that they must respect the agreements and withdraw the troops from Libya, the only way to start a truly lasting transition. [[Applause]] From this point of view, Europe can be a protagonist and the relationship with the United States is fundamental. Mr President, good luck with this passage; we will be at your side. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u85	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for the punctuality of your communications on the eve of such an important meeting, such as the European Council. Thank you, Mr President, also for reminding us of a basic principle: after a year of the outbreak of the world pandemic, we cannot continue to ask for sacrifices from the women and men of our country in relation above all to an issue that is even unnatural for the human soul, namely the zeroing of the sphere of social relations and economic sacrifices - we are talking about the material conditions of people - without in return there being the indisputable clarity of how we come out of this crisis and this tunnel. Our fellow citizens and our citizens do not propose a currency for exchange, but a new social pact on which the relationship between institutions and citizens must be based, without which we cannot procrastinate a framework of rules that would otherwise not be understood and accepted. From this point of view, Mr President, the emphasis you have made is very important. We must feel the urgency of this passage, because, as mentioned in the previous speeches, we are all equal in the face of the fear of illness and pandemics, but - to quote the poetic expression of an important Neapolitan mask - it is not a level in its effects. The pandemic has produced and is producing devastating effects on the ground of the opening of the inequality scissors in our country, but not only. We must put this point at the centre, it must be our obsession and inform the action of the Government and Parliament. People tell us that they are willing to accept a new framework of rules, but they want to know when and how they will come out of the condition that we are living. This must be our responsibility. I make three points, although I don't have much time. Of course, I am referring to certain passages which you yourself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have emphasized very strongly. The first is that there are responsibilities of states and their joints - I come back in a few seconds - on the issue of the distribution and administration of vaccines. However, there are responsibilities that, although not at the head of the states, but the pharmaceutical companies (so we are talking about private companies), have a huge impact on the ground of the credibility of the institutions: people take it out on us and not on the pharmaceutical companies. We must be aware of this, so we must do everything and everything that will be in our power, so that there is also a sanction mechanism for pharmaceutical companies. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you were right to be the protagonist of a denial action in relation to AstraZeneca's exports to Australia under existing rules (EU Implementing Regulation No 111 of 2021). We must make the rules that exist and perhaps even imagine new ones, because we cannot think of getting out of this condition considering that the issue we are dealing with is related to one good as another. Public health is not as good as any other, so even all the players involved, starting with companies that have the responsibility to produce and make vaccines available, must follow a rule that cannot be that of the market. There is little to do, we are aware of the relationship between research efforts and the rate of remuneration that this should have. However, there are two things that we cannot fail to consider: the first is that in those research efforts States also contribute with considerable resources; the second is that we are talking about a global pandemic. I have heard of geopolitics and soft power acted through vaccine policy, it is useless to hide it. Very well, if Europe wants to do something like a world superpower, it will play a leading role in the discussion within it and within the World Trade Organisation of the derogation from agreements on trade aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS) on vaccines. There is little to do, in fact, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: we can also cover the whole population of the richest countries, but if this coverage does not concern the entire world population, we simply do not get out of this tunnel and that is a great truth that we must tell ourselves. [[Applause]] Secondly, it touched on the sensitive issue of the regions, which was also mentioned by my previous colleague: there are some who are vaccinating lawyers and keeping fragile and elderly people apart. [[Applause]] ; there are others who have vaccines available, but they forget to call the vacciners, starting with the elderly (and this is the case with Lombardy). Mr President, this situation is no longer tolerable, because there is an issue that concerns the National Health Service and a debate that we need to have right away, not to be postponed. It is true that in some regions we are strong and that on the ground of hospitalization there are centres of excellence, but there are others that have completely dismantled the medicine of territory, and this is a great theme. Then there is a question of institutional architecture: it is no longer conceivable an institutional Babel such for which each Region does what it wants. Such a situation is no longer tolerable. Then that stuff has nothing to do with autonomy, which is an important principle; what we have witnessed is rather regional centralism that needs to be overcome and we must also take advantage of this emerging situation to immediately reflect on this ground. Finally, the subject of the Istanbul Convention and Turkey has already been mentioned and is heartfelt, as can be seen from cross-cutting interventions. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have also made a point of emphasis with appropriate adjectives in relation to Turkey's exit from this Convention, from this important Treaty. The previous speaker is right in saying that we must link, in the next steps, cooperation and financial linking operations to the possibility that Turkey will be included in this Convention. As Italians and Europeans, Mr President, we must be at the forefront of the defence of civil rights, but we must also be aware that much more needs to be done than we have done so far. Even in our country there is still a disparity between women and men in terms of wages and opportunities for access, which is likely to widen precisely in the era of the pandemic. A lot has been said about DAD: the funny thing is that "dad " in English means dad; well, you write "dad" but you read "mom." That's the risk we're taking in this country. Let us help women and reduce this gap, because it risks widening irreparably. We propose these reflections to you and we think that it can bring them, with great authority, within and in the heart of Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u88	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). Mr Draghi, in view of the European Council, at which you will be working for the return to normality of our continent, I would like to thank you for the change of pace you have just made to the way in which the country was facing the health and economic emergency caused by the pandemic. The rapid replacement of some figures removed from key roles responsible for an ineffective and often intransparent management of the crisis, the new approach in addressing the many critical issues that unfortunately characterize this historical phase and the firmness with which it has taken delicate decisions, such as that of blocking exports of over 250,000 vaccines departing to Australia, have met our appreciation. It is necessary to speed up the vaccination plan, using every possible measure, correcting the decompensation between the regions and filling the accumulated delays. That is why, Mr President, we are on the same page. While waiting for the maximum possible vaccine coverage, allow me, however, to return to you the prayer of many basic doctors who, after a year, await national guidelines from the State for the home treatment of the Covid-19. Even in this case, in fact, the regions go in scattered order. However, if all patients were promptly treated effectively at home, the number of patients hospitalized could be reduced, Mr President. So we need a single protocol on treatment, so many people ask. The watchful expectation or paracetamol recommended by the Ministry of Health in a circular of November 30 last year may be good for young people, but older people must be able to take care of themselves immediately at home, before the situation precipitates. We also know that we are working on a unique platform for booking vaccines. I therefore ask you to intervene to ensure that in all regions you can safely vaccinate non-residents, so-called out-of-office students, workers and the elderly, who must not be forced to change their homes or - worse - to face travel at their own expense, with all the risks involved, only in order to benefit from their own right. In the war against the virus, we are not fighting alone, but in the direction outlined by the European Union. Since the vaccination campaign started, however, the United States or countries such as the United Kingdom and Israel have shown that it can be done faster and better than Europe. So we have to work to make up for lost time. More vaccination doses are needed and it is necessary to recall the pharmaceutical companies that produce vaccines to comply with the commitments made. AstraZeneca, for example, did not respect even a quarter of the scheduled deliveries. More investment is needed to increase European production. We want a more enterprising and less-anticipated Europe. While the European Union has exported around 10 million doses to Britain, the United Kingdom has sent nothing and it certainly is now necessary to act firmly. In defining contracts for the purchase of vaccines, the Union has not invested enough. You, Mr President, did not want to be controversial and I understand you, but the Union was the protagonist of too timid negotiation and of a prudently bureaucratic and at times unclear approach, simply forcing large multinationals to do their best, without defining any clause on patents and technologies. It is therefore necessary to make Europe self-sufficient in the production of vaccines, including through public-private partnership instruments. In the meantime, we need efficiency and speed on the part of the EMA in the procedures for approving vaccines already authorised and available outside the European Union, so that we can rely on diversification of sources of supply. Mr Draghi, tomorrow's European Council will be an important opportunity to take stock of the situation with other countries on what has not gone and on how to proceed to correct the mistakes made. We expect clear decisions, but if not, we ask you, with your authority, for the courage of autonomous choices, starting from the direct purchase of vaccines from the manufacturers, in the sign of a pragmatic Europeanism that will be able to open the door to a new course in the name of greater decision-making, so that Europeanism will not be reduced to a mere delegation to Europe, but will be enriched and fed by the contribution of individual Member States. The objective must be to equip itself to start a genuine mass vaccination, even with the involvement of private individuals, without ideological preclusions, and also by purchasing vaccines such as Sputnik, without making it a geopolitical issue. We also hope that the European Commission will extend the relaxation of the constraints of the Stability Pact for 2022, which you referred to earlier, we also hope that we can work in Europe to extend the derogation from State aid legislation by another year. The temporary rules on State aid, if applied to economic realities of some importance and in particularly disadvantaged socio-economic contexts, can prove to be very valuable. For example, the Temporary framework could extend the decontribution for companies in the South by a further year. This would give new oxygen to many entrepreneurs who, with courage, decided to invest in the Mezzogiorno, despite the many difficulties. In addition, it would also compensate for the sharp decline in public investment that has hit the South in recent years and which you yourself pointed out yesterday, stigmatizing what I have been denouncing for a long time, namely the severe under-utilisation of the Development and Cohesion Fund, of which only a little more than 6% has been spent. Finally, Mr Draghi, with a view to the Conference on the Future of Europe on 9 May, a symbolic date, it will be essential to reaffirm the importance of reforming the European Union by overcoming the intergovernmental method and unanimous decisions (i.e. the power of veto by a few) to the advantage of the Community method, which is valuable in order to take more quickly sensitive decisions in a globalised world where national economies are increasingly interdependent and communications of immediacy never before experienced. Mr Draghi, the items on the agenda of tomorrow's European Council are many and challenging. In announcing our vote in favour of the motion for a majority resolution which we shall be voting on shortly, we wish you good work and we invite you to continue your commitment in the wake of that change of pace which justified the birth of this Government. As far as we're concerned, we will continue to work and work with you and your Executive to get the country out of the emergency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u89	Before continuing with the explanations of vote, I communicate, for complete information, that at the beginning of the intervention of Senator Giammanco we went from the second to the third channel of RAI.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u92	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I expect you to tell me at the end of what channel we are going on. However, I would like to thank for the patience of those who are following us from home, zapping with the remote control. Mr Draghi, thank you for the conciseness, for the precision and for putting at the centre what interests 60 million Italians. Let us return to the center the merit, which means rewarding those who do good and punishing those who hurt. Anyone who cares about the fate of Europe must point out that someone has made a mistake, and it is a serious mistake on the skin and on the health of the citizens, so we expect someone in Brussels to pay for mistakes that have had dramatic consequences. You can't just ignore it. [[Applause]] It is not possible that the United Kingdom, which had to die of loneliness, is vaccinating 800,000 people a day; it is not possible that San Marino, in the heart of our country, vaccinated a third of the population, taking vaccines from any country. It is not possible that Israel is ahead. By the way, that it comes from my Group - and I think it is from the whole House - a wish for good work to the next Israeli Government, and I hope to Bibi Netanyahu, who is an example of peace, security, respect, tolerance and pride there. [[Applause.]] As far as Europe is concerned, we want one that puts values and rights at the centre, but not just economic values. When we talk about Israel, I dream of a Europe that will once and for all take the right side, because between Israel and Iran we are with democracy, peace, civilization and law. Today is the anniversary of the horrible massacre of the Ardeatine pits, which we must honor and remember, so that we never see such an act of ferocity again; it must not be worth less other acts of ferocity that are happening unpunished in other parts of the world - and I am thinking of the physical and cultural massacre of the Uyghurs people in China - because there is no economic relationship that holds, when there is between the values and the lives of human beings. [[Applause]] Mr Draghi, it is right that you try in the miracle of bringing the Turkish regime back to good conduct, but I recall that that regime also cancels not only the rights of women, but all kinds of freedom (even the historical truth); until justice is given to the Armenians with the recognition of genocide, I do not think that you can sit at the same table as someone who puts in jail those who dare to remember the historical truth. [[Applause]] We were talking about a Europe, Mr President, which is about well-being, work, health and the right to happiness included in the Declaration of Independence of the United States, not that of the Bolkestein directive or the Nutri-Score directive: hands off the Italian beaches, the Mediterranean diet, the work, the effort and the sacrifices of our fishermen and farmers. [[Applause]] Rather, we focus on the fair competition of web giants, because someone in this year of pandemic has earned billions and trillions. It is not possible for companies, craftsmen, Italian and European traders to face unfair economic and fiscal competition from multinationals that sell - and sometimes exploit - in Italy and Europe to go and pay taxes elsewhere. [[Applause.]] If, therefore, it succeeds in placing fair competition with web giants at the heart of the European agenda, it will be given historic credit from this point of view. Of course, Mr President, a Europe that, at the time of its birth, denied its roots, its history and its Jewish-Christian foundations starts badly, because you cannot welcome anyone else if you are ashamed and deny your identity and your origins. [[Applause.]] I wonder if we can't start again in a more positive way. As for Russia and China, I have heard other colleagues talk about good relations: attention, good relations; at this time, however, science should prevail over political reasoning. He has done well, like the German Chancellor Angela Merkel, to urge the European Medicines Agency to respond to the Sputnik vaccine; if it works, use it; it is not possible to wage political and geopolitical wars on the part of Italian and European citizens: this is certainly not acceptable. [[Applause.]] In Libya it is necessary to return protagonists, because the data updated to yesterday - as my colleague Iwobi remembered - give a doubling of the irregular and controlled landings in our country. I say this to some of my colleagues in this Parliament, with all due respect: because that is why we have chosen to support it with conviction, we will always try to look after the things that unite us and not those that divide us; all the more so, before we talk about ius solo, we return to defending and protecting the borders of this country, because first we defend the ground and then we consider how to broaden its citizenship rights. [[Applause]] With regard to China, as we said, freedom is not a negotiable right, but also responsibility; therefore, good relations with everyone, but we await the day when an independent international court will call the Chinese Communist Republic to respond to the contagion it has spread around the world, with its omissions, its lies, its silences and its delays. [[Applause]] You, Mr Draghi, have the authority to put Italy at the centre of economic, migratory, identity and demographic policies. Italy is the third-last country in Europe for demographic growth: I hope that it runs on the path of the single cheque for what concerns children, because a country that does not invest in its children and children that are born is destined to die. I assume you have the authority to put these priorities back at the centre. And then the word that warmed the hearts, not only ours, but - I think - of the whole country that is following, is "repeature" and return to life: Mr. President, we schedule and plan a path to give back to the Italians the right to live, to study, to love and to work. The most efficient support decree is to reopen shops, restaurants and sports, cultural and educational activities, otherwise we will never make it. [[Applause]] Thank you for putting the children and families at the center, with the reopening immediately after Easter - this is the goal we are working on, to God pleasing and health conditions allowing - kindergartens and nursery and primary schools. We're taking the future away from our children and our children. [[Applause]] So he did well to put this issue at the centre. Then one watches the news in the evening and gets depressed, because yesterday they explained to us that the Germans should be locked in the house until April 18. Now, countercompañeros; Chancellor Merkel said: no lockdown until April 18, let's go back, let's reopen and, on the contrary, let's approve a budget deviation of 60 billion euros. Here, Mr. Draghi, we have worked on the decree of support and on what we have inherited, for the two months, from the past government. On the next budgetary deviation - I quote your words during a speech last summer - you cost what you cost and everything you need to do - we do not save on the next deviation. [[Applause]] If Germany puts 60 billion in it, we have the right to do the same. Speaking of vaccination plan, it is right to ask for equal rights for everyone and I wonder why the elderly in Tuscany should be the last for vaccination coverage in Italy. [[Applause]] What have the over 80s in Tuscany done wrong to be bypassed by politicians and other categories not particularly at risk? So, before you make a fuss, look into your home, because on the health of our grandparents you can't and you don't have to joke. There's no need for the vaccine's smarties. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u95	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the 5 Star Movement today will be voting in favour of the majority motion for a resolution, but it must be clear that governing means dealing with reality. I want to begin my speech with this phrase, which seems obvious, but never sterile and I do so for two reasons. Firstly, I believe that all the Members who preceded me this morning have offered a piece of reality and it is up to you, Mr President-in-Office, to put them all together. The second order of reasons is that he will remember how, a few weeks ago, his entry into politics was greeted by newspapers and televisions with almost fidelistic tones, as if it were the coming of the savior or of a modern demiurge, who would do everything that others had not been able to do. We also joked about this, because it is a defect and a limit all Italians. We all know, however, here, that those who govern cannot but deal with reality, that today tells us that, unfortunately, in the world there are five people who die for Covid every minute, five Regions that still have intensive therapies under pressure an important North Region that has been in a state of chaos for more than a year and fails to get out and a plan to vaccinate that struggles to take off. Above all, Mr Draghi, Europe risks being put under check by the profit logic of four pharmaceutical companies, and this is something the Italian Parliament cannot accept! [[Applause]] We cannot tolerate it or allow it, because governing means dealing with reality, which is this. Mr President, I agree that there is a policy that yesterday was growling because the shops were closed and today, which still are, it does not growl anymore. [[Applause]] ; agree that there are newspapers that used to complain, because the amount of refreshment was low, and now that they have remained essentially the same, they do not complain [[Applause]] But, Mr Draghi, apart from all these pirouettes of thought, it is true that the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic are bound to be devastating if vaccinations are not rapidly accelerated globally (and I stress this, Mr President). The pharmaceutical companies must respect the agreements made with the European Union, because vaccines are good for everyone and not a bargain for a few people. [[Applause]] That is what Italy must say in Brussels. An immediate review of the mechanism for controlling and blocking the export of vaccines should therefore be carried out, and the reaction should also be triggered for non-compliance with the intermediate deadlines. We understand these gentlemen's little game: getting close to the deadline. A temporary suspension of the Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement on patents should be carried out. We then asked her for courage, because this is a historic moment when it is needed. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which represents the 37 richest countries in the world, through the World Bank, acquires patents and gives them to the poorest countries in the world. That's what we're asking! A world pandemic cannot be eliminated by vaccination only of the richest people on earth. [[Applause]] It cannot be eliminated in this way, because so we do not go far and the Movimento 5 Stars wants to go far. We must continue to dictate the European political agenda, as we have done with the Count Government, to improve the ability to think forward and to draw a lasting framework for reference, because no one in this House, dear senators and dear senators, knows how long we will have to continue to support the liquidity of those who have lost a job or those companies that would have been healthy, if there were no pandemic. The companies that survive today thanks to subsidies, however, Mr Draghi, next year must be able to compete with their foreign competitors, but in order to do so they must have a country behind them in the midst of a process of innovation and digitisation. Only then will they be able to fight equally. The European Council, Mr President, will discuss the fundamental priorities and examine the so-called digital compass, as you said. Well: Italy is urgent to approve the package of proposals for digital services presented by the European Commission on 15 December. We free up the full potential of digital technologies to achieve climate neutrality first. Let us continue on this courageous path with energy decarbonisation and the development of innovative technologies in the renewable energy sector. Ladies senators and senators, after the end of the pandemic, our life will be completely different. We have to start thinking about it. Many works will disappear, many will come to light. They will change our habits, our market, our economies, our way of travel and our transport. Behind the digital and ecological transition, however, there is a lot of work for our young people and for our women. There are industries that will finally be modern, durable and fast, because focusing on sustainable development and respect for biodiversity will simply mean creating new jobs and new jobs for our young people and our women, who you put at the centre of your speech this morning, and we appreciated that. Outside, however, the race abroad and to the new markets has already begun and we cannot risk remaining behind. So on these new companies, on this new way of doing business and on these new jobs it will be possible, finally, to give Italy a future of prosperity. Turkey respects the inviolable rights of man: no to the logic of opposing blocs, but Turkey respects the Constitutional Charter and the inviolable rights of the citizen! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u97	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u98	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, yesterday we tried to file a resolution to give the President of the Council an address for the next meeting of the European Council. We have learned that, although it was to be presented yesterday and therefore to be number 1, it was presented as third today. The importance of the order of presentation to you is certainly known, because of course it determines the order of the vote and may preclude subsequent resolutions. This I tried to say today, speaking on the order of business, but it prevented me, inviting us to study. I certainly welcome your invitation, because studying is an important thing for everyone, and, in turn, I call on you to be impartial and democratic, as your important role as President of the Senate dictates. Having said that, when I turn to the President-in-Office's speech today, I note the vagueness of many of the things he has said about the very important items on the agenda of the European Council. I note that he has not said anything about the need to publish contractual clauses on vaccine supplies, and Italy should take a position on this in Europe. He did not say anything about what he would expect of those who were wrong in Europe. He didn't say anything about the deepenings he should expect or the complaining bureaucratic delays on the validation of the Sputnik vaccine. He said nothing, or little, about the vaccination certificates and licences, in particular how Italy will claim that privacy is respected and that there is no discrimination against those who are not yet vaccinated. With regard to foreign policy and, in particular, geopolitical relations with Russia, he did not say anything about Italy's position in Europe on sanctions against the Russian Federation. In view of this generality, "The alternative is there" will vote in favour of the resolution tabled and will abstain on all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u99	Senator Crucioli, you have the attitude of someone who wants to skip the line. You don't skip the line here. You were third, you introduced him this morning, so you couldn't override Senator Fattori or Senator Paragon.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u101	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u102	FACTORS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in our motion for a resolution we asked for three things. Firstly, the suspension of the TRIPs agreements, in order to allow the distribution of vaccines and the activation of research, which is provided for in Article 9 (3) and (4) of the Marrakesh Agreement, which constituted the WTO, provided that there is a justification based on exceptional circumstances. You said 'no' at the first point in our motion for a resolution, without even asking for reformulation and without even coming to talk to us. This is very serious. What emerging circumstances are more serious than 3 million dead? What are you waiting for to take this position? The second point concerned the transparency of trade agreements with pharmaceutical companies. You said "no" without asking for reformulations and without coming to talk to us. The third point was to implement an additional pharmacovigilance, suggested by the WHO, not by the Italian Left, and you said "no"; this would allow to monitor the adverse effects without making extemporaneous political decisions on the suspension of vaccines. Saying "no" to these three things is very serious. At this point you don't have to explain it to me, because there's no more time. I would have come to talk to you and accepted reformulations; but you did not want to do so. So you have to explain to the citizens why you say "no" to transparency, security and patent suspension; you have to explain it to the citizens when there is another wave. The majority motion for a resolution calls for the suspension of TRIPs agreements, taking into account the balance between the protection of intellectual property and universal access to vaccines. What balance can there be between the profits of the few and the health of the entire world population? You have to explain it to me. Shame on you! [[Applause]] This is the testimony of the hypocrisy of this Government, which did not even want to call for a reformulation of an opposition motion for a resolution, because you are all together passionately, without considering the needs of the citizens. I shall therefore vote 'yes' to our motion for a resolution, because it is safety, transparency and public health. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u104	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u105	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, allow me to quote you. I will not go easy on you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. With this motion for a resolution we have not asked you to eliminate capitalism, which is the basis of this situation of global pandemic and socio-economic crisis. No, we didn't ask him. But you, on 10 March 2021, went to Europe to contradict the position of the House, which had expressed itself in relation to the TRIPs, and you also contradicted the regulation that already provides, in case of serious need, to suspend the TRIPs. What we read in the majority's motion for a resolution is a mortification of the scope of the request, because - as my colleague has said - a definition that wants to protect intellectual property, which is already in fact mentioned here, is superfluous. I wonder why you wanted this government without a defined political area. Why did you put Parliament in a position to be unable to work? I asked him for it in an explanation of vote on trust and I come back to ask for it now, because this is his specific responsibility. As far as Turkey is concerned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to appeal to you. There is a rumor that the citizen Abdullah Öcalan is dead. Because of the lack of reliable information on the current situation, the Kurdish people and their friends are deeply concerned. The Council of Europe Torture Prevention Committee, in its report of August 2020, confirmed our concerns regarding Öcalan's inhumane detention status. I would ask that in Europe on the 25th of this month, that is, tomorrow, you also raise this issue, which I had the opportunity to bring to the attention of the President of the Chamber Roberto Fico on 3 March, asking him to make it known to the Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio. However, we still have no answer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u107	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u108	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I was pleasantly surprised by Senator Emma Bonino's political attack on the European Commission and its President Ursula von der Leyen, as I heard heavy accusations against Brussels. Let's see how sincere you are. I have proposed to this House a resolution which commits the Government to officially demanding the resignation of Mrs von der Leyen, whose inadequacy and irresponsibility are obvious. Be careful not to repeat the mistake when you covered up then President Junker and his tax magic in favor of the multinationals. If it is true, Mr Draghi, that Europe has called the Covid emergency an unprecedented challenge, then responsibilities must have names and surnames. Hiding the negotiations with the drug giants is scandalous. "Big pharma" is stronger than Europe because Europe suffers a subdiction towards multinational power, from vaccines to food. With the Nutri-Score the TTIP traps fall from the window. Without transparency there is no democracy; and if there is no transparency, what digital certificates are you talking about? Before issuing pseudo-passports, you must bring in Parliament the desecrated contracts and annexes of the case, otherwise your passes will be yet another act of force of the neoliberal Leviathan. The closure of schools is the most obvious and dramatic shock we are experiencing. His hope of opening schools after Easter is already devious in the assumption. You just have to open them, period, because there is no relationship between contagions and lessons. Enough with the DAD: you're ruining an entire generation of children and teenagers. You left Italian families in a bleak loneliness. You told us that the success of the Erasmus generation is a son of Europe, while the depression of the lockdown generation is an orphan of those responsible, like all the defeats. You have failed on masks, vaccines, refreshments, and generous trust in Europe. Either you are poor or we have a problem: the first is called von der Leyen.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u109	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I call on Senator Fattori and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). What's going on? Didn't you vote? Have you had any problems with your tablets? Then I'll cancel the vote. Let's put the tablets back on. I call on Senator Fattori and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Paragone and Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Crucioli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 4, tabled by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, Romeo, Bernini, De Petris, Pharaoh, Fantetti and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I would remind you that the Conference of Leaders is now convened. I am suspending the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.09 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 1 April. Tuesday, March 30, at 16.30, will be discussed the bill delegated to the Government for the single and universal cheque, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the discussion of the measure, three hours were allocated to the Groups, including explanations of vote. Amendments will have to be tabled no later than 12 noon on Friday 26 March. On Wednesday 31 March, at 9.30 a.m., the decree-law on the exercise of the profession of lawyer, for which three hours were allocated among the Groups, excluding explanations of vote, will be discussed when concluded by the Commission. On Wednesday afternoon 31 March, from 4 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., and Thursday 1 April, from 9.30 a.m., the report of the European Union's budget and policy committees on the proposal for a National Recovery and Resilience Plan will be discussed. A total of seven hours was allocated for discussion of the document, including explanations of vote. The Conference of Leaders will meet again at 3 p.m. on Tuesday 30 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u111	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 1 April: [[Tuesday, March 30, h 16,30 - Draft law n. 1892 and connected - Delegation to the Government for the single and universal cheque (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the quorum)]] [[Wednesday, March 31 h. 9,30-19,30 - Drawing of law n. 2133 - Decree-Law n. 31, Enabling the practice of the profession of lawyer (final vote by April 14) (expires on May 12) (where concluded by the Commission) - Report of the Commissions reunited 5th and 14th on the Proposal for a National Recovery and Resilience Plan (from 4 p.m. on Wednesday 31 March) Thursday 1st April h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 1892 and related (Delegation to the Government for the Single and Universal cheque) must be submitted by 12 noon on Friday 26 March. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 2133 (Decree-Law No 31, Enabling the practice of the profession of lawyer) will be fixed in relation to the work of the Commission. Time distribution for discussion of draft law n. 1892 and related (Delegation to the Government for the single and universal cheque) [[Rapporteurs 15' Government 15' Groups 3 hours, including explanations of vote, of which: M5S 31' L-SP-PSd'Az 28' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 26' PD 20' FdI 21' IV-PSI 15' Europeanists-MAIE-CD 13' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 12' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law No 2133 (Decree-Law No 31, Enabling the practice of the profession of lawyer) [[Rapporteurs 15' Government 15' Groups 3 hours, excluding explanations of vote, of which: M5S 31' L-SP-PSd'Az 28' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 26' PD 20' FdI 21' IV-PSI 15' Europeanists-MAIE-CD 13' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 12' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the 5th and 14th Commission Report on the Proposal for a National Recovery and Resilience Plan (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 30' Groups 6 hours and 30 minutes, of which: M5S 1 h 8' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h FIBP-UDC 53' Mixed 50' PD 44' FdI 40' IV-PSI 32' Europeanists-MAIE-CD 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 27' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u114	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, since I was taken up today by the President, I would ask that we be able to reply in accordance with Rule 66 (2) of the Rules of Procedure to explain what happened, which is soon said. I asked to speak because yesterday, together with four other Members, we tried to table a resolution which: as we know, the order of deposit determines the order of votes, which is important in order to avoid the risk of foreclosure if a contrary resolution is voted on first. Despite this attempt, for reasons we are verifying, the resolution has not been filed. But that is not the point. I asked to speak in order to inform the House that this problem had occurred: a deposit made on a day was deposited on the following day, with all the result. Although I asked to speak on the order of business, I was removed from the floor and the President subsequently said that I had the attitude of those who wanted to move forward. Since that is not the reason why I have spoken, I would like to specify it and I would also like to say that this misunderstanding shows even more the opportunity that the request for authorisation and recognition of our component is to be assessed quickly. If we had been recognized at least as a component, everything that happened probably would not have happened. In this case, we would have the right to a representative of the component who could have been more institutionally interfaced with both the Group and the Presidency. Therefore, since this request has been pending for some time and since at the last meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure there has been a mere postponement, I again ask you, through you, to possibly arrive at a decision on the recognition of 'the alternative', which would be the only component or, in any case, an organized component of opposition. I believe that there is a great need to be able to speak in Parliament in a dialectic between majority and opposition, which seems to me a little compressed lately.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u115	Senator Crucioli, I tell you that it is not my responsibility to recognize the component, which belongs to another role that is not currently mine. However, I will tell the President what you have said that he will know about it. On the other hand, as far as the resolution is concerned, from information I have acquired, it was the third in temporal order of presentation. It was therefore scheduled and included in the vote exactly with reference to the time when it was transposed by the House, which - as far as I know - was, however, this morning. For the rest, I refer you to the offices in charge.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u118	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, in the Apulian institutes under the Ministry of Culture, 25 workers are on the verge of dismissal after almost twenty years of service. These are the employees of Nova Apulia, a concessionary company for public services, including ticket offices, the National Archaeological Museum of Taranto, Castel del Monte, the Swabian Castle of Bari, the Swabian Castle of Trani, the National Archaeological Museum of Gioia del Colle and the Museum and Archaeological Park of Egnazia. The silence reigns supreme, while the failure of the concessionaire in the management of those sites is attributed to the dismantling of the ticket offices and services to the public, actually caused by the attitude of an official within the administration and made public by a decision of the Court of Auditors. Otherwise, in the Museum of Taranto the employees of Nova Apulia were recovered, until March 17, of the eighteen days of concession frozen because of the DPCM of 3 November 2020, which imposed the closure of the museums throughout the national territory. After twenty years of work, no right is guaranteed to this staff, not even the hope of being included with the social clause in the invitation to tender that the directors of the aforementioned institutions will be forced to ban sooner or later. They are highly qualified professionals who, with their families, are thrown in the middle of a road and for this reason, on March 12, they protested in Bari. What do the minister who isn't there, Dario Franceschini, and the director-general who isn't there, Massimo Osanna? The right to work, guaranteed by the Constitution, has become a useless lie; a chimera for these workers who, while the reality is the precariousness implemented precisely by the State, ask loudly to be internalized. Users do not know that those who provide them with information, record reservations, take care of the ticket office and the teaching of a museum is not a state employee, but a worker who is overqualified and titled, but precarious and underpaid. They don't know and maybe they don't want to know. They expect a high-level service, but they do not pay an adequate and punctual salary. While gloating for the free entrances of the sites, it is good to know that, compared to those unpaid tickets, 25 people and 25 families will no longer have a job. Thank you, Minister Franceschini, on behalf of all these and many other workers who throughout Italy are and will be in the same conditions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u121	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all of us that March is the month of awareness of endometriosis, a female disease that has been characterized over the years by silence and misinformation. World Day is celebrated this year on March 27. The call to action promoted by Worldwide Endomarch's Team Italy, which has been organizing a march in Rome for several years now, is the call to action that takes place in 50 other capitals of the world to draw attention to a disease that is still little known, but widespread among women of childbearing age. In the impossibility, due to the emergency health from Covid-19, to meet in presence, this year the event takes place in virtual form through the yellow illumination of the most important monuments of different Italian cities to combat misinformation through a symbolic gesture that lights the spotlight on this pathology. On behalf of myself and my colleagues who shared the request we made to President Alberti Casellati, whom we thank for having welcomed the initiative, Palazzo Madama will be lighted yellow on March 25th, from sunset to dawn the next day. It is a small but significant gesture to help create awareness about endometriosis, to promote its knowledge and to allow women who are affected to access the most appropriate treatment paths. Since a cure has not yet been discovered, in fact, the only weapon to contain its advance is prevention and, before that, awareness. We are talking about 3 million women in Italy with proven diagnosis, one in ten; in 25 percent of cases endometriosis is asymptomatic and is usually detected during tests performed for the difficulties encountered in procreation. It is a devious disease, because symptoms are often related to diseases of another nature or of psychosomatic origin. This leads to a well-known diagnostic delay ranging from five to nine years; a delay that can irreparably compromise the quality of life of the woman, causing infertility in some cases. There are therapies to relieve symptoms of the disease. Since 2017, endometriosis has been included in the list of chronic and disabling diseases in the most advanced clinical trials, recognizing that patients who are affected have the right to benefit free of certain specialist control performances. Also in December 2019 the National Fund for the support of the study, research and evaluation of the incidence of endometriosis was created, with an amendment to the budget law of the Undersecretary Sileri, the first signatory, among other things, of the bill laying down provisions for the diagnosis and treatment of endometriosis, currently under examination in the 12th Commission. Information, prevention and early diagnosis are therefore the main weapons to combat endometriosis, an invisible disease that unfortunately exists. The State and the legislator owe these women protection and support, ensuring that the health system ensures the best training of medical staff and adequate scientific research. With sensitivity and responsibility we turn on the yellow lights of Palazzo Madama and of all the Italian and world cities that will want to join this due civil battle. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u124	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, I am disappointed as a citizen and it gives me a sense of frustration to learn that in Lecce prison a prisoner would be reduced to isolation after he has been shown to be positive at Covid. Apparently, it's not a single case, but it involves a dozen inmates. These people would be left without water and therefore forced to quench their thirst by using the waters of the smelly faucets and the limits of potability. Well, it is intolerable for this to happen in a place, prison, which is an eminently stately space. I therefore hope that the vaccination campaign in prison institutions will be implemented as soon as possible and in the most homogeneous way for the entire prison population. In this way, the State will be able to guarantee, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, the right to health for all those who attend it. Another vivid wish I wish to address it to the Minister Cartabia, so that it may clarify the case of Lecce and apprehend, if there are any, the responsibilities of such a treatment detrimental to the dignity of a prisoner citizen, that not because it is restricted ceases to be a person, nor does the State cease to be a State in prison, even during this time marked by the continuous and ever new emergency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u127	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has highlighted the structural problems of a social model, of North European origin, deliberately oriented towards an individualist society. With the excuse of pursuing autonomy and independence of people and overcoming a supposed patriarchal model, society is being brought from a community system founded on the family and on relations between local communities and intermediate bodies to an individualist system, in which people live mostly alone, without parental and relational networks and no longer constitute new families. This experiment of social engineering is unfortunately now a reality in some countries, including Sweden, with almost half of the inhabitants who now live alone and with one of the highest rates of recourse to the sale of gametes for the self-fecundation of women, or to the uterus for rent. There are political, economic and social forces that predict that the whole of Europe, particularly as far as Italy is concerned, should be on this gloomy road. Powerful organizations, such as Open Democracy, now openly theorize the overcoming of the natural family thanks to the pandemic. At the same time, President, the birth rate in our country has collapsed, with a -21 percent births, combined - unfortunately - with an increase in mortality caused by Covid. In 2020 it is estimated that we are under 400,000 new born and above 740,000 dead. Italian families, often on their own, have dealt with family loads, the pandemic, the DAD, the closure, the lockdown. I think we need a clear, clear and courageous change of course both in Italy and in Europe. These attempts must be rejected. We think it is wrong to invest in individualist policies and, on the contrary, we believe it is strongly appropriate to restore confidence to the natural family, the only primordial society - I would say eco-sustainable - capable of restarting our country in terms of both demographic and economic, and above all human. For all these reasons, the League has deposited in recent days a bill for the protection, promotion and enhancement of the natural family and of all the thousand activities that Italian families carry out every day in silence and dignity, promoting the well-being and the future of their children, the elderly, widowed people and people with disabilities. We deliver this bill to the attention of Parliament and the Government, with the hope that in a short time we can proceed to invest again on the best of investments, what Winston Churchill said was to put milk in bottles. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u130	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask for an urgent answer to a question, even though it was lodged about ten days ago, concerning the announcement by ENI that it would finally close the cracking of the petrochemical plant in Porto Marghera. The closure of the Porto Marghera plant could also have heavy consequences for the Ferrara plant. There are many jobs at risk and the future of the sector. The Minister has not yet responded, but ENI should motivate its choices and explain its industrial plan for the coming years in order to avoid repercussions on the plants in Ferrara, Mantova and Ravenna. In the city of Ferrara alone, 1,600 jobs are at risk, as well as the future of a sector that is strategic for the economy not only local, but also national. I therefore ask the answer to the question by the Minister of Economic Development because I knew, always from the press - in fact we learn from the press this information, including the meeting that there was between the managing director of ENI Claudio Descalzi and the mayor of Venice - that there should be a ministerial table to deepen the matter. I urge the answer to the question, presented in the exercise of the prerogatives of inspection union due to Members of Parliament, so that I and the other co-signators can be made aware of what is happening, of which is the industrial plan of ENI (including its occupational and environmental repercussions for the site of Porto Marghera, whose strategicity must be maintained and not only announced in words) and of how ENI intends to relate with stakeholders and discuss with transparency its industrial policies, obviously also with the parliamentarians who have submitted the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u133	MAGORNO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I bring to the attention of the House the Recovery South project, supported by more than 300 southern mayors who have joined together with one goal: to work together for the good of the citizens and to relaunch the Mezzogiorno. The Constitutional Affairs Committee of the House of Deputies has already approved a document of ours and received some indications of it. The Recovery South is a historical experience dictated by the awareness that it is not necessary to allow in any way that the only and last chance to permanently heal the pitiful and unconstitutional gap between North and South can be dramatically lost. We are ready to cooperate in the necessary revision of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, in order to respond as much as possible to the need of our territories in which millions of stories live, with women and men who daily undertake to improve their future and above all young people who, today more than yesterday, ask for their right to hope to be restored. We are gathering the cry of despair of parents worried about the future of their children. We read in the eyes of traders, entrepreneurs, precarious workers, unemployed people, teachers and students the discouragement and the desire to react. From the distribution of resources allocated with the so-called relief measures, broken down according to the fiscal wealth of the territories, to the reduced turnover of university teachers and researchers, to the reduction of beds, to the continuous growth of the income differential, to the increasingly low number of employees of the municipalities, to the social expenditure per capita unequal compared to the North: everything speaks of a Mezzogiorno more and more distant from the rest of Italy. The South must be given the same opportunities for growth as the other territories. We believe that, in addition to sectoral distribution, a fair and balanced territorial distribution must be taken into account, applying the same criteria that the European Union uses to determine the overall figure for our country, which also takes into account the principle of economic interdependence between the macro-areas of Italy. We call for 5,000 more figures to be allocated to the municipalities of the South than those already planned to draw up the plans for the Plan and to define the territorial level in all its missions, project lines and expected results for citizens and businesses. On 29 March we will meet the minister for the South and territorial cohesion, Mrs Mara Carfagna, to whom - as we did in a letter addressed to the President of the Republic and to the President of the Council of Ministers - we will renew the request for a concrete commitment by the Government to finally give the Mezzogiorno of Italy the opportunity it deserves since the birth of our nation, and the extraordinary and unrepeatable amount of resources made available by the recovery fund is destined and used to achieve, after decades of missed objectives, that social, economic and territorial cohesion which makes our country - even in compliance with Article 117 of the Constitution - worthy of the unity that history has wished to give us.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u136	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to ask the answer to Question No 3-02325 of 4 March - the days provided for in the Rules of Procedure have therefore expired to give an answer - to which I briefly explain the content in order to show the urgency and my astonishment that I have not heard a reply from the Minister. In 2006 an attempt was blocked by the European Union to extend the Brescia-Padova motorway, which had been in the hands of the same company for fifty years then - now we have reached sixty-five - because it was not linked to any necessity. And it is generally necessary to do the races since there is competition. The Government reacted, in 2007, extending the concession again - at this point I can say - under the pretext of realizing the Valdastico Nord motorway, which was known from the beginning it would not have been possible to realize for the opposition of the Province of Trento. This has recently resulted in an action by the Court of Auditors which, having found this fact, asked for an erarial damage of 178 million to the management of ANAS which, at the time, had the competence to judge on these issues. The extension was conditional upon the approval of the entire final plan of the Valdastico motorway by 30 June 2013. On 18 March 2013, a few days before that deadline, a project is presented, but not the final one, but the preliminary one and not the whole motorway, but only half of it, among other things a half without several kilometers of which the location was not even known. This is written in the act itself. On 6 April 2020, on the basis of the resolution of CIPE, the manager for the motorway concessions of the Ministry of Infrastructure confirmed the expiry of the concession at the end of 2026, although this document is totally unfit to meet the conditions laid down in the act which was also approved by Parliament. Well, the further problem is that not only is this resolution totally insufficient, but it has also been cancelled by the Council of State since the beginning of 2019. Therefore, an official of the Ministry has put a signature that serves to have the beauty of €1.2 million in Atlantica cashed out every day: money that should go to the state, on the basis of a document not only insufficient but even non-existent. I expect the Minister - he could not know about this before my question - to answer. In order to facilitate this, I also tabled a written question today on a subject which is essentially linked to what other signatures of this kind have been placed. I expect an answer, because its lack costs the taxpayer EUR 1.2 million every day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-307.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 30 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 15.55 p.m.)
