ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law n. 2005, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Boldrini and Hope MPs; Zan and others; Scalfarotto and others; Perantoni and others; Bartolozzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u5	Mr President, in the first year of the faculty of jurisprudence we were taught, as they teach today, that the law is the composition of opposing interests and, in the constant and meticulous search for this composition, the parliamentary function of majority and opposition is concrete. Anyone who, by the majority or opposition, fails to comply with this rule betrays the function of Parliament. [[Applause]] The first betrayal is when it is said to go to the Chamber because a law must be passed as it is. This position has prevented any discussion. Excuse me: I am also thinking of yesterday's attempt by President Renzi to accept some of our criticisms and then to say that an agreement must be reached; if we do not move, between whom must we find an agreement? Compared to President Salvini's speech - as they say in Milan - "with my heart in hand," I found out of place the intervention of my friend De Petris who wanted to remind Salvini of having to address the same appeal to Orbán for the laws in force in Hungary. We have to think about what we have to do, because we are failing what is a rule of democracy, of Parliament. The first question, then, is: is it possible that we should not have to discuss it? I am thinking of the position of the Democratic Party in the Commission and I am not interested in setting the date, although it is true what President Ostellari said. On April 28 there was the first session, but it doesn't matter. On the other hand, a fundamental aspect is important: the possibility of discussing was not allowed; I did not have the opportunity to find the climate that was found in the last legislature on the question of the Zan law, already at the present time. Well, I would like to remind you that I asked the Commission a question: can we introduce a crime based on incitement to criminals, ignoring our code, the Rocco code? Compared to the code Rocco, that, yes, fascist: what you try to do today appears something more serious than fascism. When it is said that incitement to criminals must be punished, it means not having in mind what is the organization of our criminal system. I am surprised that some of you who are lawyers, perhaps better than me, do not realize the obvious contrast between Article 115 of the Criminal Code, which says that no Italian citizen is punishable if he makes an incitement to criminals that is not accepted or if the crime does not happen. On the contrary, the draft law under consideration will punish those who instigate discrimination even if this does not happen. What is needed instead? The penal code in Article 414 provides that it must be a public incitement, because that is the correction. In the last parliamentary term we had also made an attempt to correct the Mancino law, because we have to reason in terms of correctness. This first problem was raised by Mr Balboni: how can we discuss Articles 604-a and 604-b of the penal code without knowing what is at the root of the interpretation? This means putting to the judge the choice, the interpretation not only of a given fact, of a specific legislative provision, applying it to the specific case. It's not like that. It is a freedom of interpretation that will take place from one part of Italy to the other in a different way. How, then, do you not realize that you do not want to discuss - take care - a few things, with the preparation and competence that each of us can have, identifying the possible corrections? Why don't you want to argue? The law will return to the House anyway, because there is an error that must be corrected, and you will see it. I wonder how lawyers like Grasso and others may feel that they do not want to make the effort to identify a correct solution. That's what makes me uncomfortable and I can't understand. I am not able to take sides a priori on the right or on the left, with the majority or with the opposition just to put a flag [[Applause]] I want to achieve the result of a rule that is appropriate to guarantee our citizens protection for those who are in the conditions laid down in the Zan bill and at the same time a guarantee to all citizens that they are not involved in a religious war in a certain sense. In fact, many people do not intervene in this House perhaps because they are afraid of being accused of homophobia for having said something that has no will to be framed in that particular case. I wonder if that's possible. Yesterday everyone spoke of Article 4, referring to a rule already provided for in the Constitution in Article 21 on freedom of expression. The Fathers of our Constitution, those who came before the Constitution to defend freedom of expression in our country, have come to lose their lives to defend the fundamental principles of our democracy, our Constitution [[Applause]] And you want to trample on them by saying that freedom of expression is valid until there is by chance a certain danger. Do you realize that? Who will make such an assessment? Certain rules must be established that can be applied by the judge; instead you have identified a precept in half, in which you give a final solution without saying what the path is, for what conditions the judge may condemn a person for violating the principle. It's not like that. You tell me to pass the law as it is, but then I didn't understand, and maybe Senator Errani can explain it to me, because I don't think he should have the conditionality of the Democratic Party secretary. You will have to explain this to me, because there is no specific reason to vote on a rule that poses that series of problems that I have highlighted, even if there are just a few of them. It is therefore necessary to identify the reasons for political action which is probably only made to gain some consensus. It doesn't seem to me that it's something that makes people agree: just think about yesterday's vote on prejudices. Breaking the country apart, breaking Parliament in two is not a matter of great politicians, but of politicians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u6	He asked Senator Malan to speak in order to explain the suspensive question QS3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u7	Mr President, I will not go into the substance and content of this draft law, because there will be many other opportunities to do so in the coming days. I call my colleagues to respect the Constitution in an extremely specific form: we cannot continue on this provision by ignoring what was initially sent by the Secretariat of State of the Holy See and more specifically - then I will say why - by two Churches holding the agreements. In our country the question of religious freedom, which had already taken some steps at the time of 1848, before Italy was united, was included in the Peace Treaty at the end of the Second World War and Italy undertook to protect religious freedom by explicit request of the United States of America, which had and have this theme at heart. In fact, our Constitution in several points deals with the question of religious freedom: in Article 3, which provides that there is no discrimination for religious reasons, all religions naturally; in Articles 19 and 20, which deal specifically with religious freedom, on which there can be no special limitations. However, respect for the Constitution should be enshrined in all laws and this is not new. How often in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and suspensive, doubts are raised on the unconstitutionality of certain parties by both parties at the various stages of opposition. But here there is a procedural fact that leaves no way out: Article 7 of our Constitution provides that the relations between the State and the Catholic Church are governed by the Lateran Pacts, which, when the Constitution was written, were the Pacts of 1929, then renewed in 1984 and signed for the Italian Republic by the President of the Council Bettino Craxi and his counterpart, the Secretary of State of Vatican City. Article 14 of that Agreement, the last, states: If difficulties arise in the interpretation or application of the preceding provisions in the future, the Holy See and the Italian Republic will entrust the search for a friendly solution to a joint commission appointed by them. The verbal note given on June 17 by the Vatican Secretariat of State to the Italian Ambassador to the Holy See recalls precisely this: it recalls Article 2 of the Lateran Pacts, which provides the freedom for the Church to profess her Magisterium and for individual believers to practice their religion. Here we have no literal reference to the situation we are in, although the letter of the Secretariat of State seems to me to leave little doubt. The secularity of the state here has nothing to do with it. It has nothing to do with it, because it is a matter of respecting a treaty; that then this treaty is with the Holy See rather than with another State (Bulgaria, Algeria or who knows which) little notes. The Treaties must be respected, especially when specifically provided for in the Constitution. But in the Constitution there is also Article 8. Rightly, the constituent Fathers wanted to regulate relations with the Catholic Church, for the well-known events that we know arose from 1870 onward. But, for matters of religious freedom, which must be guaranteed to all, they anticipated Article 8, i.e. the understandings with other religious confessions. Well, among those are the agreements with the Apostolic Church in Italy and the Church of Jesus Christ of the saints of the last days, both approved by Parliament in 2012 and signed as early as 2007. It takes a very long period to obtain such agreements; it took twelve years for the confession that had it more quickly, while for the two churches that we are talking about more than thirty years. That's certainly not something that's done lightly. I remember that those agreements have a long process and that the final stages are three: the third last is the initials by the Italian Republic and the religious confession concerned. For the Italian Republic that initial was put by the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council Enrico Letta, name that to some of you especially should remind something. [[Applause]] And he didn't sign because he wanted to do that, but because he represented the Italian Republic. The actual signature, which takes place after a series of further investigations, is made by the President of the Council, who at the time was called Romano Prodi (another name that should be familiar to many). But that signature, of course again, did not put it as a person; it would be as if any other of the Presidents of the Council had placed it, as if Mario Draghi, Giuseppe Conte, Silvio Berlusconi, Mario Monti or any Head of Government had put it, because they represented the Italian Republic as we represent the Italian Republic. In both these agreements there is an article that was then passed by law (they are laws provided directly by the Constitution), where it says: On the occasion of draft laws relating to matters involving relations of the Apostolic Church in Italy - or of the Church of Jesus Christ of the saints of the last days in Italy - with the State, the agreements of the case will be promoted in advance in accordance with Article 8 of the Constitution. This is a precise obligation, and not a faculty. We are not here at this moment to judge whether the findings made by said churches are correct or not. We have a rule in the Constitution that tells us that we must first listen to these questions. [[Applause]] Otherwise it means trampling the Constitution into a part where religious freedom is protected. Then it will be up to the Government first to tell what to do; but you cannot simply ignore this, because otherwise it means putting under your feet the word of the Italian Republic, which was given by Romano Prodi and Enrico Letta. Do you want to do this? This is very serious. Beyond the reasons given by these two religious confessions, there is a precise commitment of the Italian Republic. If I may, in the time I have available, I would like to point out that these two confessions have both kept saying that I fully agree with the protection of the rights and equality of people who recognize themselves as LGBT and support their rights. This is written in the text of the formal letters sent to the President of the Council, and is reiterated. Moreover, both religious confessions have suffered, even in Italy, serious discrimination, so they know what it means to suffer them and they argue that they must not discriminate against people who recognize themselves as LGBT, but that they cannot harm religious freedom. I would remind you that the suspensive issues as a whole will be voted on, but voting on one will not all be approved. If, however, we vote on the suspensive issue - as I hope - which calls for a momentary suspension of the debate on the draft law in question - as many people also wish in the centre of the left - then we will have to vote to see what kind of suspension there will be. I would like to point out that, if no answer is given - among other things, the Government itself should give an answer, because the person signing the agreements is the head of the Government; there is also a question of mine about it and the Government should answer the questions - and if you omit this passage, and you cannot do so, you say openly.. . [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u8	Senator Malan, if you want you have a second to finish your surgery, but just one second.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u9	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, Mr President. I therefore ask you not to ignore these demands, because doing so means trampling directly, formally and clearly on the Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u10	He asked Senator Romeo to explain the suspensive question QS1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u11	Mr President, our request for suspension is very narrow and short. In the resolution we basically call for the suspension of the procedure and the postponement of the measure to 27 July, so that the Commission can check whether a political agreement can be reached for orderly management of the measure. It seems to us to be a demand of common sense, not least because it is pointless to dwell here on obstructionism or on the fact that the measure was not intended to be brought to the attention of this House. Now you've asked for calendarization, and you've got it. The game starts and you just have to determine how we want to play it, in fact how you want to play it. I am clearly addressing my colleagues in the Democratic Party, in the 5 Star Movement and in the Mixed Group. We want to play it with different votes on the amendments and with secret votes; or, rediscovering the art of compromise, which should guide the common sense of politics, do we meet in the Commission instead, to find a solution together for a law of civilization, which serves the country? That is all we need to think about and there needs to be clarity and transparency about it, because depending on how we want to play the game, there can be one result or another. Moreover, some of the questions raised, such as gender identity, have not been raised only by us of the League, by Forza Italia or by Brothers of Italy, but by very authoritative representatives of the Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars have questioned the definition of gender identity, putting the question of the risk of an opportunistic use of the aspect of gender [[Applause]] or access to such benefits, which could compress the hard-won spaces of women in recent years. [[Applause]] It is the women on your side who have raised the matter. When talking about the indeterminate nature of the criminal rules, a colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars intervened on this issue saying that, if she had been asked if the one under consideration was a perfect bill for her, she would have replied no, because as a jurist she knew the criticalities of that text. She has therefore recalled the general nature of the criminal rules and the fact that there are no requirements of taxability and determination, while the citizen must know with certainty what are the conducts that can lead to a criminal penalty. There can be no doubt, you cannot leave everything to the discretion of the judge. And these are statements not of the League, of Forza Italia or of Brothers of Italy, but of some exponents of the Movimento 5 Stars. Since there are doubts, rationality and common sense they would like us to take the necessary time - fifteen days, we are not asking to get to who knows when - to work in the Commission, eliminate doubts, overcome the critical issues and arrive at a good solution for the country. We believe that this is, reasonably, the logic that everyone should pursue. We do not wish, in the age of social distance, to distance ourselves from common sense as well. Perhaps you should find some common sense and some political intelligence on these issues, also because everything depends - as I said - on how you want to play the game: if the module, the scheme is or the Zan law as it is or death, copying a little' the scheme of some time ago - "or Count or death" - remember how it ended. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u14	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I have asked to speak out in order to stigmatize the behaviour that was carried out in this House yesterday, and above all to ask whether the Presidency is also going to intervene in this regard. It is clear to me that shooting with mobile phones in this House cannot be done, even more so when it is done against colleagues who are legitimately deciding, with applause, to give a signal of assent to a passage from another Member Senator. Yesterday I was found guilty of having applauded with other colleagues in the Group a passage from Senator Salvini's speech. Senator Cirinna considered it correct to resume this applause and make me object of social stoning, because of course she did not just resume the intervention, but also published it on her social media, among other things writing: In the Senate now preliminary constitutionality on #ddlZan Italy's parent company Viva Faraone applauds Salvini who explains why the League considers this law unconstitutional. No comment. Not only, therefore, does the senator make the video, not only does she publish it on social media so that Pharaoh is attacked by those who support the Zan bill, but she even lies knowing to lie. All of you here in this House know that, if yesterday the question was rejected, it is thanks to the 13 votes of the Senators of Italy Viva. The question referred for a preliminary ruling did not pass by 12 votes. [[Applause]] First of all, he did not respect the rules of the Senate - President, I ask you for an official speech - then he exposed a colleague to social stoning and I from my right do not expect such behavior. [[Applause]] I am surprised and I hope that President Malpezzi stigmatizes with me the behavior of Senator Cirinna because, if the PD believes that such a behavior of a senator is correct, I am surprised. Finally, Mr President, he lied knowing that he did so: he told all his fans on social media that Italy Viva supported the preliminary question presented by the League with applause of assent, without of course saying that the preliminary ruling was rejected thanks to our votes. Mr President, I would ask you to speak and I would also ask Senator Malpezzi to take action against her colleague in the Group because we can divide ourselves between ourselves, we can think differently about so many things - and yesterday we thought the same way about the question of the question - but the correct behaviour must never be lacking among us. I'm asking for at least that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u15	I am sorry that this is happening in this House, but if no one tells me things like that, I don't know what to do. Yesterday wasn't a quiet session. Every time I see someone taking pictures of the House on their mobile, I say on time that it is forbidden. I don't know if Senator Cirinna filmed yesterday. However, as the question arises every time and has given rise to various disputes, I will check through the images that are punctually made if this has happened. If this is the case, of course the consequences of the Rules of Procedure will take place, given that everyone assumes responsibility for what he says or what he does in this House. Yesterday I called attention to everyone's respect several times. This is a free Parliament, where everyone can express what they think. The question of applause was also raised yesterday. When he applauds for expressing his views, I never interrupt the applause of anyone on any side; and I am sorry that if they come from one side of the House, then they are fine, and if they come from the other side, they are not good. I repeat that this is a free assembly, where everyone must be able to say what he wants, with the respect that this institution always requires, regardless of the subject being discussed. [[Applause]] I therefore call on everyone to respect it, which is a precondition - it is not even the merit - to debate in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u18	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to express my solidarity with Mr Pharaoh and also wish him a cordial welcome in my world. Those who expose themselves in the social debate are fatally, sooner or later, lynched. There is, however, an interesting aspect to his speech. I would not like to pollute the atmosphere of agreement in this House with a very brief consideration, because I am speaking not only on the order of business on behalf of my Group, but also as a member of a Commission, the Extraordinary Commission for combating intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence, in which we see, in all its clarity, the double morale that characterizes some parties present in this august assembly. [[Applause]] It is right, Mr President, that you have claimed your role of impartiality and the fact that you - always quite rightly - allow your praise to be expressed, wherever it comes from, because it is part of the political dialectic to manifest, even in forms - if I may use this term - the consensus with regard to the arguments expressed in this House. But - you know how it is - here we live in the animal farm, so some applause is more applause than others and some hatred is more hate than others. In particular, the battle that we are personally fighting as a political force in that Commission is trying to make it clear that hatred or incitement to lynching - if that is, of course, because then there is also a speech to be made about when this phenomenon is characterized - it is regrettable whether it comes from the horrendous conservative, obscurantist and barbaric hosts on this side, whether it comes from the enlightened and elected ranks of the defenders of progress and democracy, which - to what I understand - is on this other side. [[Applause]] If we succeed in restoring a cultural and ethical balance between us, it will become easier to achieve a political synthesis and also pass on, with common sense, to accidents that may occur. But the incident becomes unacceptable if it comes from those who proclaim themselves good, having forgotten Gaber's song with which they lived in their distant youth, and therefore a certain forgetfulness is there. We don't like the dictatorship of good people. We do not like any dictatorship, that of the good even less, because it is particularly insidious and dangerous, since it is paved with good intentions, as must be every way of every hell, which is on earth before being in the life that awaits us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u21	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the question of suspensiveness. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Wait a minute, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u24	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on a point of order. What Senator Pharaoh has told us now is, I believe, a matter of enormous gravity. You correctly mentioned the ban on taking photographs or taking pictures in this House. We know very well that this ban is poorly respected. However, I had the opportunity to verify directly the footage that was recalled by Senator Pharaoh and the angle of framing from which that shot was taken does not raise the doubt that it was made from the inside of the Chamber and from a certain wing of the Chamber and certainly not from above or, if necessary, from the press. I am used, unfortunately, to seeing that there is no ban that is respected if there is no sanction. Therefore, having been pointed out by a person responsible by Senator Pharaoh, who is my total solidarity, I ask that there be a reminder from the Presidency of the person concerned, who, in accordance with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, can immediately give his explanations or - as I think is the case - apologise. Otherwise, this would be a disciplinary sanction for me. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u25	Senator Calderoli, I thank you for that suggestion. I already said I'd have the investigation done. So, thank you for helping me with this job. I repeat that the Presidency will carry out the investigation, by Senators Quaestors, as always. After that, there will be consequences, as I have already announced and as the Rules of Procedure provide. Please, Senator La Russa, you asked to speak and I already gave you the floor. It has the right to intervene. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u26	Colleagues, the Presidency had already given me the floor and earlier it made an exception. Now, however, do not interrupt the surgery again. Mr President, I am not going to talk about matters of the Rules of Procedure, which are useful, but I can only start with the case that Mr Pharaoh has denounced. Connect Pharaoh, I can start with an easy joke. You said you didn't expect a certain gesture from your right. You mean the physical right, but you call her by her name. She meant she didn't expect it from the left. The right, in fact, does not do these things! He doesn't do them! [[Applause]] Then he boasted of a fact, of which I do not know if it is right to boast. Historically, however, it is true that our exception of unconstitutionality, with which we argued that the measure under consideration violates the sacred principles of the Constitution, did not pass thanks to the votes of its Group, because only 12 votes were missing. It is historically true that you voted against our exception of unconstitutionality. Connect Pharaoh, erring is human, but persevering is diabolical. Soon we will vote again. After what has happened, do you really feel that you would point out with one vote against the request to suspend the measure? A provision that, in the name of love, preaches hatred? There is proven proof: in the name of love, he preaches hatred! [[Applause]] Mr Pharaoh, do you know that, if you pass this provision, your applause yesterday for an intervention contrary to this law can be considered incitement and can be sentenced up to a year and six months in prison? Do you know or don't you know? [[Applause]] Don't worry. With all due respect for Mrs Cirinna's colleague, from Cirinna's, Italy is full. There's a lot of them! Not so many to be able to determine a majority, but there are so many who do not accept that someone thinks differently from how they feel it is right to think and that they are ready to impose punishment, prison or worse. Attention, in fact, because hatred produces violence and a new culture, which is the daughter of intolerance, which is the daughter of hatred, which is the daughter of division and discrimination. [[Applause]] You're discriminating against people who don't feel the same way. You see: who speaks of discrimination is understood, because I remember - you are younger than me and, therefore, you were not present - the difficulty of going to school, to the university for those who were right and with the same logic was discriminated against by the Cirinnas of the time. ( [[Applause]] ) I do not wish anyone these forms of discrimination. Friends of the 5 Stars, who are young to politics, trust me: I'm not mad at you, even if some of you really make me smile, and I repeat really smile. There is no need to say what could happen if this measure were to pass to one who simply claims that it is wrong for a transsexual, born man - I repeat, born man - to compete at the Olympics with women. One may disagree; but if I disagree, it is not an opinion, it becomes a crime. Even more serious is then if I say - and I risk four years in prison, because I am part of a political movement that supports it from A to Z - that a child cannot be adopted by a couple of parents of the same sex. However, it cannot be homophobia, since the person responsible for a right-wing homosexual body, which exists yesterday in an interview in all newspapers, has stigmatized this law and these forms of discrimination. We have become, in spite of us, the banners of tolerance, the banners of those who accept the confrontation, of those who want to know how you think and are not afraid if one thinks otherwise. That is why today we are in favour of the suspensive issues presented not by us - this time we do not even give you the alibi - but by parties that are part of the Government and of the same majority. [[Applause]] , according to which you imagined not to go to vote, because the vote, like the opinions, for you is the maximum of fear. And I repeat for you. And then, thanks to the colleagues who have presented them, we will vote in favour of the suspensive issues. I'll finish where I started. Dear colleague Pharaoh, wandering is human, persevering is diabolical. After what happened, one must not refrain from applauding, when he wants to abstain from voting in favour of those who, thanks to love, preach hatred. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u27	Senator Nugnes, don't worry. Please, ladies and gentlemen, a moment of silence. In accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, Senator Calderoli spoke on a point of order. Senator Rossomando raised her hand to intervene on the matter, but I didn't see her and I'm sorry. I therefore call on Mrs Rossomando to speak on a point of order, as Rule 92 provides. Please, Senator. I repeat, I'm sorry, but I didn't see you ask to intervene before.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you very much for your attention, and above all I would like to thank my fellow Members, apologizing for having unintentionally interfered with the beginning of Mr La Russa's speech. I would very much like to say that I have been urging the Presidency Council for some time to consider adopting an attitude that must always be taken into account, in any case, in relation to a series of behaviours undertaken in this House: this would certainly help us even in times of tension, which are absolutely physiological. We have even had people in this House who have been injured in behavior over which I had asked to intervene with a view to video footage and identification of responsibility. [[Applause]] I would like to mention, for everyone, the case of a salesman who has made a series of developments on the benches, certainly not in his acrobatic spirit. [[Comments]] , and that of a Senator Questor who injured himself in a not mild way. Having said that, thank you, Mr President, because you have authoritatively taken over the task and the burden of taking account of the matter, I would like to hope in general. In this respect it would be interesting to find in the social archive of many colleagues - who never disappears, because there is almost never the right to be forgotten - all the footage that is taken in this House. [[Applause]] I believe that, at that point, we could intervene on many aspects, which I personally censor and on which I am absolutely opposed; there is no time when in this House, when I happen to notice or if I am told, it does not signal it in an absolutely equanimous way. I therefore propose that a Presidency Council be held to assess from now on what attitude must always be taken, how we intervene and how we inform - and it would not be necessary - our colleagues about how we will regulate ourselves from a certain moment on. The last consideration I want to make is requested by my colleague, Mr Bagnai. Senator Bagnai, I could not understand very well the logical consequence of your reasoning. In this debate we are discussing hatred, hateful attitudes, verbal aggressions, and I think that we should all be grateful to my colleague, Mr Zan, if only because he raised this reflection and awareness. If there is a path, we could for example start censoring, even with internal measures of the parties (which they can do), all those aggressions and incitements to violence that take place by representatives (municipal councilors, regional councillors and so on), who not only take positions on some aspects, but incite to hatred and have very violent attitudes. I am of the opinion that the space of politics, precisely because it is a space whose autonomy I demand, regardless of the interventions of the authorities in various ways, must intervene decisively with very clear and very strict measures. This would definitely be good for everyone. I shall conclude, Madam President, by not wanting to abuse the courtesy you have given me. I note an approach, let's say, to the mild right - since Senator Bagnai is also an academic I allow this kind of allusion - by the League, and this obviously can only be greeted with great satisfaction and great joy. For example, we will have the opportunity to discuss the reform of criminal law, alternative penalties, public service work and a number of issues to which we are sure that the League, while collecting signatures for the referendum, will certainly be very sensitive and attentive. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u29	I take note of your proposal. Of course, even on the occasions that you have called the Senators Quaestors have had the task of verifying the individual behaviors. Also because there is a principle that must always be respected, that you do not escape, compared to what you say in this House. The verification is for real sunt exposita. So, we're gonna give rise to all the case investigations.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u32	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I hope that I can really return to the question of suspension of the Zan bill, because all the time we are rightly taking risks giving this House so many slogans, so many good intentions, but little concreteness to explain the facts. Yesterday as it is today, I think I see in this House the attempt by some political forces - out of charity, legitimate - to tell a story that is not as it is presented, even not focusing on the articles of the draft law for which yesterday they asked for a preliminary constitutionality and today suspended it, with the different formulas that have been presented. I say this because it really seems that we have all turned into women and men of good will, all eager to find mediation, except, most likely, the forces that voted in favour of the bill at our examination in the House, who continue to believe that it is right, urgent and necessary. Well, I would simply like to turn to the forces that today say that more time is needed, and that they did not realize that we needed this time already in the previous eight months and that our appeals for the possibility of working in the Commission have all fallen into the void, except then realize - after the urge to schedule - that perhaps the need to face the bill was there. Yet, they didn't notice it before, so only a week ago the narrative of a will to bring home the law is advancing. I wonder, however, whether there has been a willingness to read the text and whether the proposals that are coming from the centre-right correspond exactly to what the bill says. Mr President, I have listened to yesterday's speeches and today's remarks on Article 4, which is the son of an amendment - I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because the history of this bill in the House is clear and you certainly know it too - at the first signature of my colleague Costa, at the time of Forza Italia, which was called an amendment that saves ideas, wanted by the whole centre-right, voted unanimously, and placed as a condition for voting on that article unanimously. Today, the same forces that voted for it tell us that that article is to be eliminated in its entirety and that it would be the evil of everything. You have changed your mind, but know that that norm is your daughter, you wanted it, and to us objectively today yours seems a pretext. [[Applause]] Since Senator Salvini also arrived, and last night I did not have the opportunity to reply after his speech, I take the opportunity to point out - in reference to article 7 - a request that Senator Salvini made last night. I read from the shorthand, ma'am. In his speech, Senator Salvini says: We take away the children and take away the education entrusted to the primary schools: we leave to Mother and Dad the right and the duty to educate their children, not to the State. To what does Senator Salvini refer? Honestly, I don't know, but I went to read Article 7 of the bill - I never wish I was confused - which concerns this part in paragraph 3, because I think Senator Salvini was referring to this in his speech. What does paragraph 3 say? This paragraph says that "On the occasion of the National Day against homophobia, lesbophobia, biphobia and transphobia are organized ceremonies, meetings and any other useful initiative for the realization of the purposes referred to in paragraph 1. The schools, in compliance with the three-year plan of the formative offer referred to in paragraph 16 of Article 1 of Law No 107 of 13 July 2015 and the educational pact of co-responsibility, as well as the other public administrations provide for the activities referred to in the previous period............................................................................................................................... [[Comments]] No, of course, they provide, I read it. Mr President, my difficulty is to understand how they may not agree with an initiative contained within a law that reads like this, no more or less, because the reference is clear. The three-year plan of the training offer ensures the implementation of the principles of equal opportunities, promoting in schools of every order and grade the education of gender equality, the prevention of gender violence and all discrimination in order to inform and raise awareness among students, teachers and parents on the issues that are already indicated in a previous law. However, it is added to paragraph 3, which I read earlier and which is so frightening, that everything must be linked to the co-responsibility pact. What does the co-responsibility pact say? I'm telling you, colleagues, because you're parents, it's about you, and you should know it. Families have the right, but also the duty to know before the enrolment of their children in school the contents of the Training Plan and, for secondary school, formally sign the educational pact of co-responsibility in order to share in detail rights and duties in the relationship between autonomous school institution, students and families. What does it say basically? What is already in force, that parents are part of the educational process [[Applause]] , that they are not cut off, that the schools decide together with the parents, President, - and here I ask my colleague and friend Davide Faraone - on the basis of a paragraph of a law that already in 2015 - when we voted and I must say that with Davide Pharaoh, at the time undersecretary for education, we had worked so hard - it was used by the other side of the hemicycle to accuse us of putting gender ideology in school. Yeah, Senator Pillon, I know you're convinced that since 2015 we've been in the school... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, talk to me. MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, it is right that we should know why Senator Pillon has shown from the non-verbal communication that they really are convinced that a gender ideology has been introduced in school since 2015 and that it does not exist. I wonder why, for example, they have never proposed to repeal that paragraph. [[Applause]] However, I would point out, President, that thanks to the work done by the then Minister Faithful in 2017, cross-versally, with all the parents' associations, there are today guidelines that indicate precisely how schools must comply in the fight against all discrimination and forms of hatred. Zan's bill is based on that, no more or less. You understand, therefore, that at the moment when you tell us that we have to suspend work to find mediations on points that you are not narrating correctly, a problem about the clarity of your behavior or at least about its good faith let us come [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u35	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to make it clear that the debate on a suspensive issue is not a matter of parliamentary etiquette: good manners are not at stake, it is an entirely political issue. I shall therefore try to explain the reason for this statement. One of the objections to the Zan bill concerns the concept of gender identity, because it would be extraneous to the order and in any case not sufficiently clear, but it is not so. The expression is contained in the Directive on the award of refugee status, which refers to gender identity among the grounds for persecution; it is mentioned in the Directive on the rights of assistance and protection of victims of crime, where violence against a person is considered, inter alia, because of its gender identity. Gender identity is present in the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the Istanbul Convention of 2011. In addition, in the penitentiary system there is a ban on discrimination in relation to sex, gender identity and sexual orientation. With regard to case law, since 1985 the Constitutional Court has recognized a concept of sexual identity new and different from the past, on the basis of which the whole of psychological and social factors that contribute to determining a conception of sex as a complex personality data become important. The right to gender identity (and I am quoting a decision of the Constitutional Court of 2017), a constituent element of the right to personal identity fully falling within the scope of the fundamental rights of the person, was reaffirmed by the Consulta in 2017 as an aspiration of the individual to the correspondence of sex attributed to him in the personal directors at the time of birth with that subjectively perceived and lived. This, which is the definition of the Zan bill, is taken from a ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2017 [[Applause]] Let us turn to the other question. It is said that the Zan bill is useless, because the provisions to punish violent or discriminatory behavior already exist. It is true, because it is obvious that beating a couple of homosexuals to death, as unfortunately happened too many times in our country, is already a crime. However, the Zan bill does not deal with this, but with those who instigate such crimes. For this reason, and only in this sense, the Zan bill aims at an educational activity to be carried out also in schools to prevent discrimination. We are talking about incitement to the crime and training must make it clear the seriousness, but there is no doubt that the legislator must intervene in the face of a phenomenon that, precisely in the absence of specific cases of crime, is statistically underestimated, especially given the very strong presence on social networks. For all those who are opposed to the Zan bill, the text is ideological, detrimental to the freedom of expression guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, because it does not define with the determination proper to the criminal law what discriminatory acts are and, consequently, what opinions should be considered criminal because they are suitable to determine the concrete danger of their fulfilment. This, too, is a resounding falsehood. First of all, the Zan bill does not introduce a new crime, rather extends the crimes already foreseen against equality, adding to discrimination on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds those based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability. Therefore, those who claim that it is a repressive bill of freedom of expression should, in order to be consistent, extend their accusation of unconstitutionality to the entire discipline in this matter, the so-called Royal-Left Law, which is now transfused into Article 604-bis of the Criminal Code, and therefore always and in any case invoke freedom of speech also in racial, ethnic, national or religious matters. You don't do this because you have some jurisprudential knowledge and you know you have against all the constitutional jurisprudence, the Penal Court and everything else. It is not propaganda of ideas, but incitement to commit discriminatory acts: between the two concepts there is, legally speaking, an abyss. It must not be merely a matter of opinion, but of words which, by incitement, risk being translated or translated into practice into discriminatory actions, according to a close, direct and consequential causal link. Therefore, it is not the ideas or opinions in themselves that are punished, but only if they are able to transform themselves into violent and harmful action in concrete terms of a constitutionally protected good. Therefore, it is always necessary to assess the concrete and intrinsic ability of the conduct to determine others to carry out a violent action with reference to the specific context and the modalities of the fact (Court of Cassation, judgment of 2015). The offences of incitement to carry out discriminatory acts therefore do not conflict with the freedom of expression, because the incitement has an active content of incitement to a conduct, at least understood as general behavior, and realizes a quid pluris regarding a manifestation of opinions, reasonings or personal convictions (Court of Cassation, judgment of 2001). Forgive me if I have quoted all this series of judgments and case-law quotations, but I believe that is the only way, the only convincing argument to show how legally unfounded the fears expressed against the Zan bill are, in this respect, and how critical arguments raised against it, for their benefit, should lead to questioning the entire criminal legislation against so-called rights against equality and, of course, this is unthinkable. There are no well-founded constitutional legal arguments; only a political stance, legitimate, but completely misleading and profoundly wrong. In other words, the reasons for political propaganda would like to have the upper hand over reasonableness, the idea of constitutionally guaranteed equality and freedom. No, you just can't do it and you can't accept it. That is why we shall vote no to the suspensive issue. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u38	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we reiterate our vote in favour of the suspensive issue and thank both Senator Malpezzi and Senator Bressa because they have highlighted a whole series of very complex issues, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Cassation, the POF and everything else, supporting the argument that, being a very complex issue, the best place to discuss it is the Commission itself. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u41	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business to restore the truth about what Mr Malpezzi has just said. Rule 4 - just because we have to give the truth - ex Rule 3 to the House, was actually proposed by Mr Costa but not because it was the solution to the problem, but simply to reduce the damage. One rule was wrong and we continue to say that it was wrong; that was a proposal to reduce the damage and it was not intended to find a solution. However, I remind this House exactly how we in Forza Italia voted that day: the final vote on Rule 4 (ex Rule 3 in the Chamber) was a vote of 242 in favour against 171, so not by unanimity, as they say. [[Applause]] Second point: Forza Italia, with the leader of the Gelmini era and the vice-chief Vicar Occhiuto, gave an indication to vote against that article (it is all in the report of the proceedings). So colleagues voted against, except for someone who wanted to vote in dissent from the Group and voted in favour, according to their conscience. Those few in Forza Italia who voted in favour did so precisely because of that reduction in the damage that Mr Costa had thought, although we continue to say that this rule was still harmful. This is just to restore the truth. I would also add, if I may, that in the past parliamentary term Senator Cirinna affossed the Scalfarotto bill because she felt in the Commission that that was not a fair law. It is a pity that we have been deprived of the opportunity to think, to review the Senate in the Commission and to improve this text. If it was right then, why isn't it right today, Senator Cirinna? Explain it to us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u42	Pursuant to Rule 93 (6) of the Rules of Procedure... [[Comments]] I don't understand. [[Comments]] No, the order of business has been abandoned for a long time. We shall now proceed to the vote on the suspension of the matter. I would point out that Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure has been amended. In this article we are talking about a single vote on the suspensive issue, but later it is also said that the Senate is called to decide first on the suspension and then, if it is approved, on the duration of the suspension itself. It also adds, because this is part of the petitum of at least two proposals for a suspensive issue, that each Group may also submit a request for referral back to the Commission. This is a novelty of Article 93, paragraph 6. We shall therefore proceed first with the vote on the suspensive question, after which the subsequent deliberations will be taken on the basis of the outcome. Pursuant to Rule 93, paragraph 6, of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the suspensive question submitted, with several reasons, by Senator Romeo (QS1), Senator Bernini and other senators (QS2), and Senator Malan (QS3). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). For one vote: Senators for 135, Senators against 136. [[Applause. Comments.]] Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, please, Senator Nencini would like to speak and we would like to listen to him. A moment of silence!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u43	Madam President... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u44	Colleagues, please, a moment of silence, out of respect for the colleague who would like to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u45	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Thank you, Madam President. I say this immediately, in order to avoid any misunderstanding: the intention of the rule, Madam President and ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely right and must be discussed without further suspension, but at the same time must be defended from all forms of intolerance. On the one hand there is a certain right, that to the freedom to choose one's own destiny and to the freedom to love always prefers the law of the Old Testament, on the other hand there are the intemperances and the offenses of those who even want the Senate to discuss nothing. At first I want to remind you that God's law has never been published in the Official Journal. As for the second, often marginalized and mistreated minorities, with whom the socialists have spent and struggled for a lifetime, a higher dose of common sense would be required if it were necessary to make the norm better. There have also been one-way accusations in this House - and I am referring to them - even to those who speak to you. The main accusation was that he wanted to postpone sine die and that he had changed his mind about a vote in the House of Deputies. I have not changed any ideas and I do not want to postpone sine die, but I want to exercise my right as a senator to say mine, precisely because those who led the civil battles in Italy, radicals and socialists in the first place, have only here the opportunity to say their own and not in the Commission, of which in the Senate is not a member. 10:58 a.m. (NENCINI followed). There are more examples... [[Brusio]] Mr President, I do not know whether I have to pay the price of having been decisive in the vote on the suspensive issue, or the other way around. I am happy to listen, but having no mirror, Mr President, I would at least like you to listen, otherwise I can sit down and hand over my speech to the Presidency. It is the first rule of freedom in an Assembly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u46	You're absolutely right, Senator Nencini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u47	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, as you have mentioned it, I claim to be heard, at least by you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask the Senators, Quaestors, Bottici and De Poli, to provide, also because they are right in the middle of the assembly. The same goes for the other side of the hemicycle... Senator Ronzulli! NENCINI (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nencini, let's go down this mountain. Go ahead! NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am speaking if the general conditions allow me to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now the conditions are there. NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I also have a baritone voice, so I will try to use it. As regards the accusations that are being made, I would like to remind you that the life of civil battles inside and outside Parliament has never been linear. When discussing divorce, the Italian Communist Party signed the Luck Act only three years after its presentation. Nilde Iotti signed it first, then Ugo Spagnoli signed it and followed the others, three years after the presentation of the norm. I would add that on civil unions the path was equally punctuous and harsh: in July 2014 a unified text was presented, in March 2015 a new unified text, in October 2015 a new bill, in February 2016 a maxi amendment with confidence to the Senate, on May 11, 2016 the Chamber approved it, after starting its own cognitive investigation. Same fate for the short divorce, Mr. President: approved in the House in May 2014, in the Senate one year later in 2015, back in the House in third reading in April. Never a linear path. It is proof of how - and this is also the case in the House - the accusation often amounts to condemnation, all the more so when it is amplified by the media court. As soon as you propose a change of civilization - I have one to propose, the one that concerns freedom of opinion, made uncertain by Article 4, despite the excellent defense made by my colleague and friend Senator Bressa - you are compared to the traditionalist right, even if you have spent your whole life in battles of civilization, from divorce to abortion to civil unions. Social media double the charges, triggers the source of shame, a presumption of guilt that you will have trouble getting rid of forever. The amendments that are proposed do not belong only to the right, there is also a part of the left of this House which calls for clarity on Article 4. The answer cannot be menefregism, it cannot be that we are all united in the gorgo of reactionaries, it cannot be that we are quoted - as I have read - as sheep who are ghastly. This would be proof of an illiberal drift, of a culture that discriminates against different opinions. I come to ask myself - and this will be the debate from which the debate on the draft law Zan cannot ignore - if it is not a return to a certain moral order, just that moral order that was wiped out two and a half centuries ago by the French Revolution and as a moral order that cannot be criticized, although it is one thing to criminalize the incitement to discrimination and something else to discriminate against propaganda. There is more: in a world marked by political correctness, I am even more concerned about freedom of expression. I wonder if it is really racist who does not bow down to a playing field or whether he makes an assessment that disregards the object. Let it be clear: in the Zan bill there is no interference in the affairs of the Church and the long hand of the Vatican was a clear invasion of the field. It is equally clear that the Zan norm fills a void and if that void fills it, it is a void that goes, from the parliamentary point of view, filled. I want to give legal recognition to minorities that have at the moment been ignored for a long time by law and I want to severely sanction acts of discrimination and violence. That in which I want to live, however, ladies and gentlemen, is a society in which the freedom to decide and to express one's opinion is guaranteed without other adjectives. I am not quoting here a bunch of lawyers, constitutionalists to whom we often rely on in every corner of this House to support and support our opinions. What cannot happen is that a personal opinion - I am talking about Article 4 - is submitted to the decision-making arbitrary of a judge. I do not want a liberal principle to be reversed, which selects only prohibited conduct, while everything else is considered lawful. The "provided" provided for in Article 4 leads in this direction. I will be even clearer and conclude: I do not want to replace a constitutional guarantee, the one provided for in Article 21 for the manifestation of thought, with a guarantee by ordinary law. We have the time and the way to clarify it and, if necessary, to delete it in this House. Freedom cannot be cut at will. It's good for Zan law and it's not good for freedom of opinion. [[Applause]] I say this above all to my right, to the compañeros and friends of the Democratic Party, because, if we do not bring freedom back to this slice of the hemicycle and we dedicate it entirely to a backward right, we fail to have a function, which, dear friends and compañeros, will be the theme of the coming months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u48	I'd beg the League Group to settle down. Senator Romeo, I appeal to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen this and listened to it in the presentation of the preliminary ruling and we have reiterated it in the debate on the suspension. The orientation of Brothers of Italy on this provision is of clear and clear opposition to a provision which we, as a Group, consider liberticidal. I have the honour, and in part also the burden, because it is an important responsibility, to begin the long list of interventions by Brothers of Italy. On the contrary, it is not a list; it is the position taken by the whole of the Brothers of Italy Group, which will intervene in full. I will start this marathon on the measure to which - I repeat - we will stand firm, determined and above all motivated. This is the pride that will allow us to represent to our voters and to all the Italian people the position of Brothers of Italy on the measure. When I begin, I cannot fail to refer to the wording of our Constitution and, in particular, to Article 3. "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, regardless of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions." In the very foundation of our order, therefore, there is no room to tolerate discrimination or, worse still, violence, based, among other things, on the sex of citizens or their personal conditions. The law in force punishes any criminally relevant conduct arising from discriminatory prejudice. Is there really a concrete, real and tangible need to legislate in a field which is already largely governed by law, including criminal law, and which is recalled in the principles of our Constitution? In the media propaganda accompanying the provision, the formula "a law against hatred" was used. Excellent communication choice, but certainly misleading, even if suggestive: no crime committed in Italy finds mitigating or hesitations if motivated by hatred. Instead, the opposite is true. Our criminal law already has all the means to sanction any kind of act that is committed with a discriminatory, abject and cruel intent. Increasing the penalties and aggravating factors already foreseen, as in the spirit of the text under consideration, does not represent a legislative response to a particularly widespread phenomenon of crime against those who have changing, changing or indefinite sexualities: between 2012 and 2020 876 episodes of so-called homophobia have been recorded in Italy, as reported by homophobia.org. 876 cases in eight years represent an average of 110 per year and 9 per month, compared to the more than 6,600 crimes that are committed and reported every day in Italy, with an average of about 277 every hour. It should be noted, however, that not all of these 876 episodes are of criminal importance, as they are often undisclosed or not necessarily attributable to a form of gender hatred; however, the mere complaint is certainly not sufficient to determine in a definitive way the existence of a guilty person aggravated by discrimination. Therefore, the text aims to regulate what is already regulated, in order to identify aggravating factors compared to what is already aggravated, in order to increase the repressive and punitive charge of conduct already punished, only for cases and situations of fact numerically limited and small, thus creating a peculiar case that makes victims of homosexual acts more victims of discrimination than others. Featured elements of the measure under vote include imprisonment of up to 18 months or a fine of up to 6,000 euros for those who generally commit acts of discrimination based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability. It also provides for six months to four years of imprisonment for those who instigate or commit violence for the same reasons or for those who participate or help organisations whose aims are to incite discrimination or violence for the same reasons. Again, for any crime committed for such purposes of discrimination and hatred the penalty is increased to half. Frankly, it is not understandable that the legislator provides for such aggravated sanctioning instruments in a criminal law such as ours, which recognizes and protects all citizens, regardless of sex, already punishes any discriminatory action and already severely punishes any violent conduct, even more if aggravated by grounds of hatred, futile or cruel. With the exclusion of the called gender identity, however, any other prediction of discrimination, hatred and violence is already widely foreseen by the law; it leaves much perplexed therefore the genericity of the measure, which could lend itself to different applications by the interpreter, both in the identification of acts in their indeterminate meaning, and with respect to the theme, whose contours are still fluctuating, of the gender identity. That being said, although it is understandable that an intervention, including legislative action, aimed at removing obstacles limiting the equality of citizens, preventing the freedom and full development of the human person, this intervention must find its genesis in the application of Article 3 of the Constitution and not in the emotional suggestion of some serious events, which have happened and which find our strongest condemnation. The task of the legislator is a normative production, all the more so if criminal, always weighted and never conditioned by the emotional thrust. Even more questionable would be a criminal prediction and sanction distorted by ideology, deaf to every call of wisdom in order to satisfy the desire of a cultural partisanry or a group of pressure. In principle, however, it is always a legislative hazard to divide and classify people into categories, protecting or protecting some more than others, as this would inevitably end up feeding, implementing or exacerbating a disparity. Attention to weak, fragile or more exposed persons whose situation of injury or danger deserved specific regulatory action cannot, in turn, create new types of discrimination or prejudice other fundamental and constitutionally guaranteed rights. In this sense, in truth, it is very concerned about the danger that the bill may impose restrictions on freedom of thought, a sort of crime of opinion whose relapse appears objectively antidemocratic and illiberal. Article 4 of the draft law under discussion is certainly the result of an unacceptable cultural position, which, through the penal repression of simple ideas, wants to establish a police of thought. It is objectively impossible, in concrete terms, to identify with preventive certainty which expressions of free thought are characterized by the ability to produce a danger of carrying out discriminatory or violent acts, especially if the meshes of the device were extended to be carried out abstractly by an indistinct plurality of third parties. Freedom of speech, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely to ensure that anyone can express ideas that are not shared, even provocative or pungent. Repressing freedom of speech means stifling the thought of those who do not want to adapt to the dominant positions. The establishment of censuses and gags inevitably results in the authoritarian regime. We do not want, cannot and must not allow any form of limitation of freedom of thought, speech, expression, manifestation and even the mobilization of dissent from this House. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, at this point I have to conclude, although I am only halfway through my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u51	Senator Barbaro, if it is only halfway through the speech, I think it is appropriate that you deliver the text. I can give you one more minute, but I would urge you to come to the conclusions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u52	BARBARO (FdI). Mr President, thank you for the extra time you have given me. In conclusion, no one must ever be discriminated against for their own tastes or preferences, where sexual behaviors and attitudes take place in relationships between consenting adults. We totally agree on that. However, you will never convince us that from this axiom that, I repeat, finds us absolutely favorable, can arise a model of repressive society against free opinions. [[Applause]] I request permission to hand over the remainder of my speech to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u53	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u54	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u55	Mr President, as I said earlier, I will ask you for a few more minutes. Preliminaryly, I want to say that I was wrong to photograph my colleague Pharaoh, although this is now a widespread practice. I admit the mistake, but my political judgment remains. Everyone is free to applaud, but everyone is free to give political meaning to individual actions. [[Applause]] Having said that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be easy or too short for me to speak, the first of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the signatory of this law. After so much disinformation and sterile political controversy, it is time to clarify. The Zan bill deals with social equality; the Zan bill deals with equality. It is concerned with fully implementing Article 3 of the Constitution, a fundamental rule on which there should be no difference between us. Yet, there are and there have been many differences, starting with the Senate Justice Commission, a Commission that has hindered, through the work of its President, the work on this text from the beginning, even remodulating 170 hearings, retracing also those done in the House. Having to vote on the incardination, as my colleague Mirabelli, Head of the Democratic Party in the Justice Commission, reminded us yesterday, is an unheard of thing. And when did the incardination unlock? It was unlocked when the public debate, when the debate on social media, when those influencers, who are bland but who, in my opinion, many fear, have raised their pitch on why the text was not incardinated. I am also thinking of the great mobilization of the LGBT world and the feminist world, culminated in a great appeal of 114 associations that ask us that this text be approved without amendment. We are asked for this text to be adopted without amendment. The Italian LGBT movement, in a virtually unitary way, says: "Better no law than a bad law." Now briefly, Mr President, I would like to say what the Zan text is about, in accordance with Article 3 of the Constitution. It punishes hate crimes, extending this already provided for by our laws, in particular by the Mancino law. It is not true that new offences are introduced; there is an extension of existing crimes, which are the fulfilment of discriminatory and violent acts and the incitement to commit them. The crime of propaganda of ideas is not extended; I repeat, the crime of propaganda of ideas is not extended, which remains limited to ideas based on racial hatred and ethnic hatred. These crimes, already foreseen, are extended to protect some fundamental dimensions of personality (sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability) and, for the same reasons, the special aggravating circumstance of the Mancino law is extended. Dear colleagues from Forza Italia, we are not content with the simple burden of Article 61; we need stronger safeguards for these subjectivity. We are and will remain free to say what we think, but we will not be free to incite hatred, discrimination and violence. Article 4 of the Zan bill does not put freedom of expression at risk: those who say so may want to continue to be free to spread hatred and fuel violence. No, it's not. Zan's bill does not in any way regulate the circulation of ideas in the public space of this country; it only protects the dignity of people, punishing only the proper conduct to determine a real danger of violence or discrimination. The second action that Zan's bill puts in place to apply Article 3 of the Constitution is to make culture. How many times have we heard in this House say that violence cannot be stopped only with the penal code, but can be fought with culture: think that yesterday even colleagues in the League said so. Here, the draft law Zan tries to make culture, providing, in article 7, the institution of the day of May 17, a day that already exists and that is already celebrated in public places and also in schools. You say he does it by ideologicalizing children, a petty and degrading fake news. Young people, as President Malpezzi has explained perfectly - will only try to make understood, in full respect of school autonomy, so schools will be able and will not have to - that the differences exist and that must be respected and this does not ask Monica Cirinna, witch, heretical and dangerous; the Constitution asks that promotes the culture of respect and inclusion, the only way to counter bullying. Zan's bill deals with this and nothing else. Every new fake news is a knife to the dignity of LGBT people: too many times we have seen it. With my personal and great pain, President La Russa, we heard in the auditions a former magistrate equate homosexuality with pedophilia: continuous stabbing to the most fragile people. [[Applause]] Few steps to remember the very long parliamentary process of this measure. By the way, thanks to my colleague Zan, who accepted a suggestion, we held for over a year an informal bicameral between members of the Senate and Chamber Justice Commissions. Many colleagues who have worked, interested in making a good law. I think, and thank you, to my colleague from Forza Italia, Giusy Bartolozzi, a valiant magistrate. I think, and thank you, to the lawyer Lucia Annibali, who has worked hard with us. I am thinking of the great generosity of President Laura Boldrini, who brought his text against misogyny into the Zan bill. Finally, I would like to extend my thanks to my colleague, Lisa Noja - who has been hit hard on social media - who has called for the introduction of protection for people with disabilities. In this text, then, whoever wanted introduced it, who wanted got it. Today, however, just on the points on which we have worked for a long time in the House, someone asks for a new discussion. What do we still have to discuss today? We have mediated on gender identity; we have mediated on schools; we have mediated on freedom of manifestation of thought. What other mediations are needed? What are the reasons why, having already voted on this text in the House, change your mind now? It seems clear to me that on the skin of LGBT people another game is being played; on the skin of the movement; on the skin of people with disabilities; on the thousands of women affected by misogyny. This tactical political game is not good for politics first. Mr President, I shall begin by bringing to this House the voice of the trans-people, who are the ignorant protagonists of this debate. We have been discussing gender identity for months, but - we know - we are doing this job without listening to the voice of the people directly concerned, who are asking for protection from the State for the way in which they live their gender identity, which all too often exposes them to discrimination and violence. We are dealing with a legal text, colleagues, not anthropological, sociological or philosophy. We're just trying to protect people who are discriminated against by violence. For this reason I would like to quote the words of Porpora Marcasciano, a historical trans activist, a person who - like it or not - has made the history of this country, tracing new paths for the freedom of all (Mr. President, be patient with me). [[Applause]] My name is Porpora Marcasciano, I am president of the Italian Movement of Trans Identity (MIT), militant activist of the LGBT+ Movement since the seventies. My voice is the same as 400,000 trans people (the estimate is from the Higher Institute of Health, stopped in 2019) and now more than ever I ask you not to block the Zan bill: it would embarrass abuse and violence that we are forced to suffer daily. Before speaking to you, I ask you to understand, or at least to deepen, the meaning that has for us the phrase "gender identity." No one has summoned us, no one has listened to us; our experience and our lives have not come to us. We would have liked that, because you're legalizing our lives. You think that Italy, according to the most recent statistics, is in first place in Europe for the number of transphobia victims. The Italian trans-Europeans ask the parliamentarians to adapt to the times and look around, especially at the so-called advanced and civilized countries, the democracies of which we so much rip our mouths off. Giving to us does not mean taking away from others, it means giving us and everyone a more beautiful and just society. Here are the words of Porpora Marcasciano; here is the explanation, Mr President and colleagues, of why the so-called mediation and the text of the Scalfarotto bill are not good. It is not the same as talking about transphobia and gender identity. If the subject matter of the norm is not mentioned, it does not exist; the trans community asks to exist and to be protected. I shall indeed conclude, Mr President, because I know that I have abused your kindness. Colleagues, I leave you this reflection: those who ask mediations are no longer credible. We're out of time now. Who wants to play the tower game? Who are we gonna throw down? Trans or in transition, excluding the definition of gender identity and leaving them without protection? Or do we want to throw Article 4 out of the tower, leaving the worst haters - outside and inside social media - free to trample on the dignity of fragile people? Or finally we want to throw education, culture out of the tower, the possibility that in schools we can choose - I said "may" - what to teach our children? No, colleagues, we don't play tower games, we don't leave anyone behind. We want this law to be passed as it is, to protect all people from violence. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would ask you to attach the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u56	Senator Cirinna, as you could see, the passion of your speech - whether it be beyond accession - has allowed you to be given more time than your colleagues have been given, because you asked me to do so. In any case, the Presidency authorizes it. She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking about the final aim of the vote on the Zan draft law, because the choice, if you look at it, is not trivially in the sense of expressing a yes or a no on it, but rather of reconfirming or, vice versa, maiming our freedom of opinion. This is really what it is, behind the mask of giving protection to those who, in fact, already have it today. The proof of the correctness of my conviction lies precisely in that unfortunate article 4, which has been very striking and which literally reads: "Pluralism of ideas and freedom of choice" 1. For the purposes of this law, the free expression of convictions or opinions as well as legitimate conduct relating to pluralism of ideas or freedom of choice shall be without prejudice to this law. They are saved: and by whom? From a bill? Is it without prejudice to our freedom of expression and opinion? We have not noticed that Article 21 of the Constitution has been repealed. We certainly did not need a bill to see our sacred freedoms recognized. The law of the law, which is our Constitutional Charter, has already done this for us. And, as if that were not enough, such a salvation clause is useless, which, always in the body of the same Article 4, is followed by a very dangerous prediction, namely that those freedoms are made safe provided that they are not suitable to determine the concrete danger of the fulfilment of discriminatory or violent acts. I wonder and ask you: who decides on the suitability to determine the real danger? It is clear that the judiciary will decide. Do you have any idea how much discretion we're deciding to hand over to the judges? I don't think that's fair. In front of what, then? Why should we pay this high price? Perhaps because Zan and his bishops who go on television tell us about the urgency of the repression of this pseudo-danger of homophobia? They push us and tell us that we have to hurry, because it is a matter of vital importance. And, in the light of this presumed vital importance, they actually propine us... (Brussio). Mr President, I would kindly ask you to ask Members not to speak so close. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, you are quite isolated from your colleagues, but I am happy to make the appeal. The Senators of the Democratic Party do not disturb the colleague who is speaking. LONARDO (Mixed). Thank you, too kind. I repeat: why should we pay this high price? Is it because Zan and his bishops come to tell us that this is a vital measure, so they push us and tell us that we have to hurry? And, in the light of this presumed vital importance, we are in fact given a bill that is badly done, broken down and with side effects, flagging to the four twenty very dubious and very unofficial statistics, as has also been pointed out by colleagues who preceded me. We must make it clear that, if such a rule ever passed, there would be a danger that everyone might have their own idea about homosexuals and transsexuals, about transsexuality. With the kind of justice that exists in Italy, there would also be the risk that an association could sue for incitement to hatred where someone ventured to express the most banal statements, such as that for which marriage is only that between man and woman. There would even be a risk of bringing into court a flood of opinions that are absolutely not incitements to hatred. It is useless: the Zan bill does not serve; we already have laws that prohibit physical aggression and it should only be applied, as is the case with so many others, that there are and are not applied. I believe that we do not need further distinctions and discrimination between human beings; we need more social culture and more civic sense: we do not beat a human being regardless of whether or not he is gay, disabled or his skin has a different color than ours. It's no more serious if you hit a lesbian than a woman. It is serious to beat up and the fact that there are futile reasons is already present in our legislation. It is possible for many to have these differences, for those who find in this way a profitable ghettoization, perhaps even economically. Evidence that in many countries, in Northern Europe, there are no more streets and gay clubs or so-called rainbow districts. I would like to live in a country where men and women are the same and the locals are for everyone - gay, straight or lesbian - without ghettoization disguised as freedom. It will not be with the Zan bill that we will educate our society to integrate, accept and welcome others. In order to do this, a Copernican revolution is necessary, involving the main educational agencies and both shared and peaceful with them, starting from respect for the recognition of the other, elegantly alphabetizing our young people, so that they make an evolutionary leap from instinct to emotion and emotion to feeling. We are all the same: we will be all the same, we will no longer need the gay street next to the Colosseum in Rome, but we will have cities open in the same way, without really discriminating anyone. I would like to share with you other concerns and worrying comments that I have made on the draft law under discussion. I am thinking in particular of the subject of self-id or gender self-perception, which has already caused many problems where it is in force. There are countless examples of this gender impact on women. Think about what happened in California where, under the new self-id law, nearly 300 male inmates who self-perceive women have asked to enter women's prisons, terrorizing inmates. In Canada, where this has already happened, sexual violence or even pregnancy and cases of sexually transmitted diseases have occurred. Think also of the male bodies involved in women's sports competitions. There is no talk of this in the newspapers, yet at the next Olympics the issue could be blurring. Also according to the self-id, various men occupy political positions and, in general, jobs that according to the pink quotas should be reserved for women. Even in these cases, the percentage of sexual assaults committed by men who identify themselves as women grows. This happens in other countries and, from what I have said, it does not seem to me that we are faced with a good practice that deserves to be replicated in other systems, indeed, I would say that perhaps it is the case to take advantage of such inadequacy and dysfunctions in order to stay far away from such changes, that do not improve the system, but embrace it. Finally, let me spend my last remarks on Article 7, which at one stroke endangers the freedom of education, the primacy of parents and the education of children. Having the stated objective of combating discrimination on grounds of sex, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity, in fact the draft law Zan shows that the aim is to promote gender ideology, which denies the sexual dimension of the human being and considers the natural difference between man and woman a mere social construction. Not by chance, the bill speaks of gender identity, an expression that indicates the sense of belonging of a person to a genre with which it identifies itself according to how it is perceived at a given moment (fluidity of the genre). Well, the primacy of parental education is not only provided for in Article 30 of our Constitutional Charter, but it is also enshrined internationally. According to Article 26 of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, parents are universally granted the right of priority to choose the type of education to be given to their children and, in accordance with Article 2 of the Protocol to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the State, in the exercise of its duties in the field of education and teaching, must respect the right of parents to ensure such education and teaching according to their religious and philosophical beliefs. It is clear that such philosophical, religious and pedagogical beliefs must be lawful and worthy of protection according to the institutions of the Member State. If, as a parent, I did not want my son to be taught gender culture, rather educating him to respect all diversity, leaving out of the educational moment themes that I consider highly propagandistic, could I or not? I ask you, fellow senators, and if I could, I would also ask Mrs von der Leyen. Recent studies in the United Kingdom show that cases of so-called gender dysphoria tend to emerge in groups of children by imitation: we already have anorexia by imitation, I think we should reflect. I have listened very carefully to President Ostellari, who has made us aware of the progress that the measure has had in the Commission. He spoke to this House with reference to documents and documents deposited and therefore also available for consultation. He asked for attention, discussion and respect for everyone's ideas; for a wall against a wall had to be reached, I honestly do not explain it. The Conference of Leaders decided that the amendments could be tabled and I hope that the conditions will be created to accept the reasons of all, that there will be a way to sit around a table and that we will be able to accept and not reject the debate; if the draft law under consideration were to be unanimously voted on and amended, that would be a good signal. I really hope that the conclusion of this affair will eliminate unnecessary ideological oppositions. I would particularly like to address Mr Letta, who is the heir of Aldo Moro's Catholic democratic tradition and pupil of Nino Andreatta; I hope that he does not continue to stiffen up, driving down a culture and history made of distinctions, yes, but also of respect. The struggle of democracy requires confrontation and vocation to understanding, especially when there are different principles and values in the field. On these aspects, so to speak, over-politicians always need a high mediation, which is not compromised downwards. In politics sovereignisms and dogmatisms must be banned, while we must recover that wise moroteal realism of the possible, which takes on the views of others in order to arrive at a confluence between distinct. In the event of a decision to reject the amendments, mistakenly, creating an illogical situation outside the morotea logic to which many of us are still inspired and to which many still refer, I will see myself forced to vote against. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u59	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in my speeches in this House I have always been very moderate and possibile, but today on this subject I mean everything I think. I hope I can grow old, finish this experience, and walk the streets of my province without being insulted by those who do not agree with the bill in question. Let me explain better: all the people I have met in recent weeks - and I don't frequent bad associations, but ordinary people (catholics engaged, right-wing and left-wing voters, working people) - have expressed their opposition to the concepts of the bill under consideration. Everyone. I may not be able to attend those other people who think of it as stated earlier (those 135 associations). In my opinion, the Zan bill cannot be amended, because if we remove the gender identity from Article 1, the discretion of the judge too high and school education, there is nothing left for us; at most, there can be a worsening of the current penalties for discrimination, on which we can discuss. However, in my opinion, the current text is detrimental to the development of society. There are new fashionable theorists, such as Fedez, and the LGBT lobby, which is very powerful, especially on television and in part of culture, and which has given birth to a text that goes beyond the needs and needs to be protected. I'll explain why. It legislates on themes that are pre-political: society existed before the birth of the State. The family existed before and was regulated in its relationships: I think of natural law or the same psychology, conscious or unconscious. The growth of children, our growth, has been discreet and gradual within the family, especially on certain values. To think that the state should educate on everything is a communist concept, which applies in North Korea and perhaps in a few other states. There is the history of humanity, made up of ups and downs: in this regard, broadening the concept a little, they are among those who believe that we must not apologize for anything, because perhaps we would have done so too. There is, if anything, a vision that is relevant to religious conceptions; among other things, Muslims or part of them (it is a very complex structure that Muslims) are also opposed to this law. According to the Catholic religion - in the spirit of Benedict Cross, we cannot but say Christians - there is a doctrine drawn from the Letters of St Paul, or the Magisterium of Wojtyla and Ratzinger (I quote those who, in my opinion, are in complete and perfect Orthodoxy), according to which the non-negotiable principles of the Church are there. The cardinals who express themselves otherwise are out of Orthodoxy. Having succumbed little by little - I spoke with a Catholic in recent days - also on questions that seemed not too significant to appear modern, conformed and to be osanned by the laity and above all by the lay people, has led the Church to this point: it can express itself only in relation to what is written in the Concordat, which is important, but it is not the substance, but the form. Today the Church has reduced to being founded on environmentalism and acceptance, forgetting the vertical and eschatological dimension. This is very serious and we hope that there will be a school, like that of the monks of the Middle Ages of Cluny, that will bring back strength and vigour to the Church, as much as it deserves. Even so many gays I know, who live individually or in pairs, are against this law. They live with dignity and respect their situation, which is now conceived as normal. Respect is mutual among heterosexuals and homosexuals, who respect each other and with dignity. I repeat that this is very important. This law is the antechamber of the uterus for rent, an offensive practice of the woman, especially the poor ones, who become the object of it. The easy spread of practice and gender theories and of what they involve in education and in the transformations, even radical, of children are almost against nature, according to my conception. The judge's discretion, as already stated, in the opinions, ex Article 4, is too wide and will be dangerous. Do you think that they can be put in the place of the proletariat, which was at the center of the attentions of the left parties, the gays and these arguments? Do you think those who represent these trends are smarter? Do you think - or a part of those in favor think - that the Government is only of certain parties and not of others, who are welcomed, but only as poor relatives, why do they have a stain from their birth? It's not like that. What company do we want? In a society where the Zan law is applied, what role do you think it has in birth, which we so much talk about when we deal with family or child support? If we were all like this, there would be no more births. Then why are we defending her? A similar society, according to your conception, is immersed in socio-assistance issues, created and maintained indefinitely, in order to favour associations receiving public contributions (see immigration and the new centres provided for in Article 8 of the bill under consideration). You think there's a company that's having fun. And how does he live? He lives according to traditional concepts, those of our countries and our communities. How do you enjoy it? He enjoys himself in a normal way and there are many beautiful and interesting things, if done well. Is it a society that produces, grows and pays the debt, when it is so confused? On my behalf, the Zan law is the continuation of a nihilistic concept and design of society; then there will be euthanasia (there is already a bill circulating). There are the same symptoms, in my opinion, of the fall of the Roman Empire. With all the strength, therefore, I believe there are also in the favorable lineup people who are in crisis of conscience and who have a history like mine and like many of those who vote no. I shall vote no in every way, just as Forza Italia will do, however leaving freedom of conscience, as Berlusconi has always preached. I invite you to meditate on what may be decided with small majorities: it is a question that needs to be deepened and, if anything, approved with broad majorities, as is being done on other subjects, all of which are very important, especially in this moment of crisis and transformation of society. I take advantage of the possibility of having half a minute to repeat that I am also strongly opposed to a change. This law cannot pass. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u60	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a draft law: this is a plan for a new humanity. We want to use a fair and shared battle, that against all forms of unjustified aggression, making it a staple to transform the very foundations of our society. Let's see if I can prove it in the minutes I've been given. It is a man's plan that is already denounced by Article 1, where natural words such as "sex" are replaced, provided for by our Constitution and simply by the naturalness of the human being, with "genere", "sexual orientation" and "genere" identity. What is gender identity? I think that many people in this House are ignoring what gender identity really is. This, currently codified for example on the Facebook site, amounts to 58 different identities that, in addition to male and female, also include gay, lesbian, bisexual, transsexual, transgender, cisgender, queer, pansexual, intersexual, non-binary genre, genderqueer, androgynous, asexual, agenderflux, demisesexual, grey asexual, aromantic. And I could go on for hours. Are we really convinced that presenting to our children the alternative between these gender identities is a good way to raise them free, serene and balanced? I believe that offering all these gender identities is actually to take away the identity of our children, our children. I would like to read the words of Keira Bell, an English girl who made a gender transition when she was 16. She was convinced in her school to make a transition and then had her breast amputated and had her genitals transformed after a long period of treatment with puberty blockers. His words, after winning the lawsuit against the Tavistock and Portman clinic in London: "You can't make decisions like sixteen years and so fast. Guys at that age must be listened to and not immediately indulged. I paid for the consequences, with serious physical damage. But this is not good, we need serious changes. This is happening not in the unknown Third World countries, but in the very civilized London, in the very civilized Great Britain, where years ago a law was passed, the Equality Act, which is very similar to the Zan bill. Thanks to the Equality Act, all forms of resistance by doctors, hospital staff, teachers and parents themselves to the gender transition of minors have been labeled homophobia. Since you don't believe me, I invite you to read some books. They are in English, because of course they are not translated into Italian. "Christians in the firing line," for example, written by Dr. Richard Scott, tells how, always in the civilized Great Britain, a magistrate lost his job and was dismissed simply for writing in a sentence that children, in the event of adoption, have the right to be adopted by a couple with mom and dad and not by a couple of people of the same sex. He was fired and his name is Andrew McClintock. Not only that: there is another case - I could go on reading them for hours - of a community pediatrician who lost his cause against the English health service and was fired for scientifically proving that children grow better in a context in which parenting is made up of mom and dad. In the book there are many other cases and I remember the title: "Christians in the firing line". It is remarkable that what I have heard in this House today contrasts radically with the evidence of countries in which texts similar to the Zan bill are already in force. I also invite you to read "What are they teaching our children" which is a very interesting text in English on the ideologies that are used to indoctrinate children, from the earliest age, in which one basically goes to teach that any kind of child's feeling must be immediately indulged and followed. I would like to tell this House the story of a Canadian father named Robert Hoogland. You all have Google and you can look for its name: Robert Hoogland has not resigned to the fact that his little girl, at high school, at the age of twelve - those from us are middle school, in Canada are already higher - had been convinced in her school to begin the gender transition. He has always refused to go along with it, because he felt it was wrong. The judge, not later than two months ago, sentenced him to six months in prison and $30,000 in fine simply for using his daughter's female pronoun she and continuing to call her by her name as a child. That was his little girl. These are not inventions, but stories of countries that have followed this path before us and are now going back. The Tavistock and Portman clinic in London is now under judicial attack and half of the doctors of one of the gender's world cathedrals have resigned. The signal that is coming is that the gender theory must be completely revised, but we find it splattered in Article 1 of the bill under consideration, which defines the person regardless of their sex. We also have a huge problem from the point of view of freedom of speech. I have already told the Commission - and I would also like to do so in this House - the story of a Protestant pastor, John Sherwood, seventy-two years old, who was dragged away in handcuffs, in April 2021, in the London subway - so, again, not in a barbaric, but civilized country - on the charge of homophobia, because, like every Friday, he had gone to the subway station to read God's word. That morning he read the passage of Genesis in which it says "male and female" he created them; he allowed himself to add that for us Christians marriage is only between man and woman, but there was a couple of lesbians, who felt discriminated against and appealed to the Equality Act, calling the police, who intervened, arrested and handcuffed him, dragging him away in the midst of the crowd. Please watch on the Internet the video of John Sherwood's arrest, who was held for 24 hours at the police station and is now on trial for homophobia. Do you think these things will not happen? It is clear that at this moment everyone tells you that freedom is absolutely not in danger and, indeed, you can continue to say that you are against the womb for rent. However, I tell you that this will not happen, because the uterus for rent is exactly the reproductive right of the Samesex couple. If someone told you that you didn't have to reproduce, would you feel discriminated against? Of course I do! In the same way, no one can say that a same sex couple must be excluded from the use of the uterus for rent, because that would discriminate against it in one of its rights, that is the reproductive one. Let us be careful, because propaganda is a speech and the various Fedez on duty are another, but here we should have the courage to see them not only with the eyes of ideologies or with the glasses of the political party of belonging, but with the head of who knows how to see the consequences that in other countries have generated unacceptable injustices. [[Applause]] Since we're still in time, please, let's stop and reason. Only a man can be a father: this sentence will be discriminatory, because there are the so-called seahorse dads, who are actually women, but who have made the transition, bombarding themselves with hormones, and therefore have the beard, the hairs and everything that is needed to be men, except the genitals, who have kept women; at that point, they can remain pregnant, but they want to be called "dad" and call them moms or women will automatically become discrimination. Go and see what happened to the godmother of Harry Potter, the English author Rowling, who allowed herself to write on the Internet that the word "woman" cannot be replaced by the definition "individual that menstruation" because that expression is discriminatory towards the woman. He dared to say those words. Well, it was bombed and massacred on social media, because it has been said that it does not respect men who menstruate. Is that what this is about? Are we to the point of no longer knowing how to distinguish male from female? Then these will not be bizarre theories that Senator Pillon stirs up in the Chamber, frightening the crowd of bystanders: they will become criminal sanctions and I am ready to swear in this House that a judge in Italy - but they will be more than one - will condemn someone, because he dared to say that women have monthly cycles and males do not. It will be considered serious discrimination. Again, have you read Articles 5 and 6 of this bill? Have you read the crazy ancillary penalties for anyone who dares discriminate or incites discrimination on the basis of the autonomy of thought of who feels man, even if she is a woman? Well, the ancillary penalties, in addition to jail, are also those of the counterfeit, because this poor condemned, perfidious homophobe, will lose his driving license, passport, political rights, the right to make political propaganda and obviously that to the hunting license, but even his own dignity, because he will be forced to do socially useful jobs at the LGBT associations, for the penalty of the counterfeit. This includes Articles 5 and 6. Have you read Article 7? I listened carefully to President Malpezzi, who tried to tell us, in this regard, that there is school autonomy; of course the parents can sign the plan of the training offer and choose the school based on it, but if all the POFs will contain the gender ideology - because this law will require all schools to celebrate the day against homophobia, biphobia, lesbophobia and transphobia - how will the parents? Either they're gonna do school at home, that is, parental school, or they're gonna have to keep their kids ignorant. [[Applause]] Dear Senator Malpezzi, we are also able to read, believe us on the word, but we are also able to do so in English and, I repeat, I strongly advise you to read "What are they teaching our children?" I'm sure you know English very well, but since it's a bit harsh, I invite you to read a much more Italian text, the guidelines of the Lazio Region, which were precipitously withdrawn, in which it was written that it's good practice to indulge the children in the transition, obviously from the earliest age, and even guarantee the career aliases. I do not know if you know what it is in this House, but I will explain it to you: it means that a child of any age, from two years of age up, arrives at school and says that he is Simone, but that he feels Simona on that day. From that moment on, the teacher, the compañeros and the principal, all, must call her Simona and relate to her as if she were one and must go to the women's bathroom. Does this seem normal to you? Does that sound right to you? [[Applause. Comments]] Great. Since you rightly admit that this is a fair thing and you claim it as such and there will of course be publications that will be used in schools to teach gender; we will have the story of the prince on the dick, the story of the cat with boots. That's all: "Fiabe d'altro genre" (Fiabe d'altro genre). I invite you to read this little book, which will certainly be used, along with many others that I have not brought to this House. And since you think this is absolutely right, I invite you to read the words of the German parents who were arrested for refusing to take their children to school because that day there was a gender lesson. They kept their kids home and were arrested for it. To you who are the laicists and the champions of the secularism of the State I ask one thing: because the hour of religion is of choice, while the hour of gender will be mandatory with this bill, where is the freedom of choice of parents? Where is the freedom of education provided for in Article 30 of the Constitution? [[Applause]] As always, there are two nice weights and two nice sizes. When something is convenient to the left, then it is necessary to impose on the people ox and ignorant; when, instead, one thing is convenient to another orientation that is not that of the left, then it becomes absolutely optional because we must respect... and so on. Since we are talking about culture, I also invite you to read Walter Schumm's book Same-sex parenting research. It is a very interesting research, published obviously in English because in Italy these things are not put into circulation (and certainly not by Feltrinelli), in which it is explained what the results are when you grow children with two mothers or with two dads. The nice thing they come to tell me is that anyway it's better than being in orphanage. The poor children also grow up like that, but we have to look for the best, especially for those children who have been so unlucky that they have lost their mom and dad. The best means building conditions for them to find a couple, mom and dad, who look as much as possible like the couple that has been taken away from them by nature, chance or misfortune. We, instead, go to replace and, therefore, increase the damage and use people already unlucky in themselves to do social experiments; and then we discover that these social experiments fail, but you can't say why anyone says that children grow better with their mom and dad rather than with two dads or two moms - which, translated, means orphans of mom or dad, as the case may be - is homophobic and intolerant and we give them even a year and a half of jail time to be safe. It is not with jail that these things are resolved, but with attention, care, delicacy, but also with intellectual honesty to say that the father is male, the mother is female, that parent one and parent two is not social justice, it is not equity, it is not respect. [[Applause]] First we have to respect children; then we respect adults. Children's rights come first and then the desires or whims - there are also those - of adults. This rule puts us in a very dangerous condition because it goes to build a new humanity in which everything will be a family because, at that point, two men will be a family and two women will be a family. At that point, why not three or four? It would be discriminatory and, therefore, everything will be a family and no more will be a family. There is no society that survived the destruction of the family. No way. I do not know what will happen in this House. Today's figures make it very good to hope that many Members have understood that there is a concern that should be rightly supported, but that, on the other hand, however, a dangerous ideological drift cannot be ignored. If everything becomes a family and, therefore, nothing more is a family, society becomes a coacervo of individuals and no more of people. I come to the conclusion of my reasoning not without reporting you one last book. This is a report that was presented to the Senate two weeks ago on violations of fundamental freedoms caused by homotransphobia laws. They are all extremely concrete, documented cases, in which it is evident that the danger that laws similar to the Zan bill become a sort of boomerang for civil freedom, for freedom of education, for freedom of thought, for freedom of speech, for freedom of worship is absolutely concrete. There is a nice story, which I also published on my channel, which tells of a transsexual gentleman, a male, who asked to enter a cloister of clarisses in Belgium. It sounds like a joke, but it's a real story. This gentleman felt discriminated against and on the other hand the only reason why his inscription and his adherence to this cloister was that he was a male; therefore objectively he was discriminated against on the basis of his sex. There is also another case of a lady who was denied entry into a Catholic seminary and the only reason why she was excluded is that she was female and there is no other reason; therefore, it is true, she was discriminated against on the basis of her sexual identity. But are we convinced that everything is the same, that everything is identical, that everything is the same level, that everything is possible? Are we convinced that any kind of choice, based on an anthropological vision based on the naturalness of the male and female difference or - wanting to make the Pillon at all costs - a vision based on one's religious faith no longer has the freedom to be defined, told, lived and no longer has the freedom to become a tradition, a way of living society? I am convinced that this is the greatest mistake we can make. The society did not build itself yesterday and it is not that the gender theorists have arrived to discover that male and female are the cause of all the disasters, of all the injustices of the world and that therefore they go "painted" for a globalized world, in which it is possible to sell nail polish for males and females. No, there are differences and, as Churchill said, lucky that there are those wonderful differences, blessed those differences. We, as legislators, must not give ourselves as a limit that of a law at all costs. I think we have a real chance, which is to deal with the phenomenon, if there is one. I have data, I haven't mentioned them until today, but today I quote them. I made an official request to the Oscad Centre for Security against Discriminatory Acts, which is the interforce office dedicated to combating discrimination, and I was answered. Do you know how many reports (which does not mean complaints or convictions) there are every year for discrimination on the basis of this? That's 66 cases in two years, 33 cases every year. There is an official data and if you want you can ask the OSCAD. Is there a phenomenon? Yes, thank goodness it's very small. You're gonna tell me a case is serious, too. I agree with you: even a case is serious. But it's not that emergency, it's not that drama you wanted to tell yourself. There are limited cases; we must give answers to these cases. As I have already said, from my personal point of view (I do not commit my Group, but I speak for myself), the laws in force are sufficient. Find me a case that's free of punishment today. Anyone who attacks, anyone who defames, anyone who threatens, anyone who causes personal injury, anyone who pays attention to someone else's life, anyone who unfairly fires, anyone who unfairly excludes: all conducts that have sanctions, in almost all cases criminal sanctions. Are there any pipelines that need to be integrated? Let's look for them together. Are there any sanctions that must be aggravated in your opinion or in our view? Let's look for them together. On this I guarantee - and Pillon says - that there is no foreclosure. The House is not divided into two, on the one hand the homophobes and on the other the good people; it does not work that way. Here is an Assembly that is divided because it wanted to incorporate an unacceptable ideology into a bill that had another purpose. [[Applause]] We all exulted for Italy that won the European Final. It was interesting to see what was the first reaction of our beneamers, of the players. They didn't call parent 1 or parent 2. Mom's been called! [[Applause]] They called Mom and said, "Hi, Mom, look how good I was. I won. We Italians have valuable antibodies against these ideologies that come from a vision of man matured in university colleges in North America. Because these ideologies have a name and a surname: they are called Judith Butler, they are called Donna Haraway, they are called by the name of philosophers and anthropologists convinced that only by overcoming male and female sexual binaryism will we have a more just society. It's not like that! Please go and see Swedish society and Northern European societies, where all this is already happening. I'll tell you again. I've already said that, and I'll say it one more time. We have this possibility. We're a step back and still haven't fallen into the ravine. Maybe we can make it. Maybe we can take a step back. In order to do this, however, it is necessary that all together we realize the overcoming of every ideological scheme. Are we gonna make it? Frankly, I don't know. Frankly, I'm not convinced. The possibility, however, we have given it to ourselves. The debate will continue for days. I put books on the table. I put publications on the table. I am at the disposal of all my colleagues who want to learn even better about this. Please do not vote for this bill as a quisque de populo would vote for it. Deepen up every single norm, even those who are already convinced, in one sense or another, are good to deepen and evaluate every single word, because we are deciding what the future of our country will be. Marilena Grassadonia, from the stage of the Pride, said it clearly. He had a value, that of truth, when he said: the Zan bill is only the beginning. Then we'll want an equal marriage. Then we'll want the uterus for rent. Then we want gay adoption and then we want gender teaching in schools. All things that have been declared from one stage, in front of parliamentarians belonging to two groups present here applauding. Tell us clearly, then. Is this the project you have in mind? If this is the project you have in mind, we will never follow you and we will wage war here and there, with all the weapons that democracy puts in our hands. 12:18 p.m. (PILLON followed). Because a society without a family is a society without a future; because a society in which we take away children from their parents is a society without a future and a dead society. A society in which one can no longer say that a man is male and a woman is female is a society that has nothing more to say. That is what we must tell our young people, that is what we must tell our children! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u62	Senator Maiorino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u63	Mr President, I am outraged. I would like to say that I have even been annihilated, because it has been for months now, not just now and not only now in this House, that we have heard for the umpteenth time a row of fake news fire that, over time, constantly pounding, through newspapers, television and declarations, even in the classrooms of the highest institutions have raised a curtain of toxic smoke. A curtain of toxic smoke, through which you can no longer see the truth. We no longer see, first of all, the text of the law in question, but above all that smokescreen has made people disappear: the people whom this law deals with; the people who are our fellow citizens and citizens who ask, who know, that for twenty-five years they need protection. And they need protection because all of a sudden we've all become non-homophobic in this country. We have become the country where gays, lesbians and transgenders can live in the most wonderful reality in the world and in Europe. No one has a problem with homosexuality, either in here or out there. It's amazing that we didn't notice it before and we also have the brazenness to report only the cases of the OSCAD (Observatorio per la sicurezza contro gli atti discriminationi), 30 per l'anno, with the same game that has been played for decades on domestic violence and violence against women: "those reported are so few. The problem doesn't exist." It's the same thing. People do not denounce because they do not have the tools to be protected; they do not denounce because it makes no sense to denounce, if homotransphobia is not recognized at criminal level. They don't report it because, denouncing, they come out most of the time and at home our young people still can't say they're gay, lesbian or transgender because they're kicked out of the house. I have not heard of this in this House, because that is what is being discussed, not the cases reported by Britain in a piercing of some unknown newspaper. Unbelievable stories are told and are represented as if they were on the agenda. In the Committee on Justice we have had to undergo the same treatment: 170 hearings and in all and have expressed positions strictly contrary to this law, even reported as the unique positions, both of lawyers and feminists as well as of the LGBT world. Know, ladies and gentlemen, that the LGBT world has never been as united as in supporting this bill, and you know it very well because like me you have received the appeal of over 140 associations - not one, but 140 associations - who ask to approve it. [[Applause]] But do not say it and what is not said is also a lie, because words matter. I have heard Mr Pillon make the list, even in a sarcastic and ironic way, of all the possible definitions with which the LGBT world describes itself (54) and has talked about it with that grin of teasing that is exactly what has kept under check these people and the LGBT world. Yes, words matter: that list, which can be found ludicrous by someone, indicates the richness of human nature that you will never defeat as much as you cling to your ideology. Human nature is multiform and the forms are many and are different. They cannot find hotels in our culture and in our society only two forms of human nature, but they must find hotels all the varied richness of the same, which so far has been denied and deny this means denying the evidence. Until recently homosexuality was persecuted under the law here in Italy too. Today we all find ourselves liberal and not homophobic, but it's an incredible thing, it doesn't hold up. As I said at the beginning, the smoke screen of fake news has hidden people; not only that, it has also upset the truth of responsibilities. No more than a few minutes ago, in fact, my colleague Pharaoh declared that the Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars have a moral duty to discuss and find solutions: if they continue to perch, they will be responsible to the country for this failure. This is a very obvious reversal of responsibilities. Who should we seek this mediation with? I ask Senators Pharaoh and Renzi with whom we must seek this mediation. We must look for her, perhaps, with whom, as the Umbrian Childhood Guarantor, has declared that sexual orientation towards things, animals or people of all kinds and ages and polygamy and incest will no longer be a taboo? And instead of removing from that delicate position the Guarantor for childhood and adolescence, a person who says that homosexuality is comparable to having sex with animals and is comparable to pedophilia, what do colleagues Salvini and Pillon do? They say: we finally have a serious and competent person to play this role in a courageous way. And with these people should we seek mediation to counter discrimination against homolesbobytransphobia? [[Applause]] And then again, the Movimento 5 Stars is proudly the author of all the active policies contained in this bill. Only the criminal prosecution was contained in all the draft laws, but we wanted the listening desks and shelter centers; we wanted the infamous paths in the schools that you continue to defame affirming the false: just now my colleague Malpezzi showed you, cards to the hand, that there is no obligation for the courses to respect and not to sexual education. Instead, you continue to spread your lies on people's skin. This debate, which has become so harsh and ideologically so foolish, is affecting the LGBT community, because aggression, attacks, discrimination and bullying have increased. But you are blind because you have not seen - pretend you have not seen - the squares full of people, not only of LGBT people, but of civil society. From Rome, Milan, Turin, Palermo, Naples, everywhere [[Applause]] They have sent people to the streets in defense of this bill; very young people who do not do your problems at all and who look at us stunned. Mr President, last week we voted on the law of constitutional change to lower the age for the electorate active in the Senate: now even 18-year-olds will be able to vote on it. Let's give him a reason to get passionate about politics, because this is not a dignified spectacle and it is not a show that young people can look at as an example. What is at stake is an educational bill in all senses: yes, it is feared for this very reason. Mr Pillon's words - as an expert librarian should know - bring things out of the dark: fiat lux. Things have to be called by their own name and you don't have to put a pitch on them because you don't want to call them by your own name. People have also struggled to recognize themselves because they did not have the words to define themselves. It is time for this to end and for all people to be free to be themselves. I conclude by saying that we can be homophobes both if we are illiterate and illiterate, but even if we have three more degrees. The illustrious jurist who is quoted in this House as a lighthouse in relation to the criticalities of this law, President Flick, is the same jurist who said that sexual orientation is a private fact and that the legislator should not go into the matter. Sexual orientation is a social fact: this is precisely what the bill in question states; gender identity is a social fact. And this is what the right cannot accept: the social legitimacy of the different Italian natures. And that is why we, on the other hand, will continue to support this bill and will not accept downward mediations on people's skin. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u64	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u65	Mr President, first of all I would like to give Caesar what is Caesar's and give to the "sen" Malpezzi and the "sen" Licheri - so they will not feel offended by gender aggression - and give to their parties, the Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars, the absolute paternity they claim of this bill. Italians need to know. They must know that this law belongs to you, ladies and gentlemen. We in the centre-right are proud of these demands; we are proud that the Italians recognize in you the authors and supporters of this text of law. At a time when our country is in the grip of a serious health and economic crisis, at a time when, Mr President, we have a National Recovery and Resilience Plan that - let's not forget - is indebted to us for hundreds of billions and that, however, we need a short time of reforms, of unblocking procedures, while we have companies waiting for measures to get out of the crisis, while you can do nothing but block redundancies because in terms of active policies still yesterday, in the confrontation with the economic parties, you did not have a draft real proposal, while blocking evictions because you are unable to make social policies for the home, in short, while we are in the full health and pandemic crisis, in the full economic crisis, while we are talking about the fourth wave and therefore there are still no measures to respond to the problem of school or transport, while the country suffers for these problems, what do you do? Lock Parliament down on this bill for weeks, because that will happen and we will talk about it. Therefore, assume all the responsibilities in front of the Italians. Colleagues, after the ius soli, the free landing, the tax of succession, we wait for nothing more than the secretary Letta and the allies of the Movimento 5 Stars, who on these issues often travel together, continue on this road, but every day the Italians are responding to you failing in all the surveys and in all the checks that are made. From this point of view we can only I'm glad to hear that. Entering into the matter, Brothers of Italy also tells you that you have little to rejoice in a liberticidal law. You have the "deserve" of having introduced, as Mr Balboni well explained yesterday, the criminal law of the inner state of mind, that is, a criminal law - for those who understand by law - which has only been applied in the national socialist regime and in that of the communist Soviet republics. This is your law of freedom. From the benches of the Democratic Party, the Left and the Movimento 5 Stars I hear about a law of freedom and extension of rights: do you realize that you are going to hit liberal freedoms, liberal values, democratic values, freedom of thought, ladies and gentlemen? Be assured that this law will not be passed, the first to know it is you, because within you there is so much dissent not proclaimed because you do not allow it, but the accounts we will soon do and you will see that this text will not pass because it is against liberal values, prevents free thought, it is a liberticidal text that, in a democratic and liberal state which is what exists in our country, cannot and cannot pass. And we'll see about that soon. Why do I say it's a liberticide bill? Just read the articles, colleagues. When I had to support - and I will, rest assured, even in case of approval - my ideas, my religious beliefs, my concept of natural family, the fact that I consider an abomination the uterus for rent, it is obvious, it is in re ipsa that at that time I create discrimination. It is obvious that at a time when I claim that the rented uterus is an abomination and that the family must be the natural one of a man and a woman, at that time I create potentially discrimination, so I am liable to sentence under the penal code. This is the reality of the facts, ladies and gentlemen, other than freedom and rights; you are not creating rights, you are abolishing rights and, what is worse, you are abolishing the rights of free thought, going against religion. Not for nothing did the Catholic religion, such as the Islamic religion, express their deep regret and protest. You are violating, as Mr Malan said this morning, the concordat rules; you are violating every right to impose the law of one thought. You want to impose the LGBT community, ignoring the rights of other citizens, Catholics, religious, liberals, those who believe and do not believe, but who want to continue to be able to express their thoughts freely without being silenced by you and the judiciary and therefore be indicted and perhaps even sentenced to four years in prison. Dear colleagues, to silence opponents with jail is precisely authoritarian regimes; it was in China and it was in Cuba that this was done and certainly also in the Nazi regimes, where in fact there was that criminal law of the inner state of mind that I mentioned before. That's where you want to take the country. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it must be clear to everyone who supports this bill and who does not support it. Today we will impose the paternity of the provision and tomorrow, approved or not, Italians will have to know who will have to limit their right of thought and their right to speak. Everyone's gonna have to know. In conclusion, I would like to refer to Article 7, cited by Senator Malpezzi; on the contrary, I apologise, "sen" Malpezzi, because I would not like to be offended by the application of the female gender; it is true that, fortunately, the bill has not yet been approved, but in short, sometimes it is better to prevent than cure. It is true that "sen" Malpezzi said that there is nothing in Article 7 and that nothing will be done in schools. So, I'm sorry, why did you put it in? Why did you put the day on the gender? Why did you enter Article 7, if it's no use at all? Instead, just read things and you understand very well that you in schools of every order and grade - Italians must know it; every order and grade means, as the mayor, Senator De Carlo, can confirm, from the school of childhood forward - you want to go and talk about gender. You have to explain that to talk about respect for something, you will also have to explain what that something is. So you're gonna have to explain to the five-year-old what binary, gay, homosexual, and lesbian sex is. I don't have a great deal of expertise in all these differentiations that I think are going to go up to 50. In fact, respect for something you don't know cannot be taught. President, in conclusion, I would remind you that you will also have to assume your responsibility here. I, my party, my colleagues of Brothers of Italy, who are struggling and have voted compactly, all present even before, the issue suspense, we would like to continue to be able to talk about Mom and Dad, we would like to continue to be able to say that the uterus for rent is a shame, we would like to continue to be able to say that the parents are not the parent one and the parent two, but the mother and the dad. We will continue, we are sure that we will succeed, we are sure that this text, which is libertic, shameful and worthy of an authoritarian state, will not be approved by this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u67	Mr President, for a long time we have heard the diverse world of supporters of the Zan bill telling the House, on television, that the text is intended to reaffirm the individual and sexual freedom of everyone and to combat discrimination and violence against homosexuals. On the one hand, there are good and inclusive ones, on the other hand, the bad guys and homophobes. This is a lie, one of the many lies typical of the left. Anyone who knows us, anyone who knows Brothers of Italy, with his President Giorgia Meloni, knows well that there is no one less bigoted than us, no one more inclusive than us and that none of us would ever dream of favoring something that could go against the individual freedom of someone or against homosexuals. On the contrary, I would like to say that we belong to a tradition in which we recognize the value of courage and that, even today, it takes great courage to declare ourselves homosexual. [[Applause]] Moreover, to express our feelings of love towards a person of the same sex; there is therefore all our closeness to these people and everything that can be useful to help them get out of the difficult stages will have our full support. But the Zan bill isn't that, it's not that. What sexual freedom do you want to defend the left? I think of the same left who has the habit of doing morale, behaving like a censor, watching from the hole of the lock what the Italians do, with those who have sex, with those who mate, with those who go to dinner. Let us remember Berlusconi's accusations for elegant dinners: that could not be done, the left had decided that it was immoral. We are talking about combating discrimination and violence against homosexuals. On this too, however, the only ones who have done so seriously are us, the Brothers of Italy, when we have, in times not suspicious, posed the problem of relations with those States that consider homosexuality a criminal offence. I call on colleagues and journalists who are now following these issues to review the proceedings of that debate. Almost all of us had intervened (I remember Senator Balboni and myself); we wondered how we could make a bilateral agreement with Qatar, saying that we had to send our schoolchildren and our college kids to do cultural exchanges in Qatar, where homosexuality is a criminal offence, punished with prison and in theory punishable by the death penalty. It doesn't make sense. We have put this problem firmly, we have been the only ones in Parliament to vote against the bilateral agreement with Qatar. That was months ago, before the subject became fashionable. Then we have phenomena at Fedez and Ferragni, which say that politicians who oppose the Zan bill suck, but post their photos from Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, where homosexuality is a criminal offence, but when it comes to making money, we don't care about homosexual rights. [[Applause]] A country where homosexuality is directly punished with death is Saudi Arabia, where homosexuals are killed. The left has always kept silent about this barbarism, perhaps because the former secretary of the PD is paid by Saudi Arabia to talk about the new Saudi Renaissance and perhaps because the current secretary of PD Letta is paid by the same corporate group that takes care of the image of the Saudi royal house.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u68	Senator, you obviously take responsibility for what you're saying.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u69	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, you cannot interrupt me when I am speaking. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can interrupt you if I think I do; you can object and I can call you back. [[Senator Fazzolari's protests.]] I can interrupt you if I think I'll call you back for language. You can answer me, of course, and of course I take note of that. FAZZOLARI (FdI). In the meantime, I'd like to recover all the minutes you've made me lose. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It has not lost many and, as always, the time spent in interruptions is recovered. Don't worry about it. It's not an innovation. FAZZOLARI (FdI). I trust you won't take my word off when you hear something else you don't like. If you want the sources, the editorial "Tomorni" which does not seem to be particularly close to the Brothers of Italy, is the one that reports this information on the affairs of Letta in a timely manner. "Tomorrow" writes it, I don't say it, and if Letta thinks there's something wrong, she should make a denial that she hasn't done: Letta has been paid 100,000 euros a year for eight sessions at the same corporate group that takes care of the image of the Saudi house. That is why we are not talking about homosexuals sentenced to death in Saudi Arabia. [[Applause]] Instead, we are talking about the Hungarian law banning gender propaganda in schools. Why? Because Orbán doesn't take the cheques off the qatarates and Saudis to Italian and European politicians: that's why. There is a motion by Brothers of Italy to the Senate and the House to ask to condemn countries in which homosexuality is a crime: Brothers of Italy presented it (no other political force presented it), because we are free people who have the strength to say clearly what is happening and to condemn where violence against homosexuals is real and concrete. The other political forces, on the other hand, are dejected from these acts of courage. Why do we know that? The bill Zan decides that the biological sex does not exist, instead there is the perceived identification of itself. It means if I feel like a woman, I'm a woman, and if I go to someone and say I'm a woman, and he insists that I'm a man, I can sue him for discrimination. This is a nonsense, an idiocy, there is little to turn around: it is biological terraplattism and scientific terraplattism. And we who say that this is terraplattism are not homophobic. Those who support these things should justify the idiocy they say. We have some examples of what happens when you decide that sex is self-perception. In Canada, where there is already the Canadian Zan law, a trans activist, born man who now declares himself a woman, but is not operated, Jessica Yaniv, has the habit of going to the women's beauty centers and asking the beauticians to shave his genitals, obviously male, and those who refuse are denounced for discrimination. I wonder how many jokers in Italy, if Zan were to pass the law, will decide for half an hour to declare herself a woman asking some girl beautician to shave his private parts. Then we have the examples of sport, which are the same: the Zan from all over the world have decided that if a woman declares herself to participate in the women's competitions and not with men. Some examples: Hannah Mouncey, transgender, man, was in the male handball national team, now is in the female national team; Australian, 1.88 meters per 100 kg of muscle, usually wins the games. Maxine Blythin, a cricket transgender player: when she competed with men she had 15 points scored at the pitcher (excellent average), now her average is 123 (goodbye dreams of glory to the opposing wrestlers). Lauren Hubbard will be the first transgender to participate in the Olympics in weight lifting and obviously his opponents did not take it very well. It is also a security problem and there are some concrete examples: the Welsh rugby federation admits transsexual players, from next year also the French one. An example: Kelly Morgan. It reads, in the accounts of a game, that he folded his opponent like a deck chair, with multiple fractures. But do we want to take away Kelly Morgan's joy from playing with women if she feels like a woman? But there's better. Fallon Fox is a wrestler or fighter of mixed martial arts (MMA for those who know him), the most violent sport there is; she feels like a woman and fights against women. Some comments: Fox, a transgender male athlete, destroyed Erika Newsome in an MMA fight in Florida, during which he laid a blow to the head with his knee while holding her steady with his hands, leaving her unconscious. To be exact, he smashed her skull. These are the statements of Tamikka Brents, another her opponent who came out of the encounter with seven facial fractures and a concussion: I fought against many women, never felt the strength and ferocity I experienced that night with Fox, and I am a strong woman. I continue to disapprove that Fox is fighting against women; I find it unfair and unloyal. But do you really think these are homophobic words? But do you realize the madness that we came to with the ideological fury that you have? And of course feminists are against the Zan bill, because they would like to defend women, who risk going out with the bones broken by this law, in the ring, when they have to fight in battles like these, and in society, when they will see themselves deprived of their rights. It is right to combat all discrimination and violence against homosexuals; on this you would have the full support of Brothers of Italy. But this is not what the Zan law text does, which is an ideological, liberticidal, dangerous text that discriminates against women. That's why he likes it on the left, and that's why free men and women fight it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u70	Thank you, Senator Fazzolari. She was assigned 12 minutes plus one, and she sold them out earlier. As you can see, everything absolutely according to regular script.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u72	Mr President, if Senator Fazzolari wants to, I can give him an extra minute, but I see him distracted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u73	He ran out of surgery before the time he was assigned.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u74	BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). I am sorry to see many empty benches in the Chamber among the supporters of the Zan bill, and I am sorry that there is no Senator Bressa, who today has tried to do a reconnaissance within the framework of the law, identifying the rules that recall the concept of gender identity both in our legislation and in the European one or in any case in the legislation from the general point of view. Well, there is a judgment of the Constitutional Court that we all know, judgment No 221 of 2015, on which we are shielded to claim that gender identity and therefore the right to self-determination of this kind are a constitutional principle. However, he forgets to say that that is an interpretative judgment of rejection, which does not oblige the legislator to intervene, if anything invites him to intervene. I think this is an important nodal point, because otherwise passes the idea that gender identity, which is a superstructure (i.e. the idea that I have to be recognized for how I perceive myself), is in itself an absolute, valid erga omnes right. I do not think that is the case, and I do not think that the 2015 ruling says that. In the course of the hearings and of the debate held inside and outside the parliamentary classrooms, in newspapers and magazines, many lawyers, who here do not point out for reasons of brevity, have highlighted the fact that the intentions of the Zan bill, while recognizing them as positive, actually confine themselves to a fundamental majestic error, which is to give a criminal robe to something that instead concerns the pedagogical aspect, the dialogic aspect and the everyday life. This pan-penalism, according to which everything is reduced to the criminal sphere, brings with it doubts about the effective scope of some rules. It was decided, in the Chamber of Deputies, to include the cases of discrimination and incitement to discrimination on the grounds of homo-lesbo-transphobia in Articles 604-a et seq. of the Criminal Code, which were introduced by the Mancino law. Well, someone says that the principle of strictness of the rule is thus lost, because the case is absolutely indeterminate. We know that the crime, by definition, is a typical, anti-juridical and guilty fact. This in fact means that the judge should be given an assessment of what is discriminatory and what is not. Let me say that the ubiquity of the term discrimination is also discernment and discernment means choosing, evaluating and expressing an opinion. In the very concept of discrimination there is a reference to the opinion and assessment that everyone can have in dealing with a particular aspect and problem. This morning Senator Caliendo was absolutely clear about the Assembly, saying that, on an important issue like this, a part of the deployment, which advocates the application of the Zan bill as it is, makes a political and strategic mistake. It cannot be accepted that a subject of this magnitude is in fact reduced to a muscular test. This is not political and it is not the service that Parliament has to do with alleged rights, which you believe have been or are being violated these days. Let me make one point: Senator Malpezzi spoke this morning of Rule 4, saying that this is the consequence of an amendment to the House of Deputies. This is not the case, or rather it is a partial statement, partly true and partly false, because that statement is the result of a compromise reached between the various political forces, in the context of the debate in the House of Deputies. Beyond this, it is clear that the reference to freedom of expression of thought, as referred to in Article 21 of the Constitution, is not only plionistic, because the constitutional principle exists, however, beyond what the norm writes, but is also counterproductive, because the final part of Article 4 leads to the consideration and the return to the criminal beehive of certain behaviors that may not have any criminal relevance. We come to the basic concept that, in my opinion, inspires a little 'the draft law to our examination, that is, Article 1, Irt of complicated definitions, like that on gender identity, which belongs to a concept that is the ideal and idealist superstructure of something that escapes the perception of individuals. There is a problem: the concept of man, a word ending with a vowel, belongs to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; when we refer to it, we speak of a complexity proper to the illuminist concept, which contains in itself the different and a multiplicity of aspects, not the separateness, nor what you want to defend and in fact discriminate. The declaration of the universality of men and their equality contains in itself all those definitions that you think instead of wanting to insert, hypostatizing them within a norm whose scope is contrary to its premises. Someone calls it the aesthetics of the exception, according to which one is something because one belongs to a certain community or to a certain type and therefore, gay, trans, or belonging to the LGBT world, one belongs to something that is already in itself a right; one has a subversion in the concept of what was to be a minority and ends up being warned or to be recognized as a qualifying aspect, of such a scope and connotation that the normal exits from the sphere of what is interesting and must be protected. I would ask the House to reflect on this aspect, because I believe that in the concept of man and in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights everything is there: the concept of man is universal, of illuminist derivation in his formation; to think of separating, as is being done, by regimenting classifications according to which additional and particular rights are born, creates an orientation which in itself is discriminatory, and this is called heterogenesis of the ends. I do not think that everything must be thrown to the ground: certainly the debate in Parliament has produced quality interventions; like those I have heard today, however, I have also heard absolutely ideological positions and a fundamental partisanry that is not up to date. It is not what society requires of us and it is probably not what can best protect that world of which someone thinks he has absolute and exclusive representation. A great Italian said that reason serves to illuminate nature, not to set it on fire. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u76	Mr President, I too, like Senator Dal Mas, will begin with an annoyance and a displeasure, which is to see the emptiness, in fact, starting with those of those who say they are most concerned about it and then come to this House to make a lot of demonstrations of weight, as they would say. In the reality of the matter, we have heard little of it in the speeches. On the other hand, we have seen more of an attitude that I do not like and which I would call fateful, provocative, mignified, rigid, not at all aimed at seeking a position of agreement, but in all centered on imposing one's own vision. Imposing a vision, when it comes to ethics, morality, custom and rights, is the farther away there should be than the things you want to do, because it is like saying that those who want to be tolerant admit anything that corresponds to their own thought, but, when they do not correspond to their own thought, they exclude any possibility of agreement. This is not tolerance, but arrogance, which is another thing. Mr President, what Senator Pharaoh said in his speech this morning did to me a little bit. I'm referring to what you reported about Senator Cirinna's mischief, who then pointed Senator Pharaoh to the public. This certainly does not denote a tolerant attitude and it is, on the contrary, the attitude - which I am afraid belongs, unfortunately, to a large part of the supporters of the bill - of those who only admit their own opinion and preach tolerance, but are not willing to accept that of others. This is not a good assumption to be able to convince us to support these arguments. The indifference with which even now Senator Cirinna does not listen to what I am saying proves it. It's annoying, I know. All right, we'll get over it. Mr President, we can guarantee the Italians one thing: tolerance is the fundamental principle to which everything we vote in this House must always be marked. When we are in the government, we are tolerant and respectful, we are liberal and we welcome the ideas of others. We know that to a part of the left these concepts are foreign: we do not make a reason for it, but we continue in our battle of freedom; otherwise, we mix the elements and we get confused also on the principle that should inspire the bill (use the conditional, because so it seems not to be). Who doesn't agree on making laws that they have to comply with? On the other hand, we are in a country in which law is not founded in the last ten years, but it has centuries of history and stories of tolerance behind it. So, it's a little hard to see this exacerbation of expressions as if we were in a tribal country, where you're starting to put a few little pieces of law to impose the respect of other people. It's not like that. The other day I found myself in a debate in which the other party argued that it is necessary to approve the Zan bill as it is, word for word, to prevent there being still homosexuals, transsexuals or others beaten on the streets. What are we saying? No one on the streets must be beaten. It's not that if you're in a category, if you're an Interlist or a Milanist, you're entitled not to be beaten, and if you're a Juventus, you have to be. It's not that if you're white, you can be beat-free, and if you're black, you have to be beaten. What are we saying? This type of category cannot exist in a civilized country. Everyone has the right to be free and protected. [[Applause]] The paradox we're coming up with is putting categories that aren't privileged, but it's like they're almost protected. It seems that there are categories that are less entitled to protection than discrimination. No, discrimination must not exist against anyone, obviously speaking in positive terms. We have said it and we are saying it in every way: we find an intense one. We were opposed to one argument: since the draft law has remained in the Commission for nine months, there is obviously no willingness to reach an agreement. Mr President, in the Senate committees, as in the House's committees, there are draft laws on any subject, from handicap to economics, from taxes to social rights, which since the beginning of the legislature have been waiting to be sent to the classrooms and debated. I'm thinking about the caregivers for an example. The bill presented by the undersigned was n. 7 of the legislature and mutual from that made by Senator Bignami in the previous one: it was not even matched, just to have an idea. We do not argue in a biased way, but we say in a very correct way that, if there is a political will, things are done. One adage says that politics is the art of making round what is square: everything can be done, just want it. It is clear that, if in the past nine months no agreement has been found, it is because there was no will to find it, on the one hand and on the other. Maybe. We certainly declare - and we are saying this in every way - that we are willing to seek an understanding on the substance of the facts. Can it be done in the next two weeks? We saw this morning reject the suspensive issue in this respect, but it can still be done, reaching a joint drafting of amendments. Of course I do. I believe that the message coming from this morning's vote (136 versus 135) is clear that, even if the law were to pass by a vote, that one vote of rejection means that something divisive is being carried out, that it did not have the ability and was not marked to put together and to gather. At this point, it is clear that the aim is only to put a political, ideological flag, which has nothing to do with merit. On this I must recognize a great media capacity of some part of the left in selling the titles. I see Senator Cangini reminding me of the newspapers, as if to indicate who sells the headlines in the newspapers, without looking at what is written in the article itself. Some people are able to do it and some newspapers even put photographs and everything else underneath, in the background. Mr President, we need to talk about merit instead. President Ostellari gave an exceptional demonstration of good will and pragmatism. Here, let's start with those elements. I quote only one, Article 4, which should be a prerequisite for pluralism and says: "Pluralism of ideas and freedom of choice" and continues: For the purposes of this law, the free expression of convictions or opinions as well as legitimate conduct attributable to the pluralism of ideas or the freedom of choice, provided that it is not suitable to determine the real danger of discriminatory or violent acts being carried out, shall be without prejudice to this law. Mr President, imagine now that a citizen on the outside, listening to my speech, which I think is marked by a significant calmness, then goes to perform extreme gestures of intolerance; quietly, following this path, a magistrate could call me to respond, believing that he has instigated that person to commit an act of violence, even though he is totally unrelated to the content and scope of my statements. By this I mean that by this measure you are introducing rules not to protect people, but to limit the freedom of people. At the moment when the choice is put in the hands of a magistrate whether such a statement can be the harbinger of acts of hatred or of incitement to hatred, we retrace paths that we have already seen distorted, then, within the courts, for which in the end a person, who has nothing to do with an act of violence, for political matters is called to respond in court. This is not freedom, it is not protecting people; it has nothing to do with the protection and respect that must be given to those who have their own political idea or lifestyle, as well as their own conduct of love, heterosexual or homosexual. That means compressing rights. We are saying in every way, Mr President, that there is still time and space to reach an understanding; otherwise it is clear that the Democratic Party and certain extreme left wingers are simply interested in planting a flag, then opening significant gaps in the protection of the freedom of people, of all people, Mr President, without any distinction of gender and sex. Because freedom either belongs to everyone or it is a denial that goes to suffer any of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u77	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u78	Mr President, it is now mid-July and it has been many months since we heard the statements in this House, in the social media and in the newspapers of those who were preparing to support the new old government, saying that they would do so in order to save the nation. Already this would have imposed at once a reflection, on saving it from whom: from who had brought it to that point and that is from the same ones who proposed, then, to save it; this, however, is another theme. [[Applause]] I say this, because today those same people who proposed to save the nation, rather than dealing with a plurality of people without rights, such as economic ones (because many have yet to come), are debating an issue that has become important because someone has noticed how liberticidal it is, while outside there are people who have not yet received refunds for the very serious situation that he suffered during the lockdown. [[Applause]] This must be clear, otherwise all the debate we are having, regardless of their respective positions, is worth little and squeals with reality, with what is happening outside this Parliament. I repeat: outside there are people who have not yet seen anything on their bank account nor has it been, in any way, supported by a government that was supposed to save the nation. In fact, while outside, in difficult conditions, this nation has tried to recover, inside we are concerned to limit the freedom of the only ones who disagree also on your attitude towards the economy and the productive part of this country. So, there is a double serious situation generated by all of this. Why are you doing this? You just do it to feel useful, to plant a flag, to make someone believe they are still representative of something. Believe, in your absolute self-referentiality, to represent someone. In fact, you represent, badly, a minority of people who, on the other hand, happen to need more interventions on the economic side at the moment, because on the legal part you already feel protected by existing laws, by the penal code, by an attitude of society, which is not as discriminatory as you would like to make believe. Otherwise, the Centre's data on discrimination would say something else. We would have reports of all kinds, but in reality these are not there or there are very few, as proof also of the perception of the fear of certain minorities, which I find difficult to define minorities. But why, in fact, do we have to ghettoize people? Why do we have to divide people between those who have sexual orientation like mine and those who have different sexual orientation? We on the right have always been diversists when you wanted to flatten everything and approve the world as in the former Soviet Union. But we're not rights diversists. For us all have the same rights and we do not need to entrench them within a reconstruction of the society made by you for your use and consumption. We believe that the citizen is not only LGBT or not LGBT, but is a citizen in the fullness of his rights, which is also the right to be able to say his opinion when you do not share what you would like to say. And we want citizens to have the opportunity to emancipate themselves also from the point of view of work and not to remain your slaves, with the income of citizenship that you have set up to have people always at your disposal. [[Applause]] That's what we'd like. We would like to extend the rights, not limit them. But you, with this law, severely limit them. In fact, even worse: limit the rights of those who do not think like you, believing that you have to discriminate, in some way, the thought different from yours. Once again, discriminate against the different; once again, lock it in a ghetto; once again, take off his license. Who knows, then, why you. Who knows, then, because you can hand over your licenses to someone. From the top of what? What is the reason for your ability to say what is right and what is wrong? What's it coming from? From the people's consent? I mean, get over it, 'cause I don't think so. By the fact that you have a cultural superiority? Even this conviction will have to fall, because I, when I see professors inciting hatred, overturning the books of the Meloni in a bookstore, I think we can not talk about cultural superiority but of absolute imbecility. [[Applause]] If that's what moves you, then forget to be superior. The truth is that you are losing the dominion of this society and it is happening because you are losing consent, because you are not even more representative of the worlds that so far have allowed you to sit in here and I do not even speak of the workers anymore, because you have forgotten them for years, those stink, just as you have forgotten the peasants, who work and get their hands dirty. They are all so different from your chic radical living rooms that you cannot understand them, so much so that you win in the historic centers and lose in all the suburbs because you no longer represent the vision of what your electoral basin was. What are you doing then? Try to erase those who represent your alternative; do so by trying to silence them, telling them that they cannot speak because, not only do they have a different idea from yours, but they have an idea that by your judgment - and therefore divine - they cannot even afford to be represented. These are you, this is the purpose of this law: to shut our mouths simply because you know that, if we speak or continue to do so, your very existence fails. As an old adage said, if there weren't the ugly ones, you wouldn't see the beautiful ones. Here, you try to erase the beautiful to look beautiful to you; in reality you remain ugly, like the politics you have done in recent years, like the uglyness of the institutions you have tried to do in these years. We're here, though. In my brief parliamentary experience, I have already voted once in the House on the Zan draft law and I am ready to do it again, if anything we will get to vote on it in the Chamber. I have some doubts that you can do this, however, given yesterday's numbers and today's numbers too, and do you know why? Because after all, it's your own voters who tell you that you're dealing with something that doesn't make sense. Many of you, therefore, do not have a crisis of conscience; they simply lit up your conscience, realizing that those outside, the people who have always trusted you do not want them to take care of this thing; they want you to deal with economics, extend your rights to everyone and not ghettoize them in a corner, making them feel still different. I'm annoying locals just for gays or lesbians. I believe that the locals must always be for everyone: there is no apartheid against someone; everyone must be free to go to the local they want. The ghetto is part of another culture, another system of seeing society. We are different, we will continue to say so as long as we have a voice, as long as the instruments of parliamentary debate allow us to do so, and until we can go to the squares as well to really explain what the Zan bill is, beyond your storytelling, your partisan narration, that every time you have a public debate then it melts like snow in the sun. We will continue to go to the streets to say this and it will not be a bill - not even the one in question - to prevent us from doing so and it will certainly not be you, who now represent little more than a minority, to tell us what we have to do and what the Italians will have to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u79	She's enlisted to speak Senator Drago. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u80	Dear President, Madam Undersecretary, my fellow Senators and Senators, before I make my speech, I would like to ask some questions which I have asked myself these days and which I would like to share with you. Are we sure that this bill is necessary and sufficient to ensure the fight against hatred and acceptance of those categories that are intended to be protected? The term "categories" is not a random choice, of course, because we are actually creating this. Can a regulatory imposition lead to cultural and behavioural change? Article 4 does not mention, for example, either dignity or people; in fact, in this way we intend to address the issue as a thought trapped by criminals. But can such a thought lead to good? Then I came to mind some experiences of the past related in particular to the study of the text of an author, Gary Chapman, who is a counselor and a writer who makes an analysis of relationships, and especially those within the couple, friendly, parental and also between parents and children. The analysis that he proposes basically starts from a premise: do we all want to love the person we have chosen and who is close to us, but are we sure that we love her to the extent that she wants to be loved? Where am I going with this? I mean: are we sure that this regulation intervenes in support and help of those who perhaps go through the stages of identity crisis or of those who think they have found it? I want to get to this: it is precisely the wrong approach. Also in Article 7, in the proposal on the day dedicated to homolesbobitransphobia, what is the proposal? It is recognized on May 17 as National Day against Homophobia, Lesbophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia, in order to promote the culture of respect and inclusion as well as to counter prejudice, discrimination, violence and so on (for us it is all known). We come to paragraph 3 of the same article: On the occasion of the National Day against homophobia, lesbophobia, biphobia and transphobia are organized ceremonies, meetings - attention at this point - and any other useful initiative for the realization of the purposes referred to in paragraph 1. In accordance with the three-year plan - thus the PTOF - of the training offer and the educational pact of co-responsibility, as well as the other public administrations provide for the activities referred to in the previous period compatible with the resources available under current legislation and, in any case, without new or increased burdens for public finance. That is one of the concerns. Mr Malpezzi spoke on this point a few minutes ago, referring to the PTOF and three-year planning, but also to the co-responsibility contract between the parties, so when the children were enrolled in school between the family and the school. As such, it is a matter of planning in principle. We know very well that then, over three years, ad hoc projects are proposed, also based on the training requirement determined precisely by the teaching freedom of the teacher himself. From this point of view, I believe that there is, for example, a problem which is not indifferent to the issue of release. So what would we do? We would give absolutely freedom to the school, clearly after signing and signing by the parents, to be able to carry out a training activity in a certain direction. However, in order to know specifically and specifically the projects proposed annually, it is appropriate that families sign a release order each time, because signing first is absolutely dangerous. There has been talk of disabled people. Well, the concept of disability was inserted within the text - it is clear - quickly; probably the reading that is given was that of an insertion dictated, on the one hand, by the desire to leverage emotionalism; on the other, to allow to gather votes and allow the passage of the text to the House. I say this because the reference to disability is only in Article 3. For the rest, it is absent, for example, in Articles 1, 7, 9, 10; there are no specific references, even when there is even talk of centres in Article 9. Again on the subject of disability I would like to highlight another aspect. Vincenzo Zoccano was Undersecretary of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers with delegation to the family and disability. We are talking about a person with a disability, not a disabled person: with whom or what should he be otherwise able to do? We are all disabled but, again, after years, we use this nomenclature incorrectly, including it in a draft law. On June 4, 2021, on "Il Giornale" (Il Giornale) the journalist Felice Manti interviewed the former Zoccano Undersecretary of the Government Count 1, who, to the question "Isn't he happy that the Zan ddl takes care of you?," he replied: "Nobody cares about us! I was the first blind person in the government, I asked the INPS how many people with disabilities are. That's 7.5 million, before there was an estimate! There is no trace of our problems in the recovery, the law 112 on after us is underfunded, there are no implementing decrees of the law on caregivers - family members forced to take care of the relative - to allocate the funds and regulate the implementing regulation, even on the social security front, there are seven different proposals to the Senate on the subject, other than ddl Zan. The invalidity pension is 285 euros, thanks to a ruling of the Supreme Court for certain categories has risen to 600 euros. And no one talks about it. So, we also talked about the dimension of sexuality for people with disabilities. What do I want to highlight? In these months we have witnessed - perhaps this is also normal - a dissemination operation aimed at the knowledge of the left; I repeat, the left one of which I used to be part and which, precisely from the experience that I have lived also in reference to this bill, has aroused in me the need not to pass through the next door but to make the jump, as I often say, of the barricade. I want to point out that we are also seeing government interference on the subject of the Zan bill. Months ago a refresher course was held for the Forces of Order, called Cnap24, during which the issues of general interest for the year 2021 were addressed. The second day was entitled "When hatred becomes a crime" with regard to discrimination, for example by bringing situations related to sexual orientation. It is often referred - within the training course - to a vacacatio legis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Drago (FdI). I conclude by taking another example of government interference that we also witnessed yesterday, when, beyond the person I deeply esteem, during the work of the Assembly, also the Undersecretary to education has published on Facebook one of her posts referring to Article 7 and indicating a perspective that we would like to hope for with respect to Article 7, but not the content of the same. So, from this point of view, if, on the one hand, through film productions, talk-shows and even children's cartoons, we have tried to inform the population in a single way, on the other we are beginning to witness - and I think it is now really too much - even governmental interference on the subject. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u82	Mr President, Government, fellow senators, I confess that for the first time in three years of parliamentary term, my first three years of parliamentary term, I speak in this House shaken by a fear and who knows me how little he is afraid of defending or expressing my positions. The fear is to be misunderstood or worse to be proscribed by the civil assembly and considered a monstrous person. It confirms and comforts me that these arguments similar to those I will go to illustrate have been expressed in these days by illustrious constitutionalists, journalists, intellectuals and political personalities all left and, therefore, perhaps the mark of infamy will fall with weakness on me and on them. The problem is there and I believe that the fact of warning it is to testify to the unpleasant climate that has been created around the norm in our examination. A climate, in a certain sense, from an ethical state, a climate unfortunately consistent with the spirit of the times that we are given to live. Consistent with the spread of a politically correct dogma and with a systematic process of uprooting and systematic loss of identity of people and societies. Consistent with an increasingly strong and - I dare say - violent tendency not only to rewrite, but even to erase history on ethical grounds. Consistent - as noted recently by the well-known constitutionalist Michele Ainis on the Republic of Moldova, precisely speaking of the Zan bill - with the tendency to proliferate rights that no longer have anything to do with society or citizens understood as a whole, but that address individual social groups and individual groups of citizens - writes Ainis in a critical key - whose desires are consequently transformed into legal norms. Colleagues, I understand that all this comes from a positive push to do good, to do justice. All this, however, does not really have anything, but nothing at all, liberal. I believe and have always believed that the rights of minorities - sexual or non-sexual - should always be safeguarded and, in any case, assimilated to the rights of the majority, but not intellectually, but because this is what the Constitution prescribes. Article 3 of the Constitution states that "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions." This is an essential article that already says everything we are talking about. No less important than Article 3 of the Constitution, however, is Article 21, which prescribes that everyone has the freedom to express their views. It is an article that is poorly reconciled, for example, with the desire to impose a certain view of the world, whether right or wrong, or of human nature on the young people of schools. This is not how prejudices are healed and how justice is rendered to those who did not have justice and recognized it. I believe that the right to freely express one's opinions must always be safeguarded, especially when one does not share the opinions in question and especially when one considers them monstrous. I would like and want each of us to be free to say that Hitler or Stalin were the benefactors of humanity, rather than to say that in nature there is no homosexuality or, on the contrary, that in nature there is no sexual gender and that everything is due to social conditioning. Colleagues, nonsense, prejudices, nonsense and intellectual monstrosities comment on their own and marginalize themselves. Bans do not strengthen, but weaken the right positions. [[Applause]] To add categories to categories and prohibitions to prohibitions, they are wronged more than justice because each category we add, for example, to the number of categories covered by the so-called Mancino law excludes others. I know I say something that cannot be tolerated in the storm of the climate that has been created, but I consider the Mancino law to be wrong and illiberal and I believe that every social group or category or sexual taste is included from time to time in that law creates a void compared to other social groups and other categories and de facto harms the rights of other social groups and other categories. I make a paradoxical example, but to a certain extent: all of us have a clear picture of how much and what suffering an overweight child has to endure in being systematically delighted by his schoolmates. So what do we do? We also put fat people among the categories that the Mancino law protects [[Applause]] ? Really, why not? Then the wearers of glasses, the hunters, the vegans, there is no limit to the human categories and to the will of certain people to cancel and identify themselves in a single particular aspect of their lives. But that is not what makes us a society, it is not what makes us citizens of a state. The more we add, the more we exclude; the more we protect, the more we damage [[Applause]] That should be the concept that we should all be clear about. Colleagues, we are exaggerating, you are exaggerating, perhaps on both sides, but you are exaggerating on this issue and on the Zan bill. I have heard Mrs Malpezzi, chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, in this House, whom I appreciate, respect and to whom I share a feeling of sincere sympathy, say that the Zan bill is urgent and must be approved absolutely by a drumbeat as it is. Mr Malpezzi's motivation is that this text saves lives. It is exaggerated, it is really exaggerated, and if it were true it would mean that the central-left governments governed by organic majorities of central-left have become responsible for deaths. That if it were true, but it is not a serious and sensible way of thinking; it is a way of reasoning that leads nowhere. It is not sensible to believe that, in a context of broad understanding, a law that is dear to one political party must also be adopted on the other political side, knowing that this is a controversial and questionable law. It would be as if the undersigned and what is left of my party wanted at all costs to pass a rule for the separation of careers between judicial judges and investigators. It is a principle which I share and which I consider essential in terms of civilization of law; however, if we had the claim to pass such a rule, in a framework of broad understanding due to a national emergency, with the vote of the Movimento 5 Stars and of a large part of the PD, making it an ethical issue, we would be idiots or demagogues. I do not believe that Enrico Letta is an idiot, but a demagogue; I believe that on this matter the Democratic Party, or rather its secretary, wanted to characterize its secretariat by imposing a demagogic flag, regardless of the end that will make the bill in question. Demagogy is an enemy of politics, which is based on compromise, which is not a bad word. It is a word that many, too many, probably despised, but it is the essence of politics: the Unity of Italy is born of a compromise, the Republican Constitution is born of a compromise; every rule we respect and before which we bow, approved by this Parliament in this and in the previous historical phases, was born of a compromise. The compromise is denied by the demagogues, despots and moralists, personal and social categories that use to brandish the clava of ethics to give it to those who think differently, thus making the opponent an enemy, not of their own political part, but of civilization [[Applause]] This, colleagues in the Democratic Party, is the road you have taken and clearly leads to a dead end. So, if you don't do it to restore dignity to politics, if you don't do it to make your political side more accessible, if you don't do it to defend the rights you say you want to defend, do it for yourself. There's only one thing to do to save all this: graft the reverse [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u83	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, for several months now, the subject of the Zan draft law has held a stand in the debates on television, in the squares and in our e-mail boxes. We have been constantly bombarded by propaganda that highlights a single version of the facts and a single vision. The newspapers and televisions have alternated in painting all those who are not in favour of this bill as retrogrades, homophobes, racists (and those who have more of them), as if suddenly civil rights were not already part of our society. It is necessary to put order before such demagogy, because today we are debating a totally ideological text, wanted by those who think that everything that is minority should prevail, to the detriment of the silent majority. Let us begin by saying that our system punishes crimes against life (Article 575 of the Criminal Code) and against the safety of the person (Article 581 of the Criminal Code), honour in the event of defamation, against personal freedom, in the event of sexual violence, threat or persecutory acts. That's why I'm talking about the uninformed electorate. In fact, the House felt that the principles of our Constitution were no longer going well and it wanted to adopt a law that introduced the protection of an ideological concept, that of gender, distinct and superimposed on that of biological sex. It is a bill that would like to introduce criminal sanctions and even ancillary penalties, i.e. reeducational, to be served in institutions and associations that deal with the issues related to the bill for anyone who dares or seems to say that the nature is that of male and female. A bill introducing a National Day against Homophobia, Lesbophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia, on which schools provide activities, also of promotion and education. You have allocated EUR 4 million to LGBT associations. It would suffice to inform the Italians correctly of these intentions in order to raise an unprecedented ideological confrontation and perhaps that is what you are aiming at. Attention, because you are creating an atmosphere of ideological confrontation, which has a beginning but has no end, and for this you are responsible. If I wanted to be provocative or ironic, I would like to know what you would think if you were proposed to set up a day against heterophobia or straight pride. I wonder where we're gonna end up. Let us, please, evaluate the serious and practical issues of interest to Italians and ask you: will the Zan bill prevent or limit harassment, insults or violence? Not necessarily, because our penal code already punishes insults, harassment or violence, without distinctions of sex, race, language, religion or political opinion. I want to remind you that the League has already proposed to tighten the penalties that are already there, but you said no: you must also tell the Italians. Will your bill serve to give fundamental rights to homosexuals, transsexuals, etc.? No, because today civil unions are already recognized by the Cirinna law, without distinction and with the same rights as marriage. We say to the Italians, including the various influencers who love to create ideological clashes, what are the consequences of this bill as written and proposed: to prevent the freedom of speech, because every different position could be considered a probable incitement to discrimination; to delete the terms "father" and "mother", replacing them with "parent" and "parent 2"; to impose gender ideology in schools. It will be mandatory - I repeat: mandatory - for all children to learn that there are not only males and females, but dozens of other possibilities, that marrying a man or a woman is perfectly the same and that children are also born from two fathers or two mothers. He's been asking for years to teach emotional intelligence in schools and we respond by setting up a hallucinating obligation like this. It is clear that this bill is the preview of your true intention: to get to promote the uterus for rent. [[Applause]] Otherwise, you would have accepted the proposed mediation, which was intended to really punish discrimination, by amending, as proposed, Articles 1, 4 and 7. Your true intentions are different. Today there are many examples of famous homosexual couples who have children through the womb for rent; once the law is passed, it will be easy to accuse of discrimination those who are opposed to such practice, which in fact encourages the commodification of mothers who carry on the pregnancy for use and consumption of the couple of shifts. For many years of my life, I thought I wouldn't have children. But when this luck happens, you realize that you are not satisfying your need or your selfishness; realize that it is a gift of nature. And I never thought of satisfying my maternity need, I never thought of going to a clinic in America, getting a catalog, and choosing whether my son's father should be tall, low, blond or dark, or what his IQ should be. I never thought of contacting a woman, perhaps casually at a time of economic difficulty, and letting her rent her uterus to implant my egg, my son. Everyone can live their sexuality and feelings as they best believe; but, when we talk about actions that fall on the lives of others, choices that inevitably fall on the future of newborns and children who cannot oppose, it is not acceptable. We have a moral obligation to protect them also for the future. It is immoral to take advantage of a mother's difficulties in renting her uterus to produce another's child; it would not be acceptable even in the animal kingdom. And when that child asks about his mom, what will he be told? You're a special kid. You don't have a mom, you have two dads. Or you have two moms. [[Applause]] In fact, excuse me, you have to answer, to be consistent: you have a parent 1 and a parent 2. It is a good thing that nature regulates itself and adolescence presents the account of these aberrations, which will be very salty for both the ill-begotten children and the couple who wanted them. The state cannot take responsibility for this. I want a world where children can still say mom and dad, without raising a fuss, and I want to continue to say that nature has arranged for the human species a father and a mother and that only this biological possibility exists. The rest is selfish manipulation. I don't want anyone to go to school and tell my son he's not a boy, but he'll decide his sex later. No one must afford to invade the educational sphere of my son, who is disciplined by his father and his mother. Stay away from the children. I would like to remind you that Mr Zan said a few days ago that there are children and girls who perceive sex other than their biological sex and that we must help these children on a transition path. That's the real intention. I would help him to resolve such conflicts within himself, since he has long been an adult. Nature takes its course also for these doubts, which exist and which are being resolved in the evolutionary process; no one needs help to do what nature has already arranged. The only help we can give is to study forms of psychological and cultural support for parents who still do not respect the sexual identities of their children, because respect for sexual identity is a duty and is a path that may be addressed to parents and not to children, to whom nature already thinks with its perfection. A son is born from the love of a man and a woman who decide to give life: I want to continue to say all this, without being accused of homophobia. It is necessary and necessary to respect ethical limits, which cannot be overcome by personal selfishness and narcissism, and all this has nothing to do with the proper respect for homosexuality and all forms of legitimate sexual identity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u85	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u86	Mr President, I would like to thank the fellow Member who has come up here and advised me not to be angry, because I will follow his advice, which I greatly appreciated. I have to say, however, that I was off on the wrong foot, because when we talk about people, their suffering and the intimate identity of everyone, it makes me angry to see how the issue is being exploited in many ways. I think we should all lower our tones, lower our heads and talk about what is true and concrete. This is not about imposing on others our vision of the world, but about accepting the world for what it is. It is not a question of whether judges' careers should be divided: this is a political vision. In this case we are trying to approve a legislative act that, in its definition, is dissuasive against hate actions against people who, not by choice but by nature, have a different perception of their sexuality. We are trying, with a bill, to make an act of culture, to make everyone understand that we are not all binaries and that there are people who, not by choice but by birth, for their own feeling, take a path of transition. This transition path, of course, will lead to a different definition and identity than birth sex, that is, biological sex. We therefore come to Article 1, in which we find the definition of terms, which we all think we know, such as sex, sexual orientation, gender and gender identity. It seems to me that in this House, but also in the debate outside, many are frightened by the expression gender identity, as if it were a neologism. But it is not a neologism, so much so that in Europe there are already 11 countries that provide protection for gender identity (there are 20, if we consider the Council of Europe). We have been talking about this in Europe since 2000 and in 2010 the Committee of Ministers made a recommendation for legislative measures to combat hate crimes - this is our case - for sexual orientation and gender identity. Then there is the Istanbul Convention, which uses this term and which we ratified in 2013. Therefore, this definition is so frightening because it states that "gender identity" means self-identification perceived and manifested in relation to gender, even if not corresponding to sex, regardless of having concluded a transition path. I realize that many people talk without knowing the facts. What is behind this statement, that is, the fact that we have not completed the transition path? There is a world of people on the margins, who are not allowed to work and cultural activity or to participate in social life, because our law provides that only at the end of the transition the gender identity is recognized, putting these people in a position to not be able to enter the world of work. This does not solve the issue, but it is a first step, because the recognizability of one's gender identity even in an unfinished transitional sentence is a fundamental fact. We are doing a cultural act, there are people forced to live in lawlessness, prostitution, like the invisible present in our territory because of some decrees of 2018, unable to have a house for rent, to access a job. There are Italians who are taking a transition route and are excluded from the world. This is a fact and it is on the skin of people, on the skin of people, on their suffering. It is useless, then, to say that they will be killed, that they will commit suicide, unfortunately it is a fact, the chronicle is full of these episodes and we of this suffering must take responsibility. To worry so much there is also article 4, because it contains this specification that was introduced to the House to reassure those who thought that the opinion would be persecuted, that there would no longer be the opportunity to express their opinion: it is reiterated that Article 21 of the Constitution is absolutely and always protected, and we would miss more! What can't be done is to incite hatred and talk about a crime of real danger. Not even this is a new expression, because it is part of our legal system, in which the crimes are divided in abstract danger, in concrete danger and in damage and this applies in all areas, also for the environmental damage there is the concrete danger and they are already present in our system, they are known. Well, if the danger is deemed abstract, the crime does not exist, so it is clear that it is the judge who will have to assess, because there is the division of powers, the law cannot impose on the judge as it will have to assess - alive god - but if the judge considers that there is no real danger, but that the danger of incitement to hatred is only abstract, the crime does not exist and an opinion can never be an incitement to hatred, if anything it wants to be. As for Article 7, there is no obligation for operational proposals in schools, but there is only one possibility and this is the even more important action of the law, because in addition to being punitive a law is dissuasive, but above all it is a cultural act, because we will be able to defeat isolation, frustration and hatred only with knowledge and knowledge is pursued through the school, through cultural operations involving people, children and make them aware of the reality, because this is not a cultural invention, it is not an overlap that might not please us, but what is under the sun is, what is under the sky is and it is not up to us to determine whether we like it or not, it is up to us to establish that it is and I believe that this law does only do this, without harming anyone: it recognizes the right of others. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u87	I suspend the session, which will resume at 16.30 with the vote for the election of two members of the board of directors of RAI Radiotelevisione italiana SpA. (The sitting was suspended at 14.05 p.m. and resumed at 16.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u88	The next item is: Vote for the election of two members of the Board of Directors of RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana SpA. For this vote each senator will receive a card on which he will indicate, pursuant to article 49, paragraph 6, letter a), of the legislative decree 31 July 2005, n. 177, a single name among those who have submitted their candidacy in the framework of the selection procedure provided for by paragraph 6-a of the same legislative decree, whose curriculum is published on the senate's website. I note that, having certain candidates the same surname, if you intend to vote for one of them you will have to indicate on the card, for the attribution of the vote, both the surname and the name of the person concerned. In the absence of a name, the vote shall be deemed void. The two candidates who will obtain the highest number of votes will be declared elected. After the call, the votes will remain open until 7.30 p.m., while the House will continue to discuss the next item on the agenda. I declare the vote open and invite the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal in alphabetical order. (Senator Secretary BINETTI and then Senator Secretary PISANI Giuseppe make the appeal). (In the course of the voting operations the Presidency takes over - at 5.32 p.m. -). I declare closed the vote of the senators present at this time in this House. I warn the Senators who have not yet voted that they will be able to do so until 7.30 p.m. (The ballot boxes remain open.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u89	Let us resume the general discussion on draft law no. 2005. She's enlisted to speak Senator Petrenga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my freedom ends where your freedom begins. These are the words of Martin Luther King, a man who sacrificed his life to fight discrimination, becoming a symbol of the fight against racism and all forms of discrimination. Brothers of Italy has never questioned the freedom of everyone to live their sexuality as best he believes: this is certainly not the point of the discussion. What we consider unacceptable is when we try, through the state, to impose certain models on society, of which we frankly do not feel the need. Our opposition stems from the fact that this regulatory system is legally wrong, in some areas also unconstitutional and based on distorted principles for the protection of freedoms and wrong remedies for the fight against discrimination. There are some episodes, certainly to be condemned - but they are not prevalent: there are much more violence against women or children, just to make a comparison - which are regularly pursued, even harshly, in the current regulatory framework. In fact, the current rules are perfectly capable of already hitting, with greater force, possible episodes of violence of this type, for example by inserting the aggravating factors for futile reasons, without having to invent a new case. In our opinion the Zan bill is harmful, because ideologically oriented to impose a view on reality, deleting different positions. The total legal uncertainty of the so-called homophobia crime makes the application of the law extremely uncertain and entrusted to the interpretation of the judge, thus exposing legitimate affirmation of freedom of opinion to the risk of being accused of homophobia. A further controversial point, on which we place our firm opposition, is the propaganda and reeducational system of many parts of the text, which does not only ask for heavier penalties for concrete acts of violence, but builds a whole series of propaganda activities gender, such as National Day of May 17, courses in schools also to children of ten or twelve years and the re-education of those who are condemned. Just read this text once, to understand the controversial nature of the underlying principle. Perplexity also arises for the part in which it is said to be "for the purposes of this law," because this constitutes an objective limitation to the following sentences, which are instead indispensable constitutional rights. If the views expressed are not for the purposes of the law in question, does this freedom lapse? But who decides in this correspondence, since the law is built on legally slippery concepts such as homophobia, whose definition, among other things, our order has not yet conceived or, as reported in article 2, on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, concepts also still not legally defined and on which there is still no convergence even within the same LGBT community. Society will gradually adapt, with the burdensome consequence that there will no longer be members of a nation who are equal before national law and recognize themselves in a common history, and then recognize elsewhere a common humanity that is the fertile root of its differences. We will witness a pulverization of society in a myriad of subsets that will not meet and will not be found, that selfishly and narcissistically will look only at themselves and at their own self-affirmation, claiming unilateral recognitions and destroying the plot of the social bond that history had patiently dealt with weaving. Thus, everyone paints on his hands the name of a partisan justice that gives way to the flattery of the defense of victims who are no longer victims. Faced with this and with a clearly wrong bill, which distinguishes crimes not according to the quality of the action, assuming that one must always protect the unique value of the person, but according to the category of belonging of the victim, one must not compromise. The more the text is read, the more the ideological character of this law emerges, which as such will be potentially harmful both from a cultural and a social point of view. First, to think of introducing in all schools initiatives against homophobia, biphobia and transphobia on the national day scheduled every year on 17 May means to bring into the school paths also of the elementary and middle classes contained in line with the establishment of the law, which are anything but universally shared, as happens instead for the days against the mafia and anti-Semitism, thus causing a dubious comprehensibility on the part of children, to whom one would end up believing that the experiences that go with reality are a fiction, being humanity not declined to the mafia and feminine but object of infinite identities, all this in an age in which one is forming the perception of self in relation to what surrounds them. It is obvious that in the intentions of the proposer it was necessary to do so because too vague were the concepts on which it was intended to build nothing less than criminal cases, with the claim of educating by code strokes. The problem then lies precisely in this intention to pursue as discriminatory those that are in fact different conceptions of human nature, the object of legitimate confrontation and beliefs deeply rooted in the consciousness of so many citizens. Here, as in a precipice of ideological extractions connected with one another, we enter fatally into the field of freedom of opinion, on which we have tried to put the protective shield in a sort of safe conduct, which is not enough. Too wide, in fact, is the space for the discretionary interpretation of what can instigate discriminatory acts or even violence. There are many questions that we are asking ourselves about the consequences of this legislation: who determines where and how a dissent can be exercised against what becomes a law of the State? Can the peer school that does not want to celebrate the anti-homophobia day do so or is it destined to pay for its intangible freedom? Will it still be lawful for a priest to express in preaching, to a catechist in his class, to a teacher in class, to a parent with his children concepts that could be called homophobia? Will the feminist who today contests at the root the concept of gender identity still be able to do so publicly? What makes the establishment of this law unbearable is the blatant violation of a constitutionally guaranteed right such as the freedom of one's own thought, as crystallized by Article 21 of the Constitution. In fact, the most problematic aspect of the Zan bill is that the unique thought produced by the politically correct would like to limit any debate. In a nutshell, anyone who expresses an opinion other than that of the promoters of the law is immediately accused of homophobia and its reasons belittled or excluded from the public debate. In conclusion, we of Brothers of Italy say no to the proposal of the draft law Zan because it questions in a dangerous way the expression of freedom of thought guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u91	Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u92	Mr President, the Zan bill in this House is fully in line with the typical culture of the Left which aims to erase identity and punish and persecute those who do not feel the same way. For months the left has tried to impose the unique thought and, if you don't think the same way, you are accused of racism, homophobia, transphobia and those who have more put it. The trouble with this left is that in what it does it is devious and this text is a clear example. The Zan bill is born with all the good intentions of defending people who feel discriminated against, but ends up condemning the rest of the world. It is clear from Article 1, which claims to be better than Wikipedia, that it is a law that is far from condemning discrimination, defining what sex, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity are. Do you really claim to enclose such vast concepts in an article and make them law? Maybe we need to remind you that we have an article in the Constitution that regulates equality. He definitely does it better. Do you really need your article 1 of this bill? Article 4 of this draft law is even worse. You say that they are without prejudice to the free expression of conviction or opinion as well as legitimate conduct attributable to pluralism of ideas or freedom of choice. And I'm glad. Then add that all ideas and opinions are fine, provided that they are not suitable to determine the real danger of discriminatory or violent acts being carried out. Now let's say who determines what is a real danger. When can a thought incite a violent act? What are the benchmarks? The vagueness of this article creates a void that is a serious threat to freedom of expression. You have even been able to trample on Article 21 of the Constitution on freedom of thought and what is worse is that you have done so in the name of the defence of subjects you consider weak and, instead, you are using as human shields. Contrary to what anyone wants to make believe, we are not homophobic, transophobic or racist, we are for the respect of ideas and you are for the respect for ideas deleted. We are for freedom: do you love whom you want, do what you want with your body; do we care little, but can we be free to say that the family is founded on the union of a man and a woman? Can we be free to say that the practice of renting a uterus is barbarism? Can we say that it is an injustice that an athlete, born biologically man, competes with women only because he feels woman, thus distorting the outcome of the races? Can we be proud to be mom and dad, instead of hiding behind 1-daughter and 2-daughter? Can we support this, or should we ask permission? Can we express our opinions without fear of a judge accusing us of inciting hatred? Here, we claim the right of each one to love as he believes, to ask for respect for his own love, but this does not mean being afraid to support his own ideas. For us the freedom to love is sacred, as the family is sacred, as children are sacred. We do not make hierarchies, but we invest in the future and we want to leave it to our children to build their own future without us imposing it on them with today's ideologies. You, on the other hand, have the claim to subtract education from parents in order to set up a day dedicated to gender ideology in schools; the same schools where sexual education is not taught. Be serious, leave the little ones out of this rule of law, also because injustices never disappear with iniquities: the law must be measured and whoever goes against the law that highlights bullying must be punished and only. To be honest, the law in force already provides punishment for those who discriminate, for those who offend, for those who use violence, regardless of who is the subject who has suffered those violence. Mr President, the laws are already there for us. Do you want to improve them? Instead, we are faced with a bill that will only fuel controversy and distortion. Today we are called upon to adopt a rule against violence, and that is precisely why we must be strict in not creating new ones, of violence. But you unfortunately insist that you do not understand that. That, to see this bill well, you don't like it, either, that you did it. You are so confused that you no longer know if your leader is Enrico Letta, Matteo Renzi or Federico Lucia, in arte Fedez. You let the influencers dictate the political line, but the difference between us and the influencers is that they make stories about Instagram, which last 24 hours, while we here should make history, which lasts longer than twenty-four hours. The truth is that the only force of opposition in this Parliament is Brothers of Italy, while you should have the overwhelming numbers to approve this law; but this is not the case and we have seen it in these hours. If we have come so far, it is because, when we said that this majority was too different to be together, we were right and the Zan bill is just another proof of all this. You are a majority that stands together to avoid voting, which has no ideas and those few that it has are also confused, twisted and dangerous, as evidenced by this law text that is in approval. Finally, allow us a note: how much hypocrisy in these benches. The same people who stand up today as champions, defenders of the rights of homosexuals, who condemn Orbán for having made a law against the spread of LGBT propaganda and condemn Giorgia Meloni who consistently does not deny the bond with Orbán, do not tear their clothes when it comes to making agreements with countries like Qatar, where we will play the next football world cup, or Saudi Arabia, where - be careful - not only homosexuality is a crime, but is also punished with death. Even on this you chat while we do the facts. We have shown the facts, as always, as the Brothers of Italy, that he has tabled a motion in Parliament to commit the Government to demand that the European Union openly condemn the States which provide for the crime of homosexuality in their systems and do not establish cultural cooperation agreements with them. Let's see if we have the unanimous support of all those who today feel LGBT rights champions. A community is always defended and not with alternating current. Mr President, can one really think that this Zan bill combats discrimination? This rule is an attempt to indoctrinate people to think in a certain way, erasing their identities, cultures, conquests, to make all of us nothing but numbers and codes. We do not stand and stand at this drift and will fight with all our strength to prevent it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u93	Senator Casolati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u94	Mr President, the Zan bill, this stranger, I think has been the most debated topic lately on TV and everywhere, but few, very few have bothered to read it. I would like to draw the attention of this House to something that no one has yet stressed: what impact will it have on the business world? The more you analyze in detail the Zan bill and the more hidden pitfalls emerge. There is something for everyone, including VAT matches, i.e. the self-employed in the world of business, profession, craftsmanship, commerce and so on. Article 8 expressly provides that the government body known as the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office, known as UNAR, shall draw up a three-year national strategy for preventing and combating discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. The strategy includes the definition of objectives and the identification of measures relating to education and education, work and security, including with regard to the prison situation, communication and the media. To understand what this is all about, just consider that in 2013 UNAR itself has already developed a national strategy precisely in the four areas indicated by the Zan bill that have been defined as axes: education and education, work, security and prison, communication and media. So let's see what the second axis of that strategy that the draft law Zan would like to give legal value through Article 8, namely that of private work, consisting of small, medium and large entrepreneurs, professionals, artisans, traders and VAT lots in general. The UNAR document emphasizes the importance of diversity management practices, promotes talent activation and increases corporate productivity on the so-called inclusive business. Information courses will certainly be followed to raise awareness among employers, management figures, workers and trade associations on LGBT issues, as well as the creation of LGBT networks within companies and the establishment at the level of senior management of the role of LGBT mentor. Then there will be the usual re-educational work and then there will be awareness and training courses for employees and for all levels of management that help to build mentoring programs and improve their professional paths; specific vocational training initiatives for transsexuals and transgenders and informative publications aimed at employers. We understand very well how behind this strategy is hidden, in a not too veiled way, the business of business consultants, professional trainers, of the certificaters of all that plethora of subjects arranged, after scented compensation, to explain how entrepreneurs and professionals will have to comply with the provisions dictated by the UNAR, a bit like what happened in the past with law n. 626 on safety at work and with the legislation on privacy. But do you really think that entrepreneurs, professionals, artisans, traders and self-employed workers of various kinds have nothing to say about this additional bureaucratic burden that would be placed on them in case the Zan bill were finally passed as it is? [[Applause]] As usual, the fall-back on the people living in the real world is little or nothing of interest to the legislator, more concerned about planting an ideological flag, not careless of annoyances, costs and tasks that could cause companies, especially small and medium-sized ones, already tried by the pandemic. It remains increasingly clear, from my point of view, the real objective of this bill that has nothing to do with the criminal protection of homosexuals and transsexuals. There are three real reasons for the Zan bill: indoctrinating not only the school but the entire society; gagging those who dare to disagree with the unique gay friendly thought; setting up a millionaire business. In short, three good reasons, these, to say no to this wretched and liberticidal bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u95	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u96	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, the issue of homophobia is very serious, like all forms of discrimination, but in this case we are unfortunately not able to discuss in a peaceful way the problems raised by this bill because, basically, the aim is not to protect people from discrimination, but to impose ideological positions on matters that have little or nothing to do with homophobia. The problem with the Zan bill is that it is not a measure against violence and discrimination against homosexuals - a subject on which we need to be very sensitive and attentive - but it is a bill which, in fact, includes in our legal system the crime of opinion - I repeat, the crime of opinion - leaving the judges a huge discretion to decide on a matter that has no legal certainty. In other European countries where there are already laws similar to the Zan bill I remember that, for example, a cardinal was investigated for saying that the family is made by a man and a woman; it also happened that a father spent a night in prison because he wore a shirt with a traditional family image printed above. So the real issue is to establish the real boundary between discrimination and legitimate freedom of opinion, a limit which, in our opinion, in this draft law does not place itself precisely in preventing any freedom of expression on fundamental issues for us. Brothers of Italy wants to fight violence and discrimination, and for this reason we have, so much so that we have also tabled a motion to condemn all those countries where homosexuality is still considered a crime, sometimes punished with life imprisonment and sometimes even with death. But on this level we did not find such a sensitive left. The left, however, continues along with the LGBT associations to denounce an increase of discrimination and homophobic crimes, denied instead by the data; and does not say a word, one that is one, about the Islamic world [[Applause]] , where homosexuality is considered a crime sometimes punished, as I said, with death. This leaves us, on the one hand, grounded but, on the other hand, shows the ideological position of the facade of this left. We note this together with the vast majority of Italians, who at this moment have much more to think about. Let's get back to the topic. Mr President, we want to reiterate our political position on some fundamental points: we do not agree with the attack on the traditional family, as we do not agree with the adoption by homosexual couples. We do not accept this discrimination against the natural family, because we believe that the natural family is the basis of our social system on which our community is founded. There is a risk that, in order to defend the rights of some, the rights of many are violated; in any case, it would be a mistake. We are also opposed to adoptions by homosexual couples, and we do not say this because we are homophobic, but because we argue that children should not be bought by adoptions with long and expensive iter - which we all know now - through the rent of a woman's uterus: this we cannot accept. And we say that because we are strongly convinced that a child must have the right to have a father and a mother and that this right cannot be sacrificed to the whim of free adults to live their sexuality as they best believe. As I said, this type of adoption as a consequence unfortunately leads to the practice of the uterus for rent: this is unacceptable because it means commercializing the body of a woman. All this is not good even for left feminists, who do not accept even them the Zan bill, as it claims in an interview on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) the historical feminist activist Marina Terragni, who has strong doubts about gender identity and self-id, which is a sort of gender self-certification. Mr President, I would also like to introduce this subject: gender self-definition. Colleagues, have you heard of the 270 prisoners declaring themselves women and asking to go to the women's prison? This really happened in California, where the self-id is law, and if the Zan bill is passed, it can happen by us too. Not to mention, then, those sectors - I am thinking of sport, sports competitions - rightly divided between women's and men's competitions, which cannot be put on the same level, where at that point, yes, we would create embarrassing situations, where discrimination would on the contrary penalise women in competing with physically male people. Perhaps the left does not realize the consequences that we might have in many areas, but - let me make the joke - it could be a way to resolve the issue of pink quotas in the elections! But let's move on, President. As for gender in schools, I wonder why, in the same school where it was decided not to do sex education, now we want to explain what homosexuality is. I remind myself and my colleagues that parents have authority over their children, and I think it is more appropriate that sexual education should not be done in schools. Children attending primary schools are still small to deal with certain subjects within the school institution and I think it is right that it should be the parents themselves who teach their children sexual education in the way they think most appropriate. If Zan passes the law, these children will be taught gender theories, confusing the minds of children of evolutionary age. And here too, the ideology of the Italian left is hurled against the Orbán law, calling it a law against LGBT propaganda. In fact, even if in tones sometimes even hard, it is a law that wants to defend precisely that principle of which I spoke before: the right of parents - and not of the State - to teach their children sexual education. You are hurling yourself against Hungarian law and do not say a word against all those Islamic states that actually and cruelly persecute homosexuals. One last thing, President, and I address you, fellow senators, so sensitive to the Zan bill. Disability is mentioned in this text. During the examination in the Chamber the Zan bill was integrated with the reference to disability. In my opinion, however, it is about an insertion that seems forced, even because it is not mentioned in some articles. Article 1 on definitions does not refer to disability; however, this term should be clarified where appropriate. Is this merely a forgetfulness, or certainly not, as I believe, since during the parliamentary work there was also a non-recall? I would like my fellow senators who claim to vote in favour of the adoption of the Zan bill as it is to explain what disability has to do with gender identity. Explain to me why I see only a desire to put the veil before the eyes of the Italians using the disabled for the ideological purposes of the left. I repeat that we are opposed to the womb for rent and adoptions for homosexuals and I ask you, Mr President, whether this is discrimination or a legitimate opinion. If the Zan proposal becomes law, we will no longer have the opportunity to express our thoughts freely because a constitutionally guaranteed right, that of freedom of opinion and expression, under the threat of homophobia, will fail. Brothers of Italy argue that discrimination of any kind should be combated, but it firmly protects the right of a child to have a mother and a father and believes that the womb for rent is barbarism. We don't want gags, ma'am, but it'll be what you expect if Zan's bill becomes law. That is why we strongly oppose it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u97	Senator Doria is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u98	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, today it is good to be extremely clear after much has already been written and said, sometimes even out of proportion, about the Zan bill. This measure, as it has been dismissed by the House of Deputies, is not only useless but also harmful because it is an ideological and demagogic instrument. In the first place, Italy is not at all a country hostile to homosexuals, neither according to the European rankings of gay friendly countries nor, let alone, to the reading of data relating to episodes of aggression against homosexuals. The data of the observers are very clear on this; there are some incidents, certainly to be condemned, but they are certainly not prevalent. There are much more violence against women or children, just to make a comparison, which is regularly pursued even harshly in the current regulatory framework. The current rules are perfectly capable of already hitting more forcefully any episodes of violence of this kind, without having to invent a new case. Secondly, the Zan bill is harmful because ideologically oriented to impose a view on reality, erasing different positions. The total legal uncertainty of the so-called homophobia crime makes the application of the law extremely uncertain, entrusted to the interpretation of the judge, thus exposing legitimate claims of freedom of opinion to the risk of being accused of homophobia. If I say that a child is entitled to a father and a mother, I wonder whether I am homophobic or not. If I claim that it is not legitimate to find a child born abroad on a woman's contract, am I homophobic? Mr Zan has never answered such questions clearly. [[Applause]] That this problem is real and that therefore the Zan bill is harmful confirms it the propaganda and reeducational system of so many parts of the text that does not only ask for heavier penalties for concrete acts of violence, but builds a whole series of propaganda activities gender - the national day of May 17, the courses in schools even to children of ten to twelve years old - that obviously serve to condition the freedom of opinion rather than to protect the possible victims. A final point for which the draft law Zan must be rejected in the present draft is the formulation of the crucial article 3 which, in the amended version, reads textual words: "For the purposes of this law, the free expression of convictions or opinions as well as legitimate conduct attributable to the pluralism of ideas or the freedom of choice, provided that it is not suitable to determine the real danger of the fulfilment of discriminatory or violent acts." Firstly, it should alarm every citizen to have to write in a law that is without free expression. [[Applause]] There would be no more in a democratic state and in law, for those who believe, like us, that the freedoms of citizens are enshrined in the Constitution and not by a concession of politics or a law any much more ephemeral than the constitutional dictation. To conclude, I urge all the senators present to have a whirlwind of pride and personal responsibility to deny the approval of the text amended by the Chamber of Deputies, which is certainly perfectible. This is a highly divisive measure especially in the country, even before among the parties, and most inappropriate in the face of constant demands for responsibility and national unity. This is not about denying rights and protecting people when they need them, but rather about rejecting a law that risks becoming a liberticide ideological court without any real protection against homosexuals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u99	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u100	Mr. President, I'm joining the Brothers of Italy marathon. I would also like to say that there are many voices outside this House against the illiberal outcome of the Zan bill. So it's not just us. There is the appeal of more than 70 associations coordinated by the Polis Pro persona (Polis Pro persona), there is the letter150 (Letter 150), a think-tank of more than 300 teachers. There are also outstanding constitutionalists and lawyers, who have spoken in recent months and days, claiming that the draft law Zan crystallizes in legal norms some unclear definitions and still the subject of scientific debate. The Zan bill, in fact, renders punishable any form of criticism or dissent with respect to the issues of the provision. I would like to point out to the few present in this House that we are not talking about increasing the rights and freedoms of people, but only about crimes. I would like this, at least out of here, to be clear: we are not talking about rights, we are talking about crimes, because everything has been put at the criminal level and it is for this reason that we come to the paradox that some constitutional freedoms can be the subject of criminal sanctions. The most dangerous, most critical articles for us are certainly Articles 1, 2, 4 and 7, but that does not exclude the others; I will not be able to deal with them all, but something I intend to say, in particular on Article 4, which contains the clause that reaffirms the punishableness of opinions that would complement the real danger of discrimination and violence. Therefore, deciding what incites violence and what does not remain a prerogative of the magistrate, which seems dangerous to me. The judges are therefore left with a wide discretion in the assessment of what is to be punished with the risk of arbitraryness, even contrary to constitutional principles, and that is not what I say about lawyers. There is therefore the risk of an over-interpretation in the case law, as the eminent jurist Giovanni Maria Flick says. We must also stress that Article 4 uses the following expression that struck me: inappropriate ideas, which can therefore lead to the risk of discrimination and the risk of violent acts. So a law will determine what are the right and legitimate ideas? This is at least alarming. If it is right to sanction discriminatory conduct, as is already foreseen, you must recognize that it is difficult to understand where the legitimate choice, decision and expression of a thought ends and where the discriminatory act or incitement to the discriminatory act begins. I'm referring to Article 2 on incitement. If it is easier to identify discrimination based on race or religion, i.e. on religious orientation, it is much more difficult to identify discrimination based on sex; in fact, it is no coincidence that the 1966 UN resolution does not add sex alongside race and religion, but Italy has filled this gap when it amended Article 3 of the Constitution, which, however, seems that the extensors of the Zan bill do not recognize. Article 4 also risks the interpretative abyss, because - and the following is a legal position, not mine - it is necessary that the law describes illicit and prohibited conduct on time. It cannot be the judge who defines the prohibited action and points out its facts. A judge may (and must) assess the lawfulness of a conduct, but he cannot assess the lawfulness of an idea, unless we decide that there is a crime of opinion, which is what the extensors of the law in fact decided [[Applause]] Another extremely controversial point, which is, however, particularly dear to me because I have been studying for some time, is that contained in Article 1. It is incredible that within a law we want to define what is meant by sex (biological or historical), by gender (external manifestation), sexual orientation (attraction for), gender identity (acknowledgment of self). The question is as follows: while you elaborate this article 1, what is the anthropological model to which you refer? Basically, in fact, Parliament is deciding and imposing an anthropological, ethical and philosophical model with these little words, when none of us, for example, ever thought of imposing an anthropological model of Christian origins, in which I personally believe, but we were, were and lived in a secular state. [[Applause]] In the Zan bill, gender identity is subjective - I stress - and identifies itself with the perception that one has of one's own sex; the real objective data is therefore erased and leads, as a result, to a sexual indifference. But that is not all, there is more: the notion of gender identity, introduced by Article 1, is labile, because it is precisely a subjective, changing and transitory perception and everything can be perceived as discrimination compared to a concept so labile and fluid. This concept also occurs in the other norms of the design and creates confusion, because the unity and identity of the individual are broken down into a plurality of biological or naturalistic categories, forgetting, for example, one thing: the constitutional protection of the person. This lability of definition makes it difficult to distinguish between opinions and discrimination. Here the game is very clear, but it goes a moment overturned this trap and it has nothing to do with homophobia; if one does not share this system it is not homophobic. Here it has to do with the fact that you are imposing an anthropological model of a certain type; here it has to do with the fact that in schools, where there is no sexual education, there will be gender education; here it has to do with the fact that we are faced with the greatest ideological offensive on the part, precisely, of the priests of gender. This is the point and the operation - which is political, but it is also mass-media - is accompanied by an intolerant ideological fury that - I assure you - I have also done the seventies I do not remember: a fury so I do not remember it. A gender outrage that binds, among other things, to the tyranny of one thought, to the exasperation of the so-called cursed - I would add - politically correct: there is this in the Zan operation. This is the node, this is the point; the rest is what you tell, it is a storytelling, because here there is the precise will to re-educate, in fact I mean to reprogram culturally children, young people, people and therefore society. Therefore, freedom of love is not at stake, as you tell us; that is not the point, because we are not against this freedom to love each other. There's more at stake here: everything I'm saying is at stake and what you call help, which is actually a push for children to pass from one sex to another based on self-perception, as if all children suffer from gender dysphoria. Then it is very dangerous what you want to do, it is really beyond, because then the horizon is clear: gender ideology and say it, even if it is not written, that then there is the mission of surrogacy, of the uterus for rent, of the adoption of gay couples. [[Applause]] Tell him that in Europe they want to put this crime in hate crimes. Tell him that in Europe today, among the Eurocrimes, they wanted to include not gender violence (once you defended women, today no longer), but violence based on perceived and non-biological sexual gender. I'm out, ma'am. Then to you your dogmas, new priests of a genderfluid society, in which everything is possible in indistinct, everything is allowed, except to think and think differently from what you write. Brothers of Italy will fight everywhere against this bill of liberticide, dangerous and useless. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u101	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great care, serenity and calmness to the long debate that has gone through these hours, although I sincerely hope that some of my colleagues who have spoken will be in bad faith rather than think that they really believe what they say. It scares me to imagine that today in the Italian Parliament, in the Senate of the Republic, there really is an argument against this type of argument, which is more than legitimate to a provision of law (there would be no more). But, in order to argue against it, you don't have to go inciting fears and telling who knows what plots and ideologies that would be in place. Here everything is very simple: on some issues we have different opinions, even compared to those who one day reach out, but then he should listen to the speeches of his parliamentarians, because I have not seen so many of them today and, if they were tense, they risked getting somewhere else and not to tighten. Whoever stretches the hand proposes to limit the intervention to the punitive field. Here, this is a point of difference: we think that the educational component and the cultural component of this law provision are very important. So we tried, with great tranquility, listening to everyone, comparing ourselves, trying to find points of contact and investing a lot of time (because this measure we are not doing with a snap of fingers), and we believed that the Italian Parliament was able, in 2021, to approve a law that also provided the possibility of helping this country to take note that there are so many different forms of being together, of conceiving one's life, of realizing one's self, of loving and of building a family. Many different forms: in modernity there is also this. I must say that in the speeches of these hours I have felt so much fear of complexity, so much need for order, so much need for objectivity. But order and objectivity, on which the philosophy of the twentieth century has written hundreds of pages, no longer exist; it must be noted that disorder exists, that chaos exists, that complexity exists and that within this panorama we must live with serenity, giving everyone the opportunity to find their own way, without making anyone believe that there are right roads and wrong roads. I have practically never read in Parliament in recent years. Today I want to make an exception, because I didn't know it would happen, but on Monday I received a letter that really moved me. It is a letter that speaks of children (many have spoken of children in this House); it is a letter that speaks of children, written by a boy from my territory who is no longer a child, but who remembers when he was a child and when, as a child, he tried to understand if he could be as he felt he was and unfortunately thought he could not do it. I'll just read you a little bit. This letter says: If someone at school had told me that we can exist like others, that we too are a viable possibility in the world and in society, my life would have had much less suffering. I spent 25 years in secrecy and shame, in exclusion, in fear of being rejected by family, friends and the world. And then I beg you: think about children, teach them not to hate and hate themselves because of their gender identity or sexuality. We do education especially in schools for this. [[Applause]] This is a point on which we probably disagree and cannot reach an agreement, because it is not that we can reach an agreement regardless of what the agreement is; this is a fundamental point for us. Will we be able to approve it? We hope so, and we will do everything we can to do so. We won't be able to approve it? Someone will assume this responsibility, because the question is whether these people have the possibility to exist. I know a lot of them, and by the way, I know that mine is a privileged observatory. I think I have a very dear person who has an important history, culturally important, and who has waited, however, for his father to be no longer in this world in order to declare himself openly homosexual, because he always thought that he could not give him a pain, the pain of being who he was. He waited until he was gone: this is Italy from the 2000s. And this is a cultured person, a lucky person, a well-being person. How many people like that don't even have the cultural tools to figure out what's going on? So we really want to take charge of these stories? I am thinking here today of these people and of the fact that we have a duty. Parliament's main duty is not to quibble if there is risk, possibility or danger, which are the words I have heard come back most often in the debate in this House. You see, ladies and gentlemen, they are to decriminalize the vast majority of crimes and therefore I belong to a minority, but now there are people who have lived through their entire political history with the idea of punishing, striking and the wrong payer, who come to explain to me that the judges might also be wrong to evaluate and that they might even exceed in the penalty. But hell if I know, I'm in favour of taking away the instruments to punish! On the other hand, only in this case do we worry that judges may be wrong. The judges serve this purpose, and I believe that the text before us is a text that allows, in our judicial system, that is articulated, complex, with three degrees of judgment, to avoid that someone is punished for crimes that he has not committed. I've heard some thinking about stigma, too. Of course, of course! Of course, someone has turned out to be a guarantee in recent months, but he has arrived in Parliament, as a political force, waving the noose and in that case the problem of taking out a ruling class with stigma was not there. The problem arises only when it concerns others. Look, we are absolutely so that all opinions can be expressed, but there is a great difference between expressing an opinion and, with your own opinion, ensuring that someone can be hurt, struck, humiliated and perhaps mistreated. This is the point of the bill when we examine it. It is said that the bill at our examination is part of an anthropological reading of reality. It would not be a fault if the Italian Parliament could occasionally develop a cultural thought, read reality and understand how it should be updated. The reality must be updated in the sense that today the complexity of the definition of identity is much more complicated, from all points of view. It is difficult to define your nationality and therefore there are so many people in the country who have been Italian for a long time, but we have not yet been able to recognize that there are and there is someone who has difficulty in doing so. Then there are many people who, during their lives, have perhaps changed their perception of themselves. In fact, we all have a perception of ourselves, which is transformed, among other things, not only from the sexual point of view, but also from the physical point of view, because our body changes continuously. Well, in the face of this, what do we want to do? Do we want to hide and try to close the world in tight links, which do not belong to it, or do we want to try to open up and produce a reassuring thought? Well, yes, we have an anthropology: it would be very nice. As a Democratic Party - but we share it, fortunately, with other forces - we think that there is an anthropology of plurality, of the possibility of being different in the course of one's life, of the possibility of experiencing oneself and of trying to taste different moments of one's life and that all this cannot be judged and condemned. You see, colleagues, there's a time to discuss, and there's a time to decide. We have discussed a lot: today we must tell the country if it is mature to say that hating is a crime and that educating in plurality is a positive fact. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u103	She is registered to speak Senator Angrisani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the country's eyes are alert to our work, because today we are discussing a legislative project that is close to the hearts of millions of Italians. We cannot, in conscience, turn to the other side. The great battles on civil rights, as in the case of divorce, abortion and civil unions, have marked the democratic path of our country and its legal system. We are now faced with a text amending Articles 604-a and 604-b of the Criminal Code and establishing the extension of crimes against equality, to add discrimination on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds to discriminatory acts based on sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and disability. The issue of greater contrast to discrimination and violence for sexual reasons is not new. Unfortunately, the archives of the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies abound with legislative proposals presented in the current and past legislatures to combat more effectively the episodes of homophobia and transphobia and there will be a valid reason for this. Beyond the technicalities of the Zan bill, of which many have discussed, we are faced with a situation of fact that sees the factions of those who consider the text useless and ambiguous and of those who, on the contrary, consider it not only opportune but also indifferent. The question is as follows: we know that there has already been a mediation in the Chamber of Deputies at first reading and provision has been made for the inclusion in the body of legislation of Article 4 which, in order to avoid any intentionally dubious interpretation of the new provisions, protects the free expression of conviction or opinion, as well as legitimate conduct attributable to the pluralism of ideas or the freedom of choice, provided that it is not suitable to determine the real danger of discriminatory or violent acts being carried out. What I mean to say is that the compromise on the wording of the text has already been found in Parliament and that, at that time, this branch of Parliament cannot afford to bring everything back to its starting point as in the game of goose, if it does not intend to bring down definitively the legislative path of an issue that, rightly, a large part of our country considers priority. This appeal is therefore directed not to the so-called Group discipline - the positions have long been known - but to the individual conscience of every senator, because by assuming this institutional function you must be fully aware of the consequences related to the responsibilities of your choices. The information campaigns and the mobilizations of many Italian squares in recent times demonstrate the importance of the approval of the Zan bill outside the buildings of the institutions, to build a more cohesive and inclusive community, where every episode of incitement to violence and intolerance is repressed in the bud. Those who seek a foothold under the pretext of reference to the concept of gender identity inserted within the device or, on the contrary, manipulate their interlocutors so as not to openly declare their opposition to the bill because it is politically inappropriate. The expression "gender identity," in fact, has already found entry in an Italian legislative text with the transposition of Directive No. 95 of 2011, happened with the legislative decree of 2014 on the award of refugee status in the penitentiary and constitutional jurisprudence. Therefore, if we remain inert in the face of the dangerous increase in violence and abuse for reasons based on sex, sexual orientation or gender identity, which to date represent the three reasons for discrimination most often mentioned, we easily offer our support to the initiatives of the right and that part of the country, which is minority but not at all silent, which, as always, simplifying as far as the unlikely message launched outside, tends to minimize the importance and impact of stronger measures of contrast against any phenomenon of oppression and intolerance. It is no longer the time to stop or wait, therefore, because there are those who are waiting for an important signal from this Parliament and a clear condemnation of those who hate and incite violence, trampling without restraint human dignity and the freedom to live according to their own guidelines. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u105	Mr. President, do you need this law? Was it necessary, was it necessary for Parliament to approve it? I don't think so. However, the left and some manipulators of thought - I do not even want to call them manipulators - have created a suggestion with false information, incorrect, regulated on the net; the influencers who do not know the criminal law, do not know the laws in force in this country and have generated a conviction in the country that is based on the fact that those who want the law Zan contrasts the violence, the aggressions, the episodes as there have been also recently, and those who do not want the law Zan is open to aggressions, violence, the bullies. This is the great lie that we must wipe out because it is absolutely not true. We already have a number of rules in our system to punish those who commit any acts of violence. With the aggravating factors, when there are futile and abject motives, it is possible to punish even more severely those who, for reasons of discrimination, sexual prejudice or homophobia - a term that has been coined in recent years - perform violence. So, it is not true that there is a regulatory vacuum. Those who claim it are liars. That third-order squeezers do so may go, but that legislators feed this lie is unacceptable. I see, sometimes, even in our families and in our political part, the suggestion of the lie that prevails over the truth. It must be explained to the people that, with the futile and abject motivations, anyone can be punished more severely; that there are rules of the penal code placed at the garrison of the safety of citizens with very severe punishments and that, although no one should underestimate even a single episode of violence, the statistical data released by the Observatory for the safety against discriminatory acts show that in the course of almost a decade the episodes - I do not want to underestimate them - count in the order of a few tens. There is no gigantic emergency that justifies a decree and, however, even one act of violence would justify the worsening of the rules. Do you want to make the rules worse? We have proposed this with the text of the law presented by some members of the centre-right. Someone must also explain to us what has to do with the aggravated and reinforced sanction of those who perform for reasons of sexual prejudice of acts of violence or discrimination all the rest of the law. Article 1 of the Zan bill attempts to introduce an anthropological revolution in the country with a rule that is more relevant than an article in the Constitution. Shame on you that you brought this measure to the House without discussing it in the Commission. Shame on you guys trying to put on a gag. You can put on the mask, which we have to wear for health reasons, but we will not shut our mouths because Article 1 is very serious. In fact, it changes the life of the country. The Constitution does not contain such important articles in all its parts. There are fundamentals; there are other rules of the Constitution, which we all agree with, but which are wishful thinking. Who wants to deny the right to work? The Constitution, however, does not solve it. He says so. Article 1 speaks of self-identification perceived and manifested in relation to gender, even if not gender-related, regardless of whether or not a transition has been made. There are people who change sex and these things need to be recognized and accompanied. But, when there is no transformation or change, Article 1 of this law introduces a crazy anthropological revolution, which is not acceptable, is unconstitutional and the Presidency of the Republic could never sign with a endorsement a law that Parliament should approve. In fact, it has nothing to do with the punishment aggravated the introduction of this anthropological revolution with an article that is more important than a rule of the Constitution than the left, its dependances and aggregations of other nature would like to approve without even having a real and in-depth discussion. There has been no such thing in the Commission and we are doing it in this House. Article 1 is aberrant, unacceptable and discriminatory against the citizens of this Republic. It is unconstitutional and has nothing to do with the sacrosanct fight against violence. It has to be explained to the country. If you approve this law as it is, everyone can declare gender and sex membership at any time by changing even several times, because you cannot prevent it from being a person. There have been many examples of athletes and pink odds. I do not want to dwell on this, but I say that we cannot admit an indiscriminate will to change gender membership beyond any appearance. Article 4 on pluralism of ideas and freedom of choice contains legal formulas which illustrious lawyers of all directions have criticized. It is said in article 4: "For the purposes of this law, they are without prejudice to the free expression of beliefs or opinions" - the bill says that they are saved: in short, you could talk a little, but... - and legitimate conduct attributable to the purism of ideas or to the freedom of choice, provided that it is not suitable to determine the real danger of discriminatory or violent acts being carried out, thereby entrusting the judge with a selection of opinions. We have seen, from the Palamara case and from the shame of the CSM, who are the magistrates in this country. It may be a minority, for the most part they are good, but I see this majority of good and honest magistrates, dear Senator Caliendo, silent in the country. Instead, I saw the effects of the biased minority and conditioned by a left-wing ideology, and left-wing ideology as an adjective. I don't want to put opinions in the hands of the judiciary. The aggressions we punish more severely, the discriminations we ban them, but I believe that Article 4, as it is, would put opinions in the hands of the users of "palamarism" to the prosecutors appointed in the ignoble manners that we have seen. I wonder why he investigates Palamara and not Pignatone, who was the prosecutor of the Republic who, according to the book of Sallusti, took the croissants in Palamara's house talking with the section president of the Council of State, who had to decide on the appeal for the appointment of the prosecutor of the Republic of Palermo. When was a Pignatone investigation for influence trafficking? I don't want my opinions to go into the hands of Pignatone from all over Italy, who violated the law. I say this in Parliament because at least here I can say it and because it is the truth. [[Applause]] There are so many other things that don't work. Article 7 on school, with the establishment of gender day: six or seven-year-olds should hear the lessons of association X or Y explaining things that those same children do not have critical tools to evaluate. You don't do sex education, but you do transsexual education in schools. We move on to transsexual education, without going through intermediate stages. [[Applause]] Sexual education in schools, how to introduce it, critical tools can be discussed. The formation is also entrusted to families, who ultimately, in the face of such small children, maintain an educational sovereignty that cannot be cancelled. What's Article 7 for? We are doing the day against violence; we are doing lessons in schools against discrimination quite rightly, but one thing of this nature, introduced by Article 7, is absolutely not good. Disability is mentioned somewhere, as a fetish, but is ignored elsewhere. This bill - Zan, shame on you! - exploits disability, because it cares about 90 percent of the articles and mentions it only in some parts. [[Applause]] Zan and those who vote for this law are making a discriminatory act against disabled people, mentioned in some cases, ignored in many other provisions of the text. Those who vote in favour of this bill of protection for people with disabilities do not care. That's the truth. We therefore have a thousand reasons to oppose this measure. Mr President, in conclusion - and I thank you for your kindness - I believe that we must discuss the aggravating factors, if necessary, but there are already some, because there is no legislative vacuum. Is there any common sense that wants to punish these events more severely? All right, let's do it. But you can't use this law to surreptitiously change the state and culture of the country, with article 1 and gender self-declaration, article 4 and opinion crimes, article 7 and gender indoctrination. We have every right to oppose this bill. Let us therefore return to the Commission to restrict intervention in the strongest, most severe fight against violence and avoid distorting the life and culture of this country and even natural law. This is a text that not only the President of the Republic could not sign, but that any person of common sense, if explained to him how we are trying to do with this debate, would understand that it is unacceptable and therefore to be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u106	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u107	Mr President, in the most serious economic crisis that is unfortunately afflicting our country, we have been subtlely trying to point out for months to this majority that we are in the midst of the worst emergency that Italy has known since the post-war period. Well, at this moment there is uncertainty, especially as regards the future of millions of people, of millions of Italians who are waiting for Parliament to work 24 hours a day to answer too many questions of health and economic survival. If we are discussing measures to prevent and combat discrimination and violence on grounds of sex, gender and sexual orientation in this House today, it means that clearly some of the majority do not realize that at the moment you are closed inside the building to displeasing ideological questions about manifest laws, marking an abysmal distance with the people who live outside instead and who would like to see you work and do something different. Evidently someone lives in a parallel reality, made only of ideology, instead of the unfortunately dramatic reality that normal people live on the street every day. Well, you have imposed this agenda, arguing - from my point of view for no reason, and we have been saying so for a long time - that there is an emergency and a regulatory vacuum, when it is clear that this is not the case. Looking at many statistics and reports, it appears that discrimination based on sexual orientation is a minority part of other more frequent cases of discrimination, and especially that what matters most is that these discriminations are already covered by our legal system and there is no legal vacuum. We have tried to say that and prove it several times. There are many judgments of civil and criminal headquarters that show that today in Italy discrimination is already adequately sanctioned by our system. You obviously don't even care about Article 3 of the Constitution. Even today, those who discriminate can still be punished by our order. On the other hand, you are interested in creating a category that is more equal than the others, which has additional protection than the others. You want a manifest law, a law in which your ideologies are codified in a criminal norm that can punish those who do not recognize themselves in them. Criminal laws also need certainty, while Zan's bill introduces elements of indeterminateness. Above all, the amendments and requests we have tried to make to the House on these points have been ignored. Those amendments were intended to introduce reasonableness into the text, for example by linking the crime to a course of action which would constitute a real danger and an effective accession, starting with the transition to the House. You incomprehensiblely ignored them. We also proposed amendments to the House at first reading, which tried to clarify that criminality can be a matter of partisan action, because if a person considers himself offended he can file a complaint and, in the event that the case becomes otherwise clear, the complaint can also be remissable. Instead, you have imposed the procedure of office, even in the absence of a real danger and of a person offended to sue. This is frankly inexplicable, or rather it is always explained by the will to introduce a crime of opinion, a manifest ideological norm that goes beyond the principles of common sense of our criminal law. We also called for discriminatory conduct to be extended. So let's get to the point: what do we mean by incitement to hatred and discrimination of homosexuals? Can we consider a Mass celebrated to pray against the planning of this law an act of incitement to discrimination? It should be remembered in this regard the disturbing episode of Lizzano, where a simple vigil of prayer has unleashed outside the parish premises a flash mob of protesters, with the subsequent interventions of the public force and also of the mayor of the City. Can we consider incitement to hatred and discrimination a public demonstration against the phenomenon, now widespread and practiced, of the uterus for rent and also other? Colleagues, in the face of such a labile and uncertain boundary between lawful and unlawful, can you reasonably exclude that no judge and public prosecutor will ever pursue Catholic priests or other religious confessions, mere believers or secular movements that become protagonists, on the basis of their religious beliefs, of more or less striking disputes, of phenomena such as the uterus for rent or the rainbow families? Can we not accept that the bearer of a convinced religious belief but also a lay political exponent can only risk being indicted because they may show excessive and eccentric ideas unwelcome to someone?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u108	I declare closed the vote for the election of two members of the board of directors of RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana SpA. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the scrub of the ballots. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). They took part in the vote the senators: Abate, Agostinelli, Aimi, Alderisi, Alessandrini, Alfieri, Anastasia, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barboni, Barboni, Battistoni, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Biandrini, Biti, Boldrini, Bongiorno, Borghesi, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Briziarelli, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Cesaro, Cioffi, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Bingini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Casolati, Coradodi, Castiello, Croxicca
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u109	As I said, I want to remember that the trial itself is a penalty and we cannot forget it. For this reason the normative perimeter placed as the garrison of the bulwark of freedom of thought and also of freedom of opinion must remain the widest, avoiding with the utmost care to allow the judge any interpretative discretion. We cannot risk that in our country it is lawful to blaspheme the God of Christians like the God of Muslims, but it is forbidden and punished to blaspheme the uterus for rent. Then we also make proposals: in order to eradicate these hateful episodes we must act especially in the school and in the periphery, through the media, and by teaching young people and even the younger ones the value of tolerance and respect for diversity. Is it worth introducing these liberticide changes that have a devastating effect on freedom of thought and opinion, which is one of the key principles of the liberal state? Mr President, the Zan bill, in the name of tolerance towards a category that could very well be protected with written rules in a different way and with the rules in force, wants to impose the propaganda of ideology in schools also on children: we have said so in all sauces today and even in recent weeks. And this will happen, because in some schools, where we may have particularly enterprising principals and teachers, or in prosecutors, where we will have particularly ideologically oriented magistrates, this can happen: we can cross the threshold of a concrete crime and we will go to punish instead a free expression of thought. That is why we shall vote against it, because it is not possible for an ideological minority to gag the majority of Italians. Let us hope that the Senate - we still have time - also through the discussions of the next days and next week - and I would say finally in this Assembly - will remedy this ideological madness and bring it back to normal by changing the rules of this law or failing it: that is what we are asking for. Definitely out loud and in all the locations we will try to carry out our convinced no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u110	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u111	Mr President, the bill that finally arrives today for the debate in this House is an urgent and necessary measure to stem, combat, prevent and punish a widespread and unbearable phenomenon of violence. In recent months we have seen an absurd debate based on a assumption that it should not even be taken into account, namely the need to have a law aimed at resolving the massive discrimination suffered by some of the citizens. Yes, because there are those in Italian politics and the Italian community who deny that there are hate and intolerance behaviors based on sexual orientation, gender identity and disability. I find it hard to believe that there are those who are not. I think there are ideological reasons for this. [[Applause]] that pushes some to label differently, underestimating them, the episodes we deal with every day. We are talking about authentic physical and psychological violence; acts that can undermine or destroy a person's life, serenity and inner balance. Colleagues, colleagues, unfortunately, those who base their political action on the word 'freedom', a term often abused or used without fully knowing its meaning, should understand well the objective of this law: every person must have the freedom to live and express his or her sexuality, his or her essence. That this is often prevented or repressed through deprivation, derision, public humiliation, ghettoization and even physical violence is a horror. The scenery we have witnessed within the institutions is a failure of politics. The bill against homotransphobia has experienced months of tension and an authentic legislative ordeal in the Senate, in particular in the Justice Commission. Those who are not informed might think that this was a normal comparison between different political positions which, in the face of a new proposal, express their orientation. We know very well that this was not the case. This text was born in the House long before. It is the result of a long debate of merit that has seen all political forces dialogue, also on the basis of the opinion received from important lawyers. Several legislative proposals have been compared, including that of the Movimento 5 Stars. An investigation was carried out at the tip of the law, as well as sociological. We have reached a basic text that has gone beyond the path in the Commission and in this House without clamor and without particular problems. The colleagues of Italy Viva know very well that the proposals that they propose today had been overcome with their own consent in that path made to the House. Arriving in the Senate, the text became the object of a hard struggle. Why? In my opinion, the right - the League in particular - has deliberately chosen to make it an ideological issue, seeking consensus in the most obscurantist sub-funds of the country. [[Applause]] But in this way you must take responsibility for people suffering from frustrations, pains, fears, and even wounds on their bodies. President, no one better than us in the 5 Star Movement knows that the League, from the beginning of the legislature, firmly states that the contrast to homotransphobia is not a priority at all; on the contrary, there are those who deny that this form of intolerance exists. Finally, we know that what the League has done in the Justice Commission has been a real obstruction in order to lose days, weeks and months, for the sole purpose of boycotting the legislative process. That is the truth and we also saw it yesterday and today. The reality is that, behind empty declarations, there is a machist and homophobic subculture, which does not want to extend rights to certain categories. How can we believe Salvini's words about tolerance and equality after she signed that obscene document with President Orbán? [[Applause]] Why are you afraid to fully express in public your anachronistic reactionary ideology, of which you are so proud in Europe? It would take less hypocrisy and more courage even for ideas than courageous ones have nothing, but at least one must assume the responsibility to have. Allow me to invite those who have these ideas to open their hearts, but above all their brains to understand that guaranteeing rights does not mean taking them away from them and that this law, beyond the falsehoods that have been said, allows everyone to be protected in the expression of their own self, exactly like the implicit protections that heterosexuals enjoy every day without Noticing. Today Senator Pillon told us many stories, even brandishing his faith, but he sneaked away from quoting the words of the Pope. Francis says that homosexuals are children of God and have a right to a family; no one should be denied this possibility. And again, the Holy Father continues, "The lobbying, all are not good (...) If a person is gay and seeks the Lord (...) who am I to judge her? [[Applause]] That these people should not be discriminated against or marginalized, even catechism says so. I repeat that these are not my words, but the Pope's. Senator Pillon, deal with this. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u112	Senator Pillon, please, Senator Ferrara already promised me five minutes and we're seven.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u113	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I have ten minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, she told me five minutes. Next time I'll remember it and you'll wait the next day to intervene. FERRARA (M5S). Let us clear the field of unbearable tactics and let us all return together to observe the problem that affects many of our fellow citizens out there. Some figures can help us to understand better: every day there are about 50 requests for help from people affected by episodes of homophobia, lesbophobia, biphobia and transphobia. There are about 20,000 cases a year; cases that must become crimes. I conclude by saying that for Movimento 5 Stars the choice to be made in this House is mandatory. We once again stand on the side of the rights that must always be strengthened and extended. Every citizen has the sacred right to live with serenity, without awe or fear, his own sexuality. The time has come to free us from a medieval anachronistic subculture. Colleagues and colleagues, we are in 2021: we approve the bill on our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u114	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u115	Mr President, I rise briefly to draw the House's attention to a rather serious situation that is taking place in my own territory, and in particular in the judicial offices of the Monza Court. "We would like a vaccine for Monzese justice": these are the words of the president of the Monza Bar Association, who a few weeks ago launched an open letter to denounce the absolute abandonment of the judicial offices. I recall, in particular, that the Monza Court is the sixth out of 140 courts per catchment area and includes my Brianza, my populous and hardworking land, and is in the 21st place as a magistrate's staff. The President of the Bar Association complains - also in agreement with the President of the Court and all the representatives of the judicial offices - an administrative staff of 86 out of 152 operatives. The actual results of this deficiency are that, in order to have even just one eviction or foreclosure hearing with third parties, they must take more than eight months. Mr President, since we have been talking so much about reforming the civil process, the criminal process, the Supreme Council of the judiciary and justice in the broadest sense in recent weeks and months, we cannot be silent that a racing machine needs petrol and, in particular, within the courts, petrol is the people, the human resources who worked there and who carry on their work for the protection of citizens. Let us remember that the courts are nothing but the place where the law and the protection of citizens must find form and full implementation. I launch this alarm cry heard all the workers of the Monzese justice of which I make spokesperson. I know that Minister Cartabia is very sensitive about this, as he has repeatedly said, as is the Undersecretary here today. However, I call for this alarm because we cannot abandon such important courts as the Monza Court, leaving justice essentially as the predecessor of Minister Cartabia had left it, who, despite repeated appeals and repeated requests, has basically done nothing. I trust that the Ministry will be able to move and act so that this kind of deficiency will cease and, therefore, law and justice can be fully implemented in Monzese territory as well. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u118	ANGRISANI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 1 July, following the release of redundancies, what we feared was happening in various parts of Italy: many companies are closing down and the workers are left to themselves. After the cases of GKN and Gianetti, today it has reached the Whirlpool in Naples. On the crisis of the Neapolitan plant, the announcements on social media by the former Minister and his successor, that guaranteed solutions that have never arrived, stalling to more I can not to camouflage what today, with the layoffs that have emerged these days, appears like a bluff. From the chatter of politics to the promises of Whirlpool we soon reached the sad episode of the collective dismissal of 350 employees of the multinational just ended the block of dismissals, a deadline that the Government did not want to extend. The decision of Whirlpool to close the site of Naples on December 31, 2020 to relocate production where wages are lower, despite an agreement with the Italian Government and 50 million euros of public subsidies received since 2014, makes dramatic the condition of the workers who were directly involved in the production and that of about 1,000 workers of the induced. This happens in conjunction with the crisis caused by Covid-19, passed from health emergency to social emergency, which has aggravated the already precarious economic picture of a territory such as Campania, already strongly depressed in terms of employment. In the meantime, we must remember that, while the Ministers dealt with the company's top management, Whirlpool's intentions in Europe and Italy were already clearly written in the end-2018 group's budget. In that accounting document, in fact, the company, which had just signed the agreement for all other Italian sites, expressly clarified that it would undertake strong actions to recover costs in the area of Europe, the Middle East and Africa. But let us now come to the mistakes of this Government today, which knew that, by not prolonging the blockade of redundancies, it would trigger an unprecedented social crisis, precisely at a time of deep crisis for the entire national and world economy. How can such a thing be done? Has the spirit of solidarity and social protection been completely lost, ladies and gentlemen? I hope that the Commission will make a real effort as soon as possible to intervene with extraordinary measures in favour of those workers, not only from the point of view of economic support, but also of reintegration into the world of work. My full support goes to you, dear workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u119	Colleagues, we suspend our work pending the results of the ballot that is taking place in the Pannini Room. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.47 p.m. and resumed at 8.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u120	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of two members of the Board of Directors of RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana SpA: [[Senators present 259 Senators voting 259]] They got votes: [[Igor De Biasio 102 Alessandro Di Majo 78 Giampaolo Rossi 20 Dispensi 12 Scheda bianche 13 Scheda nulle 34]] Igor De Biasio and Alessandro Di Majo, to whom I wish you all the best. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u121	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-346.ana.u122	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 15 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.09 p.m.
