ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00373 by Senators Licheri, Malpezzi, De Petris and other Senators, 1-00374 by Senators Romeo, Bernini, Ciriani and other Senators, and 1-00375 by Senator Cucca and other Senators, on the vitalities. I call Senator Licheri to explain motion No 373.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u5	Mr President, we believe that today is a special day, I would say a historic moment. In fact, you think that before today there had never been a debate about vitality in a Senate Chamber. It is a curious fact: rivers of words and ink have been spent on vitality, but Parliament had never spoken about it publicly; there had never been a public discussion of vitality, although this was one of the hottest issues outside this building. We are happy that today you are presiding, President Taverna, even if this is a goal, a victory that is not and must not be of the Movimento 5 Stars. It is a result of everyone's work. Of course, on the subject of social justice, fairness, the defence of the weakest we have always been and will always be the most intransigent, but today we bring this motion to the attention of the Assembly, together with the friends of the PD and LEU, to finally begin that process - hopefully - of cultural recovery, ethical, ethical, behavioral so necessary to the country. Someone said that we are justiceists because we do this. Instead, we simply try to call the ruling classes to respect those rules that citizens are also obliged to respect. Ours is not justiceism. We believe that the parties should not wait for the judiciary to get the rotten apples out of politics. We believe that whoever administers or administers the public thing and is investigated for corruption has no right to vitality. Mr President, that is the point: the vitality must not be perceived; the vitality must be deserved. [[Applause]] And not because the 5 Star Movement says so, but because Article 54 of the Constitution states that all citizens must behave according to the rules of respect and observance of the laws. Discipline and honor for those who have managed the public thing are not temporal; there must be discipline and honor in a parliamentarians even when they become a former parliamentarians, because this may be the function of vitality. Lawlessness can only be fought by promoting the degree of civil maturity of citizens. The example, however, Senators and Senators, must start from here, because at this moment we are the representatives of the nation. We do not interpret today's debate as a flag to be put, for the benefit of one or the other, because it is simply a battle of civilization, to protect the prestige and credibility of the institutions. With the motion tabled together with friends of the PD and LEU we will ask the senators and senators for more pensions and less vitality. [[Applause]] We will ask that the principles of the Severino law apply to the vitality, a compulsory passage for that ethical supplement. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. We will ask that the difference between a pension and a vitality be restored soon, because there is no Italian worker who can receive a pension, after having matured four years, six months and one day: this is not correct. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u6	Motion No 374 is set out. I call Senator Cucca to explain motion No 375.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u7	Mr President, I will be very brief, but I believe that this very sensitive matter, which is engaging many of our colleagues and is also covering the pages of the newspapers, deserves some clarification and some clarification. In the meantime, I must point out that there has never been a debate in this House on the issue of vitality, simply because the issue of vitality is the responsibility of the Presidency Council and it certainly cannot be said that this body has not dealt with this issue in all these years. I would also like to point out that there is no problem of justiceism, if anyone goes further, stands further behind or maintains different positions. It is not a problem of justiceism, but it is simply a problem of compliance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. In this respect, I would remind you that the whole matter originates from a well-known fact, following a decision of the Guarantee Council. Of course we can agree or not on what the Guarantee Council has decided, but we must always keep in mind, because that is a certain fact, that the Guarantee Council is a court, which issues judgments, which are exactly the same as judgments delivered by a court or, in this case, by an ordinary court of appeal. Discussing them, in this sense, seems very inappropriate to me, because it is as if we were trying to put them into thin air. We can of course discuss whether we agree or not: any kind of discussion is open. However, we cannot try to put a judicial decision into nothing: I want to reiterate it, because it is an important issue. We must continue to have as a lighthouse, as a path, as an indication in our activity of the content of the Constitution, that we cannot throw at the nettles. The so-called self-declaration is foreseen and, as long as it exists, these bodies must be autonomous and must be able to function properly, as required by the Constitution. If then our House and the other branch of Parliament decide that we no longer agree, then we abolish self-declaration and send everything to the ordinary courts. As long as the autodicia exists, we can't just throw it at the nettles. Today we are discussing this issue, which we believe is extremely important. The motion that we have tabled has only one objective, which is not to discuss or annul past court decisions in court, because we cannot do so. I believe that the time has obviously come to take this matter into account and, as it is written in the motion for a resolution, to address once and for all the problem in the competent bodies by regulating those cases - which will be clearly identified and indicated - in which it is necessary to revise or revoke the vitality of those senators who have ceased their mandate and who have been definitively sentenced for particularly serious crimes. This is the content of our motion, without going any further; unless we call into question, as I said, the institute of self-dedication, which I personally - and I believe I also interpret the thinking of my colleagues in the Group - as long as it exists, and always respecting the Constitution, I am obliged to consider looking at what is happening in this House and the bodies that are elected to decide. Indeed, as has already been pointed out, the Commission and the Guarantee Council are courts with all the powers of a court and an appeal court, so we are certainly not in a position to question or cancel them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u8	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u9	Mr President, when I heard that a parliamentary group was calling for a debate on vitality to be scheduled, I was grounded, because there is still a board chamber in place that must decide on the famous appeal of the administration against the judgment of first instance that annulled the famous resolution of 2018. But then I read the motions, which basically talk about the vitality of the condemned, and I was pleased that this debate opened, at least to bring out of these classrooms to citizens correct information about what is happening. I hope that the media that follow this issue can properly convey the debate that is going to develop in this House today. Mr President, there is no mention here of the difference between those who defend the condemned and those who want the gallows. Here there is simply a body of internal justice which, as has been said, has judicial functions and which in its proceedings must apply the law; it must not only apply ordinary law and internal law, but must conform it to constitutional principles, because self-declaration has excluded the possibility for the Member or former Member of Parliament to address the Constitutional Court. It is therefore the self-declaration bodies which, in the performance of their duties, must verify whether the rule under appeal also complies with the Constitution. What happened? We can talk about it, because the reasons have been filed. The headlines of the newspapers that hold the veil: during the night the lives of the condemned were restored; the Guarantee Council overturned the decision of the Presidency Council. But that decision of the Presidency Council was unconstitutional, because it violates, President Licheri, not only Article 54, but also Article 3 of the Constitution, according to which all citizens are equal before the law. You must know - if you do not know - that in the exercise of our function we have photographed the legal, constitutional and ordinary framework, and we have started from Article 28 of the Criminal Code, which establishes the suspension of any form of assistance, vitality and salary for the condemned who have had the ban from public offices: this is the case of Senator Formigoni. However, Article 28 of the Penal Code, President Licheri, has been exceeded by two judgments of the Constitutional Court, namely No 3 of 1966 and No 78 of 1967, according to which it is not enough simply to condemn or ban public offices to lose a vitality, a pension, a cheque, a salary, but one must look at the seriousness of the fact, the protection of dignity and respect for human rights and the dignity of the person. In this regard, the ordinary legislator approved Act No. 424 of 1966. In addition, dear President Licheri, Article 18 -bis of Decree-Law No. 4 of 2019 - even though your commentators on television say that they have only spoken about the income of citizenship - provides that those sentenced to imprisonment with a judgment passed in court for serious crimes will be suspended the pension. This law, President Licheri, I did not vote for it. I voted against it, you voted for it. [[Applause]] However, in accordance with my judicial function, I had to take this into account. So, ma'am, let's close the game. If you read the sentence, we said exactly what you asked: we said that a Member of Parliament or a former Member of Parliament must be asked for a higher degree of good repute than the citizen, and if this Member or former Member of Parliament has been wrong he must be sanctioned; the sanction must be established by the Presidency Council, but in establishing the penalty he must take into account the seriousness of the crime and respect for life and human dignity (because we are a civil body, we are not barbarians). Then I want to denounce the hypocrisy of this Parliament: since you are all in agreement, make an ordinary law and assume responsibility. [[Applause]] And allow parliamentarians and former parliamentarians to go before the Constitutional Court, so we remove the disturbance in the self-declaration bodies and get back to ordinary justice. This is also an example of equality between citizens and parliamentarians. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u10	Senator Perilli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u11	Mr President, our group leader, Senator Licheri, has just pointed out that, thanks to the 5 Star Movement, fortunately a debate on vitality arrives in this House - and for the first time - but a debate which, as the House notes, many political forces have escaped. This basically denotes a very concrete fact, which is also lived outside. There are great proclamations, Mr President, about the need for citizens to receive support and help, and during this difficult period there have been calls for some renunciations in relation to the life that had been conducted up to that time according to certain parameters. I mean, everything's been revolutionized. Italy clutches its teeth, people look at us and the example that the Senate gives at this juncture is of absence or misrepresentation of reality. [[Applause]] In view of the time I have, President, I shall proceed by points. In his speech, which I have followed, the law is mentioned, the great constitutional principles are mentioned, but a fundamental fact is neglected. The history of vitality is simple: already in the fifties Parliament, giving itself its own rules in the name of self-dichia and distorting this principle, which claims the separation of powers, has given itself privileges, salaries and vitality outside the normal, out of the context that people live. In 2018 comes the Movimento 5 Stars and says that, instead, as for other people, the principle of the contributory and non-wage system is valid. It is the great revolution that we have brought to this House and that will be subverted in the name of restoration in days (including this one). We are talking about the law, but is it right that, after a few days of parliamentary term, a senator or a Member, with an integration, can benefit from the vitality? Does it seem normal to you that those who attribute these vitalities then do so in the most absurd way, precisely in the name of this privilege? And then, not content with what the Severino law lays down, which in other cases provides for incandidability and ineligibility, now provides that even those who have been sentenced for corruption or serious crimes must be paid their vitality. This is crazy! [[Applause]] You're talking about something that's on Mars. People look at this debate with concern. [[Applause]] But do you really want to support this? Do you really want to argue that those who have obtained the vitality after two days of parliamentary term and have been convicted of serious crimes must continue to perceive it? Do you really think that, even now, there must be the pay system and not the contributory system? Do you really want to proceed, at this juncture, along this line? This is crazy. This is not only about the goodness and dignity required by Article 54 of the Constitution, but also about the thread with the country. With what courage do you continue to say that you give support when you self-attribute salaries of thousands and thousands of euros and vitality? [[Applause]] Do as the Movimento 5 Stars: reduce your allowances and give up all that is privilege, which surpasses the speech that is very heard out of here. It is a debate which can also be heard for the reasons that are being put forward, but which is surreal. Every piece, every word you add to this disgrace and shame becomes an even stronger insult out of here. [[Applause]] It is also surreal that I have to explain why this is insane. You're disguised as crazy political decisions. In these internal tribunals, where the 5 Star Movement is no longer represented after the passage of some of its members to other political forces, there is a restoration that you are doing with the favor of the carelessness or fatigue of the people who are taken by other problems. And this is even more serious. I would like to know why, for example, nothing is said by Lega and Forza Italia, who have always shouted in this House in favour of workers, people in difficulty and those who do not arrive at the end of the month. Salvini has filled us with words about this and now says nothing about the fact that the members of the Council belonging to his Group have restored the vitality to a corrupt. [[Applause]] I repeat, he doesn't say a word. However, you do not take advantage of it, nor do you manage with silence. This fact will mark a great difference between those who tried to prevent it and those who, instead, shout in the squares one thing, but then favor in silence the attribution of privileges. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u12	The debate is closed. The government representative does not intend to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u15	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting in favour of the motion that we have tabled. I believe that in this situation it would be useful to have a somewhat broader debate, reviewing the work of the constituent Assembly. A reading of the preparatory work that led the Constituents to introduce the rules governing the matter under consideration would probably help us to understand its real meaning and object, out of the populist declarations and the desire to demagogy and show the people that they think of it in a certain way (then, that sometimes it preaches well and is rocketed badly). As I said earlier, as long as self-declaration exists, we have a duty to respect the organs it is responsible for. The work of the self-declaration bodies, as happened last week, is also disputed when voting on the decisions taken by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, from which the fact that it is sometimes well preached and badly scrambled has become apparent. I must say, however, that this is quite different from the self-declaration bodies of the Guarantee Council and the Commission, which are actually courts which decide in a judgment equal to that of the Court of Appeal. Among other things, it would also be appropriate, and that is why this commitment is provided for in our motion, to discuss it in the relevant forums of this matter, otherwise we change the Regulations, because I also consider it appropriate that a case-by-case assessment should be made. In fact, I have an objective difficulty in thinking that we can deprive a person who lives in conditions of total poverty in a system in which a convicted person for serious crimes, such as murder or any other crime, continues peacefully to enjoy his or her pension, his or her emoluments in order to survive. This is more in a system that has introduced institutions that are at least strange, if it is true as it is true (the news is full of examples), which sometimes condemned for very serious facts have enjoyed the income of citizenship. Then there are some problems, something that obviously doesn't work in the system. [[Applause]] And we have to take it in our hands. Let us discuss this, let us try to see how this matter must be regulated once and for all. Let us try, because indeed the issue has now been raised, with a wave of populism that I frankly do not agree with, because in my opinion we are here to do concrete things, adapted to the system in which we live; we can adapt them to the times we live, then we talk about it in the seats of Parliament. Above all, I insist that if we have to change, we do not contest what is provided for in the Constitution; we may change the rules and regulations. If you think in a certain way and the majority requested by Parliament thinks so, it may change the Constitution, but as long as the rules are the current ones, we have the duty, indeed the obligation, to respect them because, as I have said in many circumstances, the Constitution comes first for me, then everything else. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u18	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of vitality is certainly very sensitive and I find it unusual that we should discuss in this House a decision of the Guarantee Council which, as other Members have already mentioned, is a judicial body. However, since Senator Vitali and others have entered into the matter, you also allow me to do so, even though I am a member of the Guarantee Council, so perhaps you will forgive me for inelegantly entering into the substance of a decision that I have helped to form, although I did not agree with the conclusions reached with that judgment. In fact, President Vitali made references that, according to my very modest opinion not only as a politician but also as a modest scholar of law, do not convince me, because the reference to the decisions of the Constitutional Court No. 3 of 1966 and No. 78 of 1967 do not resolve the issue, because both refer to pensions deriving from the employment relationship, as well as to Law No. 424 of 1966: the reference is always and in any case to the employment relationship. So, ladies and gentlemen, is there anyone in this House who in good faith can believe that we have a working relationship with the Senate of the Republic? Are we on paycheck? Do we have a salary? Do we have a salary? Or don't we rather have an allowance, which is a whole other thing? These judgments of the Constitutional Court, therefore, are not lecturers, indeed they show that Article 28 of the Criminal Code is perfectly applicable to those who have been subjected to perpetual prohibition from public offices for very serious crimes, because this ancillary penalty - as can be seen from the reading of the penal code, which I invite you to read - is imposed in very serious cases, but certainly not for a bagatellar offence. It is for this reason that, in my humble opinion, Mr President, the resolution of the Senate Presidency Council No 57 of 2015 was and remains legitimate. I respect the vote of my colleagues who, in the Guarantee Council, considered it illegal, but, in my opinion, the reference to Article 18-a of Law No 4 of 2019, to which Senator Vitali referred earlier, is not relevant: as you can see by reading it, it concerns the suspension of the pension for those who voluntarily evade the execution of the sentence and limited to that period; it has nothing to do with the issue we are dealing with and even less has to do with the subject Article 2, paragraph 58 of Law No 92 of 2012, because it concerns, only in the case of serious crimes, the unemployment allowance, the social allowance, the social pension and the invalidity pension. I don't think we're even talking about retirement. It is not important here, ladies and gentlemen, not even the question of whether or not the vitality has, in whole or in part, also - as the Constitutional Court says - a social security function. This is not the issue, because private insurance can also have a social security function. The issue is whether the vitality is based on an employment relationship or not, so either we vote in this House in support of the assumption that we are employees of the Senate, or Resolution 57 should be confirmed and not cancelled, dear President Vitali. That is why we shall be voting in favour of all three motions that have been tabled today. We will vote in favour of No 373, at the first signature of Senator Licheri, because we are convinced of the reference to the principles contained today in the legislation on incandidability, because those who cannot run can claim to have a right to vitality, this principle seems to me to be elementary. We will also vote in favour of the other two motions, No 375, at the first signature of Senator Cucca, and of course No 374, signed by us, because of course where the least stands. In fact, here we are not discussing the vitality in general, but if those who fail the commitment of honour which they have assumed towards the Italian people and the institutions to carry out their function with honor and discipline are still entitled to receive compensation, after betraying that commitment. Vitality is a form of deferred allowance, precisely in order to guarantee the independence and freedom of the Member, who must not have economic concerns. A Member of Parliament takes reasonable, more than reasonable, compensation. He has funds at his disposal, offices, services; he has an economic tranquillity, because he knows that at the end of his mandate he will be able to obtain vitality. He has no reason and no reason to violate the law for private personal interest, his friends or his acquaintances, or even the party. [[Applause]] There is no justification for those who betray a commitment of honor such as that which we have all undertaken, because of the Constitution on which we have all sworn. So here we are not talking about the vitality in general, but we are talking about the vitality of those who betrayed this commitment. We are convinced that we must go in the direction of making a new resolution that respects these principles; in this sense, we are here and we stand to the end. Allow me, Mr President, just one last point. Of course, Mr Cucca, self-dedication is a constitutional prerogative of the constitutional bodies; I think it is profoundly wrong, however, for them to be a senator, when they have to judge on issues concerning the senators. In the Commission we have at least two experts, while in the Guarantee Council we are five senators. Dear President, I believe that when we judge issues and rights that concern senators, we should find a solution for which they are not senators, but experts in law, Presidents emeritus or former judges of the Constitutional Court or of the highest courts, because only in this way will we be able to regain credibility on a decision like the one we are discussing. A judgment that has not only disapplyed, but has even annulled Resolution 57, certainly does not help to create that credibility in the public opinion that the institutions need so much today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u21	Mr Rossomando (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us say that, not deliberately, but occasionally, today's debate is linked to the long debate we have had on the subject of parliamentary prerogatives, both yesterday and on previous days. Rightly, we are discussing the goodness, authority and dignity of Parliament. I would like to make one premise: today in all three motions - but I am speaking of course for the one signed and promoted by my Group - we start from the premise that there is a self-declaration regime and that therefore we note that there is a regulatory vacuum, resulting from a pronunciation that has decided not only on the specific case, but that it has Erga omnes effectiveness. We note this, we know that there is a legal vacuum and we believe that Parliament, in the appropriate fora (which can be both the Presidency Council and a legislative seat, because on this the Council of State has been very clear, although obviously the consequences are different, as has already been said), has a duty to propose a decision which may take into account, at reading, the reasons that we have already seen and which we will reread. The first question, therefore, is that we fully respect Parliament's self-dedication, but also our role, to which we cannot, of course, fail. Now, there are two terms that we must always keep very much in mind. I am referring to the freedoms and prerogatives of Members of Parliament, who are functional and - I should like to say - at the service of republican democracy, in the sense of public servant. If we do not think and we do not know that it is precisely for this reason that we have prerogatives and not privileges, we do not give a right address and above all, since we always talk about what is here and what is out of here, we have no title to talk to those who are out of here and of whom incidentally we are the representatives, and it is not that we have been designated. [[Applause]] We are the representatives of the citizens, because we are in a democracy - alive god - still representative, I would like to stress that. This is the picture we're moving in. There has been a great deal of discussion about the nature of these vitalities, when the resolution was approved, today annulled by the self-declaration sentences. Let us now give peace: it is peaceful that it is a mixed nature, that cannot be assimilated to an employment relationship and that it also has a social security nature. Constitutionalists have practiced a lot and the acts are all consultable. The point - which has rightly been mentioned by my colleague Mr Balboni - is that it is not an employment relationship, as confirmed by copious legislation and jurisprudence. I would like to say one thing, however: it is not a job, but something much more, I stress. That is why we refer to Article 54, according to which, that is, we must fulfil a function that is even more and different from that of those who are dependent on a public administration, so it has particular duties and is also the recipient of particular criminal rules. We all know that those who exercise a public exercise, are public employees and have a public function are the recipients of special rules. It is something much more: but then something much more we want to frame it in an overall discourse that is always worth and anyway? Are we going to say that we are here in a representative democracy to represent a very high function? It is only for this reason that we have prerogatives, in defence of Parliament's freedom, because it is no coincidence that the Constitution was born on the way out of fascism, when there were special courts and those who were dissident were put in prison. The prerogative was born exactly with that type of function and in that sense, also in the relationship with the judicial order. In fact, there were special courts and they ended up in prison at the confinum for their ideas. That was the concern and not others. If it is something more and if we have to stay within the Constitution, which is often recalled in the constitutional architecture and is not simply an elegant and fascinating image, let's ask ourselves what constitutional architecture is: a set of standards of higher rank, very high, that put us in a continuous situation of finding a balance between constitutionally protected goods. There is article 54, but there is article 2 in open form, which reads: The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in social formations. I believe that we already have a direction, from this point of view, when we then have to reformulate or rethink legislation, in the fora we will consider (it could be the Presidency Council, which is a legislative seat). Surely we can and must intervene - I believe - given the nature of our function and the role we play, if there are final sentences passed in court, not only for particularly serious crimes, but also that they mark a break in the pact signed by those who exercise this role, this function and represents the institutions. [[Applause]] This is the sole reason, of course identifying particularly serious cases. I have seen a lot of emphasis - and I understand that - on the terms 'honor' and 'betrayal'. I would like to add one, with which we are also very well, the Republican patriotism, in the name of which we are talking, and that is where we refer to the Constitution, its freedoms and its framework. From this point of view, therefore, the legislation will have to be rewritten, also taking into account those particular cases where there are humanitarian issues, particular health conditions or anything else, but this is not the place to establish it. What I would like to draw everyone's attention to instead is that, when we say that in the name of republican patriotism we must anticipate a decline from that kind of parliamentary allowance, which has that nature, I would like to remind us all that it is not a matter of talking to the outsiders so much: in fact, we also begin to strip ourselves of some images. It is not that there is a closed palace here and outside a pulsating people, because, as we say this, we are demeaning our function. [[Applause]] It is precisely in the name of this function that we say that Article 54 is valid: we say that precisely because we believe that it is a high function, that it has its reason in the fact that we represent the citizens. If so, then we should have - this is my hope - at least a common heritage, which so far has not existed, in saying that it is in the name of all these principles that we think there is a resolution inspired by the question of incandidability and everything else; it is in the name of the important things we do at the service of the citizens that we think that we should do that; it is in the name of consistency with all the principles established in the Constitution that we are entitled to act in that sense. Therefore, when we talk about prerogatives, we are not talking about free hands for everyone, but about prerogatives to defend democracy. We are here in the service of liberal democracy, that indent which should never be forgotten. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u24	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the issue of the vitalities on which, at first, a resolution of the 2015 Presidency Council took place, which provided for the cessation of the provision of life for former sentenced persons permanently for serious crimes, and then subsequent and conflicting decisions of the Senate's autodichia bodies, until the recent decision of the Guarantee Council, which essentially annulled this decision from the point of view of the violation of the principle of equality, as referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution, in relation to the legislation on citizenship income. The parliamentary mandate, being of an elective nature, is in no way comparable to an employment relationship. Parliamentary compensation cannot therefore be classified as remuneration, so much so that it is received for the sole reason that it is held in office, even if the Member abstains from any parliamentary activity, and serves to ensure the independence of the function. Therefore, the vitality, as a projection of the allowance, cannot in any way have the character of deferred pay. The jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and the Court of Cassation, as well as the doctrine, have evidenced the complex and articulated nature of the vitality allowance due to parliamentarians who ceased their mandate, which represents a specific and particular unicum not attributable to the social security treatment, not being able to have any importance even the discretionary change of the mere nomen iuris by the Chambers, who have recently changed the original name of "vitalice" into "pension," without however having changed its legal nature. Moreover, there is no legal reservation in the matter of vitality similar to that provided for in Article 69 of the Constitution, according to which each Member of Parliament is entitled to an allowance established by law, since the Constitution does not mention the vitalitys, there is therefore no intangible right of the Member of Parliament to the vitality. This is a right constituted by the Presidency Council, which can legitimately exclude it or limit it in specific cases for the fall of requirements and conditions which the Presidency Council itself can lay down. In the same way, self-dedication bodies could not compare, for the purpose of the affirmation of the principle of equality, the norm on the vitality of senators with the discipline provided for in cases of conviction for serious crimes by the rules on citizenship income, which are functional to supplement family income while waiting to find a job and to combat poverty and inequalities. The issue of vitality has always been regulated by the Parliamentary Regulations, which have created the vitality completely discreetly and no one can therefore call into question that it remains a prerogative of the Councils of Presidents of the Chambers to modify this matter which they themselves, with creative work, have constituted. Moreover, a general principle of law is valid, as well as of reasonableness, according to which only the body producing a rule can amend it. The Litigation Commission and the Guarantee Council are comparable, respectively, to courts such as the Court and the Court of Appeal, in a system in which the regulations of Palazzo Madama are even higher, which can be placed between ordinary law and constitutional law. The resolution of the Council of Presidency, therefore, has the same value as an order law, as a law, only that, instead of simply deciding on the case submitted to its judgment, the court of the Senate has annulled the resolution erga omnes, which can only do an opposite decision of revocation by the same body that issued it. Self-declaration cannot go as far as allowing a court such as the Commission or the Guarantee Council to annul a decision of the Presidency Council. It's like a judge decides to repeal a law. All the more he could have decided on the specific case by interpreting the decision constitutionally oriented or suspending the decision pending a new decision by the Bureau. Moreover, in order to justify the decision at first instance, the law on citizenship income was used, with a substantial and recognized equivalence of the decision of a Senate body - be careful - adopted by a single Chamber, to a bicameral law of the State, stating that Article 3 of the Constitution on the equality of citizens was not respected. So I ask myself: can an internal body in the Senate declare the unconstitutionality of a rule or repeal it completely? (at 10.30 a.m.) (Following Grasso). All the reasons contrary to the 2015 decision may be invoked, but the reference made to two orders of the Court of Cassation to United Sections does not appear to be consistent at all. If you go to read, there too is recognized the special character of the parliamentary allowance, from which comes, as a projection, the vitality. In 2019, however, there were decisions of the Commission itself chaired by Mr Caliendo, mentioned in the judgment, who were in favour of maintaining the resolution. I have not been able to understand why we have deviated from those decisions. I repeat, however, that a single senator submitted the application and that decision should have been valid only for him. Let us consider, however, also the consequences: completely abolishing the 2015 resolution, once again opening the doors of vitality to the sentenced senators not only for corruption, but also for mafia and terrorism. I really hope it's not a desired effect, but just a distraction. For all these reasons, I consider the decision of the Guarantee Council to be deeply wrong from a procedural, substantive and political point of view, and I believe that the House, by means of this motion, can, as a politically sovereign body, induce the Bureau to take appropriate action to reaffirm its decision-making prerogatives definitively. From a political point of view, moreover, at a time when many Italians are in difficulty, this decision involves one of the issues that undermine the confidence of our political system, that identify democratic representations as caste and that further alienate Parliament from the citizens, and it does so dramatically, just at a time when, instead, we should prove the exact opposite. The final condemnation for certain serious crimes is a mere objective assumption that determines such an intense importance on the level of the judgment of moral unworthyness of the subject to demand the cessation of the elective office. This conclusion is all the more true if there is not a right to the passive electorate, but a life benefit. The constitutional foundation is in Article 48 of the Constitution. The right to vote, active and passive, for more reason, cannot be limited except by civil inability or by the effect of irrevocable criminal judgment or in cases of moral unworthiness indicated by law. And again, Rule 54 reads: The citizens to whom public functions are entrusted have the duty to fulfil them with discipline and honor, taking an oath in the cases laid down by law. In conclusion, I declare the favorable vote of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal members of the Mixed Group on motion No 373, tabled by Senators Licheri, De Petris, Grasso and others who commit the Bureau to adopt the appropriate determinations, aimed at regulating the cases of revocation of the vitalities of the senators ceased from the mandate definitively condemned for crimes of particular gravity, taking into account the principles proper to the legislation in force in the matter of incandidability, expression of the more general category of ineligibility provided for in Article 65 of the Constitution, rigorously assessing the behaviors that appear incompatible with that moral integrity that we strive daily to interpret in our function and that the country asks loudly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u27	CRAXI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the autonomy of politics and its leading role in society, of its not being subordinate to different powers and not subject to democratic control, is an issue that we should be very interested in, and not resort to the need, perhaps in interviews, television statements, talk shows and meetings, to evoke strong and dark powers that affect the public life and the strategic choices of the country. Some of you may wonder what this has to do with vitality. It's got to do with it. The politics of the last twenty years and the parliamentarians of this last glimpse of republican life have genesis and political stories very different from those of the past. Throughout the first Republic, politics was a mission that characterized exclusively the existence of the life of a person, to whom everything was subordinate, including the professions and the same family life. Over time, this path has changed; parliamentary activity has often been accompanied by others and is no longer an obstacle to the profession. This, in my opinion, is certainly the result of a change of vision in which politics, alas, is no longer central - a circumstance that does not play in favor of its autonomy and its primacy - but is also the result of the Jacobine horde and the prevailing moralism that for over twenty years have fallen on the civil and democratic life of the country. Thus Parliament and Parliament are at the mercy of everything, delegitimized by the anti-political and increasingly private vulgates not only of the role of direction, but of the same legislative function. This is the result of a long season of demonization of representative democracy, in which we replaced those who lived for politics with improvisation and amateurism and with some who, yes, without art or part, live today only of politics and use it for careers and personal destinies. Moreover, the loss of competitiveness, prestige and international role experienced by Italy in recent years is before everyone's eyes. It is a result of the rhetoric against the so-called caste and anti-politics that sees the Member and the Senator as an objective to delegitimize, with arguments ranging from salaries to the much hated vitality. A premise: not to grasp the different nature of the pension and the vitality of the parliamentarians - explained also in a decision of the Constitutional Court - already says everything of those who scream and scream. It is the Constitution that wanted to guarantee the exercise of the parliamentary function maximum freedom from conditioning, even those of an economic nature. Who violates the Constitution? Those who for years have chanted to the untouchability of the most beautiful Constitution in the world. I am sorry, then, to contradict the prevailing rhetoric: Members cannot in any way be equated with anything, because they have a function that cannot be compared to any other function; to develop them will not make them better and will not increase their productivity, quality and representativeness. Of course, I realize that this reflection will not be popular, but if we do not reverse the reasoning going beyond the conveniences of the moment, we will definitely destroy what remains of our democratic system and its institutions. But what was the institution of vitality, if not a choice to put the politician in conditions of independence, freedom and autonomy? Attention, not only independence and autonomy from strong powers, but from work and blackmail not to have or find one, which constitutes an intrinsic form of subalternity. There is no freedom, if you live in a condition of need. It was a form of guarantee of an Italy that is no longer there, that perhaps it is right in part to review and overcome. Indeed, the legislative interventions of these years, even rightly, have revised the issue of vitality. This was done with the mini-reform of 1997, then in 2007 and again in 2012: we have passed, albeit with the twists of retroactive applications, from a remuneration method to a contributory one. Now someone - perhaps just the politicians, those who live in politics and not in politics, as Weber said or those who may not have worked a single day and vote for any measure to avoid going to the polls and leaving, therefore, the much cowardly chair - would also want to abolish it. Of course, we can of course discuss what is the appropriate measure of compensation and vitality that best guarantees the freedom to exercise the mandate, but I consider it offensive, because of the dignity of this institution, that words such as "thieves" are used that misappropriate public resources, "scum" or "shame" are used. These are unworthy words of the citizens we represent and of the institutional office we hold, which even in the use of language has the duty of example. I say no to drifting and barbarism, as I say to the bitterness and the lifting of the vitality of elderly or sick people, who had made a life forecast for their old age on a basis that cannot be distorted, just as I defend the resolution of this branch of Parliament to bring back the vitality, for reasons of health or subsistence, to some of its former members. We need seriousness: enough with the demagogy a lot per kilo and with the moralists who have often turned out to be moralists of my boots. [[Applause]] Also because, ladies and gentlemen, the last year has changed the popular paradigm, with the emergency that has shown the need for a strong policy, capable of deciding, governing and planning the future. That is why, by supporting the efforts made by the Senate Presidency, which, with its latest decisions, has put a stop to some gnawing stunts, the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, will vote in favour of this motion. We do this not in the name of some technicalism or legal expedient, but of politics, the sacredness of republican institutions and the need for legitimacy of its representatives yesterday, today and tomorrow, knowing that the best, as Voltaire said, is often the enemy of good. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask colleagues to drastically lower the volume of their voices. [[Applause]] Please, Senator Craxi. CRAXI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the subject remains open and we do not miss it, but those who have a culture of government, know how to live the institutions and believe in democracy and its principals know well that every step, however small, is always to be considered as a conquest. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u30	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since I am not a long-term Member of Parliament, but for me this is the first parliamentary term, I wonder why on such a sensitive and difficult subject, which has rightly had no great attention on the part of the public, it has never, even in the past legislatures, wanted to adopt a law that would regulate it once and for all. [[Applause.]] That is the real reason why I am very clear that so everyone could have shown their positions and would have arrived at a perhaps linear solution, even if, of course, there was the problem of the Constitutional Court. I say this from a personal experience, because in the Lombardy Region, when we had to cut the vitality, we had meetings with all the parties and we found a rule that was inspired by the criteria put in place by the Constitutional Court, that is the reasonableness and, on the other hand, the reference to a certain period of time, clearly with the possibility of repeating the measure if necessary. Thus the law has been voted by the overwhelming majority of all political forces and all appeals have stood before the Constitutional Court, because, if you approve a rule inspired by the principle of reasonableness and common sense, nothing must be feared with reference to the Constitutional Court. We do not understand - at least I do not understand it, then someone will explain it to me - why we have always wanted to use the other possibility to regulate this subject, that is to say the so-called internal regulations, which inevitably lend themselves to appeals, on which then the senator intervenes, which must judge on issues related to the senators themselves. I say this by respecting the autonomy of the Presidency Council, the Commission and the Guarantee Council. That is what I said to Mr Fraccaro - and I say this very clearly - when we began the adventure with the 5 Star Government. I said to him: "Look that the way of the law is the best, because it allows us to deal definitively with the theme". I was told that instead the choice was to go to the Presidency Council, refer to the Rules of Procedure and then follow other paths. That is why Parliament has never had the courage to deal with this issue by means of a state law, and I sincerely say this, with a totally aseptic attitude on the issue and regardless of the various positions. [[Applause]] If we wanted to regain political credibility, we would have to sit around a table and settle this once and for all, rather than having problems every year or every two or three years. I repeat, I am saying this beyond the individual positions and I am not going into the matter: my general point is that I am putting it to the attention of the whole House, because we are always in time to make a law; it is not that we cannot do it. Let me turn to the question of the sentence. I do not go into the substance of the decisions taken by both the Commission and the Guarantee Council; I am not even an expert on the matter to be able to determine whether the reference to the Constitutional Court's judgment is correct which equates the vitality to pensions and the reference to the ordinary law on pension and citizenship income. I don't go into the matter, and I don't know if it's right or not. I respect that decision; I may not share it, but respect it for precisely reasons of respect for the institution and its autonomy. I say, however, that there is something that sounds in general, regardless of whether it can be equated or not. A citizen who is finally condemned for terrorism or mafia cannot be affected or suspended by the pension or the income of citizenship; but if there is a condemned politician, he must be removed. [[Applause]] There's something wrong. Look... [[Brusio.]] I let you talk. Let me express my opinion, which you may not share. In fact, I was saying - and I am sorry that you are angry - that even several times I have publicly recognized even at Movimento 5 Stars that work of dying politics in the path that has been made. I recognized him: I recognized him when we were in the government together, I recognized him when we were on opposite fronts with the Counte-bis Government and I still recognize him. You started with an initiative many years ago - I remember it - called 'zero privileges', according to which Members should not have privileges. It is right and I agree with the principle. However, if it is true that Members should not have any privileges in the field of social security, it is also right on the other hand that they have the right not to be penalised on the same subject. [[Applause]] It is simply a matter of putting everyone on the same footing. Moreover, that resolution - I do not remember exactly now and I apologize if I am not precise in this - which has transformed the vitality from the pay system - which was honestly incorrect - to the contributory system goes precisely in that direction: in this matter we equal Italian citizens to parliamentarians, putting everyone on the same level. It is only a question of starting from this assumption. So, regardless of the judgment, we have a motion that asks to reason on this principle and we absolutely agree in working in this direction, provided that we do not always pass the politician as the one that basically has to be mocked, that is not good, that does not work, that deserves to be humored. That's not fair. Let us all put ourselves on the same footing: we sincerely believe it in this way. Also because the wrong thing - it is the story that teaches us - is always to go from one extreme to the other: before the parliamentarians were too privileged, while now we want to make them pass as if they were not even citizens of the B series but, worse still, as if they were all thieves and delinquents. No, the truth is in the middle: we recover the right means, the one that historically ennobled politics in this country. Only in this way will we be able to do something clear, that can no longer be called into question and that will finally give transparency and clarity on this issue. For this reason we have tabled a motion; we will not vote against the other motions, but we will abstain or vote in favour, depending on the situation, because we respect absolutely all positions (there would be no more, also because our motion is almost identical, essentially, to that of Italy Viva and that of PD, 5 Stars and LEU: they are almost all identical). We have discussed, we have held meetings, we have discussed the method and the issues, but please: let us all find the right and the right instrument to regulate, once and for all, this matter. Then we would make a good figure in front of the citizens and regain that necessary credibility, as a political class, that the country needs. In fact, if politics is strong, then there are no technicians, experts, scientists, but there is politics, which assumes its responsibilities and decides to the full. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u33	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, I had, of course, prepared a speech, but the speeches in this House have been a reflection, so I would like to start with the speech by Senator Romeo, who is asking why a law has not been made. Senator Romeo, if it were for you, today would not have had the debate in this House either. [[Applause]] You are well aware that we have had to fight for two weeks in order to have a comparison in this House, which today, on the basis of the speeches made, seems absolutely constructive. It was a necessary comparison, since a rule regulating the management of the vitality or, better, the revocation of the vitalities for the condemned in a definitive way before there was; then there was a ruling that, going beyond the petitum, abolished it and this led the Movimento 5 Stars to present itself at the Conference of the Leaders in order to signal a normative void and the necessity to put back hand to what was happening. The first reaction was to accuse us of wanting to wage a political battle, of wanting to pin the medal on us, of wanting to bring this subject again, which has been abused, to the public's attention. I must say that my first reaction was that of shame for those who thought that the lifting of the vitalities was exclusively a political battle of the Movimento 5 Stars: it is a battle of dignity! [[Applause]] Dignity for the Italian people, Senator Romeo! [[Applause]] It is precisely for this battle of dignity of the Italian people that the Movimento 5 Stars is born; it is born for the fight against privileges and caste. It seems to me that, at the same time as we have been excluded from some boxes of this one which - it is true - is not a can of tuna, it is an anti-atomic bunker, which in order to be able to undo it is not enough eight years, perhaps not enough twenty; I said, as we were excluded from some boxes (the Commission and the Guarantee Council), thanks to the betrayal of our colleagues [[Applause]] , elected thanks to the trust received from citizens on a program that was basically based on the fight against caste and the cut to vitality, miraculously, with a stroke of hand, we saw the restoration of the vitality to the condemned. Today I had the pleasure of reading the motion tabled by Lega and Forza Italia; it is a motion that was not submitted to us yesterday. In fact, as you know, we started by asking for only a debate; then we tabled a motion, because it seemed right to include this debate through an instrument provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and to bring it correctly to the attention of the Bureau. We had seen his motion, which was genuinely inadmissible, but today he presented another motion, where we read: It shall undertake to re-evaluate in the competent fora, in accordance with the principles of Article 54 of the Constitution. Senator Vitali, you said you were grounded in some of our behaviors. I ask you whether you have considered Article 54 (2) of the Constitution, which your colleagues recall, but which is good to propose to the citizens: The citizens to whom public functions are entrusted have the duty to fulfil them with discipline and honor............................................................................................. [[Applause]] In fact, when you judge the case Formigoni, what do you find of good repute and discipline in having used the public health of the Lombardy Region as a fund fund for dream trips and luxury yachts for yourself and his friends? [[Applause]] That is why he has been sentenced to compensate EUR 47 million. I wonder: now we laugh at his vitality so he gives us back the 47 million euros? [[Applause]] That seems to me to be the right solution. [[Comments]] Let's move on. Not content, you have made the decision valid erga omnes, i.e. applicable to all cases of sentenced persons definitively to whom the vitality had been revoked. I am obliged to remember some names and crimes, because I believe that today there is the possibility to make Italian citizens understand who and what we are talking about. Let's talk about Senators Berlusconi, Utri and Cecchi Gori and crimes such as tax fraud, corruption and external competition in Mafia association. [[Applause]] I mean, it's okay. Senator Vitali, you say you're grounded, while we're shocked by the fact that you even wanted to tread your hand and, in order to be able to recognize a privilege to a corrupt, refer to article 18-a of the law on citizenship income. I'll tell you what. If it is a pension, you have to explain to me how we manage to have it after four years, six months and one day, because I understand that Italian citizens have to work 40 years to get their pension paid. [[Applause]] In addition, Senator Cucca quoted autodichia. True, we are in a self-dedication regime and in fact a resolution was adopted that, starting from the so-called Severino law, imposed, in a less severe way, the same parameters in the matter of incandidability or decadence, with reference to the deprivation of privileges linked to the performance of that function. If this is a pension, why doesn't the so-called Fornero law apply? Why isn't the Fornero law applied to senators? When things are convenient we are in self-declaration, while when this is not the case we look at ordinary law. [[Applause]] It can't be done. I'm sorry it can't work that way. Today the only intention of this motion is to make Italian citizens understand what is thought of the vitalities of the condemned: whether you think that a person condemned for serious crimes has the right to enjoy a privilege, or not. I am tired of the hypocrisy of the television proclamations, which are then subverted inside closed rooms such as the Conference of the Leaders, the contentious Commission, the Guarantee Council and the Bureau. We wanted to open this place and open it. Today you must tell the Italians if you want to revoke the vitalities of the condemned [[Applause]] It is simple, very simple, with respect to the words that I have to read: our position was and remains consistent; on the cut of the vitalities we will do everything possible at a time like this, when there are families who are asked back the accompanying allowance for disabled children, where there are families who have not seen the integration fund, where there are families who are losing the store and hope; the failure to cut the vitalities is a disgusting and shameful signal. These are the words of Senator Salvini [[Applause]] I asked the senators to approve the Richetti Bill on Vitalities and to approve it immediately, as it is. We started this battle at Leopolda in 2011, now we have to do the last mile and for me it must be done immediately. These are Senator Renzi's words. I have to make the last quote, Senator Vitali, because I didn't think it was said either; when I found it, I thought we all agreed. We must cut the lives of the condemned; the vitality was abolished in 2012 by the Right Center, it was our initiative; we have always worked to have a less expensive and more efficient political-institutional system, we had also approved a constitutional reform that reduced the number of parliamentarians, but it was prevented by the Left. Don't worry, we made it. [[Applause]] It doesn't seem to me that this is the right time to discuss these things (instead of this yes, this is the right time). We are at work to support a country that suffers, there is no time to waste to talk about vitality and decisions already made. This said on 27 June 2020 Silvio Berlusconi [[Applause]] I shall conclude with a quotation. Plato said that good people do not need laws that tell them to act responsibly, while bad people will find a way to circumvent laws. We, good people, are not going back. [[Applause. Cartels are on display.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u34	I ask you to immediately lower the signs and also not to take photographs, which is forbidden to all people, good or bad whether they are.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u36	I take note of that and give you the floor. Colleagues, given the recognized importance of the discussion by all the Groups, we try to have a consequent behavior.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u37	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would ask you to speak out for two reasons. I still believe in the logic that those who play a judicial role, even in this Parliament, have no opportunity to speak but by acts. Therefore, I will not speak on this issue, because we have already made the judgment, but I will not vote on any of the motions, firstly because in 2011, when I asked to speak on that document which was the regulation on the pensions of senators, I was told that it was the exclusive competence of the Presidency Council, it was not possible to speak about it in this House. I kept to the rule, but I see that we also have that rule in this betrayed rule, because it was not possible to talk about it in this House. [[Applause]] I shall confine myself here to making some remarks which are not my opinions, but absolute truths, which no one can discuss. President Grasso said that for the first time the measure was erga omnes. Senator Grasso, since you were President, but already before and even now, there are dozens of sentences of self-dedication organs, of the House and of the Senate, which deliberate erga omnes. This is not the first time this has happened. [[Applause]] There have been many decisions that have paid attention to constitutional rights, the same decision of the Guarantee Council, as you know better than I do, because then you were still President of the Senate, you canceled the decision of the Presidency Council concerning the early retirement block. You know very well that the Pagliari judgment on certification, as is the case with the vitals, cannot be called into question. Did we say that vitalities are a pension? No. Did we say vitals are a social security? No. We have noted that the united sections of the Court of Cassation, that is, the body that ensures the uniform application of our country's law, have stated that it is a treatment of a social security nature. This involves applying the rules of the Constitutional Court. You can say what you want, but on the basis of these principles you cannot reason in political terms. I shall confine myself, in conclusion, to observing that we are trying to do as in the worst period of the French Republic, that of the revolution, when we were pretending to impose, through the streets, the rules of the trial and to impose on the judges to respect the will of the people. I would like to thank President Bernini and President Berlusconi, for I have never had to discuss these matters in the Group and in the party, nor the calendar of hearings, nor what the systems and logics were. I know you have group meetings on jurisdictional matters. We are completely out of the rules of a democratic state. [[Applause]] The judge decides according to conscience and law. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u39	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u40	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, I speak even more rightly after Senator Caliendo's speech to point out that the motions presented against the restoration of vitality for condemned parliamentarians do not grasp the substance of the problem, namely that with the decision taken it is as if the Senate had consumed a kind of coup, indeed a self-golf, with a conflict of powers between internal organs that has no precedent in the history of the Republic. As far as self-declare is concerned, the Commission is, as is well known, a court of law. Well, the judgment in which you decided to return the vitality to Senator Formigoni was not limited, as Senator Grasso said, to judging on a specific case, but even proceeded to cancel a decision of the Presidency Council. [[Applause]] It is as if a court had deleted an ordinary law: a mess from the banana republic. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u41	Nicola's Senator, I'm sorry. I'm interrupting you without taking any time out of your intervention. I say to all my fellow senators that more than one not only has the scope, but has also come to discuss the substance of the sentence, began first Senator Vitali and then other senators who intervened later. I didn't take the word off them. However, I would ask you not to exceed the limit, because the subject of motions concerns the issue of regulatory vacuum and vitality. The question of the judgment can therefore be addressed, because it is linked; but if we enter into the substance of the decision beyond a certain limit, this Presidency will not allow it, for the sake of respect for the roles and powers of which this Presidency is the guarantor. Senator Di Nicola, of course you can express your opinion and time has stopped; but I would ask you not to put the Presidency in trouble.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr President, and I would ask you to take into account the actual time of my speech. That is why I believe there is room for the Senate to raise a conflict of attribution before the Constitutional Court. The invasion of a court in the field has inflicted a vulnus on the principle of separation of powers and I believe that the Presidency Council has a duty to promote this initiative. Otherwise - I say this to all those who dispute the decision - it is better to get out of the Presidency Council. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u43	All right, Senator Di Nicola. But I really do ask...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u44	DI NICOLA (M5S). May I speak, President?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u45	No, I'll explain. There is an appeal, made by those who are competent to do so, which has touched on all these arguments. So, I'm asking you to be on the subject. She said it, and we figured it out. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to take her word for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u46	Others have, ma'am. However, I believe that this is the right way to denounce, in front of the country, the seriousness of the decisions taken by the organs presided over by Senators Caliendo and Vitali. [[Applause]] I will say more, Mr President: there is another shame on which this Parliament continues to be silent. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u47	The debate has been held so far with a lot of commitment, but very well suited to the place, let us conclude it. The Presidency shall intervene when it considers it appropriate. Please, Senator Di Nicola. Your speech is a dissension and I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u48	I was saying, Mr President, that there is another shame in the matter of pensions, to which Parliament continues to silence, using all its privileges, while it could cancel it in five minutes by a resolution of the Presidency Council. It is that of double and triple pensions, alongside the vitality, that parliamentarians continue to benefit to the detriment of citizens, thanks to the scandal of figurative contributions. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u49	Please conclude. Of course, it is all too obvious that, by interrupting, the moment of conclusion is likely to be delayed. Please conclude, Senator Di Nicola.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u50	DI NICOLA (M5S). You have to give me back the time of the interruption. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I already gave it back to him and he's already stopped. Now I really beg you to finish. DI NICOLA (M5S). The scandal of figurative contributions. As the former President of INPS Boeri recalled today, there are hundreds of MEPs who, paying just 9% of the contributions, get the INPS to pay almost 24% for them. And then we talk about fairness! With regard to this, we cannot remain inert, because while senators in this House are granting hateful privileges, outside there are desperate citizens who are out of work and forced to pay the shame of life and figurative contributions. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u52	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u53	[[Comments]] VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Be quiet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vitali, speak to the presidency. VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr President, because we are talking about democracy, but we want to gag Parliament. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't worry that Parliament is very free right now. However, as I have already spoken, I also ask you not to go into the substance of the decision, as has already been done for others. [[Comments]] VITALI (FIBP-UDC). President, the sentence has been published and is therefore public. Interventions have been made on the judgment and, since I am the rapporteur of the judgment, I also speak in dissent for this reason. I am not going to make a meeting, like others, because I am doing the meetings on the electoral campaign; I am not going to mention personal political cases, because these too do not belong to the civil debate in this House. I just want to say to President Taverna that there is Article 57, but there is also Article 3 of the Constitution, for which every citizen must be treated in the same way and, then, if there are laws - one of them was made by Movimento 5 Stars; I refer to Article 18- bis of Decree-Law No 4 of 2019 - which allows those sentenced not for serious crimes to continue to maintain their pension and allowance, I did not understand why the parliamentarians should be treated in a worse way than any citizen. ( [[Comments]] ). Let me talk! I conclude because I expect someone to apologize for those slogans, clearly if there is intellectual honesty; if there is no intellectual honesty, everyone does what they want. I just want to quote a passage in the sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u54	No, I'll take your word for it. The Presidency must ensure the separation of roles. If you go into the substance of the sentence, I'm forced to take your word for it. On this the decision is irrevocable.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u55	I do not quote the sentence, but I say that my vote is in dissension because the sentence has not given back the vitality to the condemned. It was decided by the ruling that the former Member of Parliament should have a greater degree of good repute than the citizen and that sanctions should be imposed by the internal legislator (the Presidency Council), but taking into account the principles of reasonableness laid down by the Constitution, as for all citizens, in order to ensure respect for dignity and human rights. This says the sentence and this is practically what the motions call for. That is why I shall be voting against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u57	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u58	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, reading the three motions that have been tabled might seem that all the parties present in this House are against giving life to those who have been condemned. Read them; they are almost identical and, however, the vitality has been returned to those who have been condemned for serious crimes. Then, to the parties present and, above all, to those who wave signs with the inscription "to the vitality" I say that you have a specific way to stop all this: pull the plug to the government and let this indecent majority go home. Otherwise, the feeling is that these motions and whinings are merely a washing of consciences. To this the alternative is not lends itself and will not vote these motions for the reasons that Mr Primo Di Nicola has explained very well, in dissent from the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u60	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u61	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, the citizens understand one thing: the condemned resume their vitality. This is the easiest thing citizens have understood and will take. Therefore, it is right that I give full support to the motion of the Movimento 5 Stars, because I have campaigned on these morally important issues. I will abstain on the other two because I want to recognize to the Movement a job that has been done for a long time. That is precisely why I ask, in the name of ethics and morals, through the Presidency of the Movement: why is it right for the condemned not to give life, but for a condemned person for serious financial crimes, because he has rigged the budgets of Monte Paschi di Siena, the previous Government, through your vote, has still given support and trust? I'm talking about Alessandro Profumo, convicted in the first degree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Paragon, I'm asking you what your intervention is dissenting about. PARAGO (Mixed). He disagreed with the vote of the Mixed Group voting in favour of all three motions. I said that I will only vote in favour of the motion of the Movement and that I will abstain on the other two. Do I then make my political intervention as everyone has done, or does it bother you that in this Chamber it is said that Alessandro Profumo, condemned at first instance, is still the CEO of a publicly listed State shareholder? Why doesn't the Movement take away his trust? Why not also raise, through the Government, the action of responsibility for this condemned for serious financial crimes? The moral aspect must therefore apply to everyone. Yes, therefore, to this motion, yes to the ethical aspect that you raised, but enough with the condemned leading state participants listed on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u62	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 373, tabled by Senators Licheri, Malpezzi, De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 374, tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini, Ciriani and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Cucca and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 375. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4 p.m., with the vote for the election of two Secretary Senators. (The sitting was suspended at 11.23 a.m. and resumed at 16 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u63	The next item is the vote on the election of two Secretary Senators. Pursuant to Rule 5 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, each Senator or Senator will write on his card a single name. The two senators will be elected to obtain the highest number of votes. With equal votes, the oldest will be elected. Two booths have been set up in front of the Presidency to ensure the smoothest possible conduct of voting operations. My fellow senators, immediately before the entrance into the cabin, will receive from the parliamentary assistants the card that, after the vote, they will deposit in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. The call will be done in alphabetical order. After the call has been made, the ballot boxes will remain open until 7 p.m., while the Assembly will continue to discuss the next item on the agenda. I therefore declare the vote open and invite the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal. (The Senator Secretary Laforgia and, later, the Senator Secretary Montevecchi make the appeal). (The voting operations followed). (16.46) I declare closed the vote of the senators present at this moment in the Chamber. I warn the senators who have not yet voted that they will be able to do so until 7 p.m. (The ballot boxes remain open.) Those who wish to vote signal their presence to the Secretary Senators, who will take note of it, obviously without proceeding to call them, in order to be able to continue with the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u64	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1957, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u65	Mr President, the purpose of this agreement is to consolidate and further deepen the cooperation between the two countries in the field of public and private research in science and technology, already envisaged in broad terms by the 1975 bilateral cultural cooperation agreement, as well as to improve their technological knowledge and infrastructure endowments, also for the benefit of mutual economic development. The draft ratification law consists of five articles. Article 3, in particular, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, calculates the economic costs resulting from scientific and technological cooperation, as referred to in Article IV of the Agreement, in EUR 461,000 per year from 2020 and the mission expenses of the officials of the departments referred to in Article X in EUR 7,200 per alternate years from 2020. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, the European Union's legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u66	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I would suspend the voting procedures for the election of the Secretary Senators for a moment and then take them back during the explanations of vote, and I would proceed to the vote on the articles of the draft law in question to allow all colleagues to vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u69	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, in declaring the vote in favour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I ask for permission to submit the full text of the speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u70	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u73	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party Group on this and also the subsequent draft ratification laws. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u76	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, I announce the vote in favour of this bill of ratification by the Mixed-Liberary and Equal-Ecosolidal Groups and announce the cumulative vote in favour of the subsequent ones. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u79	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group both on this ratification and on the acts of ratification which will go after the vote and I ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u80	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u83	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I too am voting in favour of this bill of ratification by the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group and I am voting in favour of all subsequent ratifications. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u86	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I declare the Movimento 5 Star Group's vote in favour of this ratification and also the subsequent ratification. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u89	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure by the Brothers of Italy Group, as well as all the subsequent ones, excluding draft law No 1142-B, concerning the Agreement with the Republic of Kyrgyzstan. To that provision we shall vote against the continuing persecutions in that country against our Christian communities. I also call on the whole House not to ratify this agreement and to vote against it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u90	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u91	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2131, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u92	, f. f. Mr President, this Agreement stems from a proposal submitted by the Greek Government in 2013 and is linked to an agreement, already envisaged, to define the respective maritime areas, which dates back to 1977 and which is still in force, with which the two States, Italy and Greece, have delimited the continental shelf of the Ionian Sea. Neither of the two countries - I should like to stress at the moment - has proclaimed areas of functional jurisdiction, whether as reserved fishing or as an ecological protection zone or as an exclusive economic zone on the water column of the Ionian Sea. However - I would like to remind you - a special bill, the Senate Act 2007, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies and currently under consideration by the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee, expressly provides for the establishment of an exclusive economic zone beyond the external limit of the territorial sea. With regard to the compatibility profiles with national legislation, this act also presents no problem at all. I therefore propose that the House vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u93	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u96	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, on this measure as on the following, I declare the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour and I renew the request to submit the texts of the speeches to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u97	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Senators Alfieri, La Pietra, De Petris, Aimi, Lucidi and Ferrara confirm their previous intentions of voting in favour. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u98	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1959, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u99	Mr President, the House is called upon to vote on this measure, which has already been approved by the House of Members, in order to allow Ecuador to accede to an agreement already in place between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Peru and Colombia, on the other hand; hence, a classic protocol of accession which also allows Ecuador to join. This text constitutes the legal instrument with which Ecuador accedes to the Multiparty Agreement signed in 2012 by the European Union and its Member States with Colombia and Peru, namely the first Trade Agreement concluded by the European Union after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, which is an important instrument for the growth and development of regional integration between Europe and Latin America, which strengthens the political and economic links between the two geographical areas. Among the important aspects highlighted in the report, which accompanies the draft ratification law, is the European Commission's assessment of the expected aspects of accession to the Protocol, which should allow for an increase in EU exports to Ecuador of 42%; a saving of duties for EU exporters to the extent of at least EUR 106 million per year and new market access possibilities for agricultural, automotive and machinery products. The draft law of ratification of the Protocol consists of four articles and Article 3 lays down in particular a clause of financial invariance, establishing that the implementation of the law of ratification must not result in new or greater burdens on public finances. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any criticalities from the point of view of the constitutional order, nor of contrast with European law and other rules of international law to which Italy is bound. For these reasons, it is proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u100	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Alfieri, La Pietra, Garavini, Aimi, Lucidi, Ferrara and De Petris confirm the intentions of favorable vote expressed previously. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u101	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 2006, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Garavini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u102	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, which has already been approved by the House of Members, ratifying the amendments to the 1996 Agreement on the conservation of the cetaceans of the Black Sea, the Mediterranean Sea and the contiguous Atlantic area. The Agreement is one of the main international legal instruments aimed at the conservation of biodiversity and at reducing threats to the survival of cetaceans in those waters. The measure also provides for the creation of a network of protected marine areas and the regulation of cetacean fishing activities. The draft law of ratification lays down a clause of financial invariance; it provides that the implementation of ratification should not result in new or greater burdens for public finance and that the administrations concerned should carry out the activities envisaged with the human, financial and instrumental resources available under existing legislation. The text does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law and other international obligations, and that is why, as rapporteur, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u103	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Senators Alfieri, Garavini, Aimi, Lucidi and Ferrara, La Pietra and De Petris confirm the intentions of favorable vote expressed previously. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u104	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1142-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Rojc, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u105	Mr President, the Assembly is once again called upon to examine the draft law approved, with amendments, by the Chamber of Deputies, on the ratification of the Agreement between Italy and Kyrgyzstan on cultural, scientific and technological cooperation, signed in February 2013, renewing the last Understanding on these areas dating back to 1960, the year of the signing of the Agreement on cultural cooperation between Italy and the Soviet Union. The primary aim of the Understanding is to improve knowledge and understanding between the two peoples and to promote their respective cultural heritage through the exchange of experiences and data, especially at the scientific and technological level, on equal bases and reciprocity, while at the same time providing an effective response to the strong demand for Italian culture and language in Kyrgyzstan. It is recalled that the Senate Assembly had the opportunity to examine and approve the text of this bill, at first reading, on 30 October 2019. The amendments introduced by the House of Deputies, which result from a favourable opinion with a view to ensuring compliance with Article 81 of the Constitution formulated by the Budget Commission, concern Article 3 concerning the financial provisions of ratification, and postpone the relative authorisation of expenditure by two years. The draft law ratifying the Agreement consists of five articles, with reference to the economic burdens arising from the implementation of the measure. Article 3 assesses them in just over 135,000 euros for each of the years 2021 and 2022, and in 139,620 euros from 2023. The text does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation or with the European legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country and, therefore, it is proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u106	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Articles 1 and 2 have not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 4 and 5 have not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. Senators Alfieri, Garavini, Lucidi, La Pietra, De Petris and Ferrara confirm their previous voting intentions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u109	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am announcing the vote of abstention by the Forza Italia Group because of the rising persecution of the Christian minority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u110	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u111	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1143-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Craxi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u112	Mr President, the Assembly is once again called upon to examine the bill, approved with amendments by the House of Deputies, which ratified the Charter establishing the International Energy Forum, made in Riad, Saudi Arabia, in February 2011. It is recalled that the Senate Assembly already had the opportunity to examine and approve the text of this bill, at first reading, on 30 October 2019. The amendments introduced by the House of Deputies, following a favourable opinion with a condition, aimed at ensuring compliance with Article 81 of the Constitution, formulated by the Budget Commission, relate to Article 3, concerning the financial provisions of ratification, and postpone the relative authorisation of expenditure by two years. The bill of ratification of the Charter establishing the International Energy Forum consists of four articles. Article 3, in particular, assesses the overall economic burden of the measure, from 2021 onwards, in EUR 151,920, of which EUR 51,920 per year for mission expenses and EUR 100,000 per year for the compulsory financial contribution. The ratification of the Charter does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, the European Union's legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u113	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Articles 1 and 2 have not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Rule 4 has not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. Senators Alfieri, Garavini, Aimi, Lucidi, La Pietra, De Petris and Ferrara confirm their previous voting intentions. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u114	In view of the fact that the ballot boxes for the election of two Secretary Senators will remain open until 7 p.m., I would ask the Groups whether it is conceivable that the Presidency should begin at 6 p.m. the debate, which should not be too long, on draft law No 1196, the examination of which was concluded by the 1st Commission. We could end our work this evening. [[Applause]] Since there is no dissent, so it is established. The Budget Commission is therefore empowered to convene to express opinions on the text and amendments, which are very few. Pending the opinion of the Budget Commission, we shall proceed to the speeches on matters not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u117	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, I would like to address you and, through you, to the Government. I need a few minutes to denounce a strong concern regarding the Government's attempt to re-introduce into our regulatory framework the case of the highest-down procurement. With commitment and a great sense of responsibility, the Senate recently set up the Commission of Inquiry into working conditions in Italy, exploitation and safety in public and private workplaces. The parliamentary initiative bears witness to the unanimous awareness that the standards of security, well-being, guarantee, legality and fairness worthy of an advanced democracy like ours are, instead, for the national system, an aspiration that is still unrealized. (17.21) (Laus followed). Choosing the path of conscious action and projected towards goals of civilization, we cannot now afford a reversal of march and reason, as the government seems to be doing, on measures that would bring back the country of more than half a century in terms of protection. The prospect that the so-called simplification decree restores the use of the award criterion based on the maximum reduction distances us from the objective of protections and, above all, from the goal of not having to resort in the future to public investigations and public fines on the too many distortions that repress a constitutionally recognized right. The current procurement code has betrayed in fact more than an expectation of simplification and modernization of the Country, but Italy will have no advantage if the remedy will be worse than evil. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u120	ANGRISANI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ten years will have passed on 12 June from the 2011 referendum that saw the Italian people express themselves against the privatisation of the water system. With the second question in the referendum, in the determination of the integrated water service tariff, the reference to the appropriate remuneration of the capital invested was repealed in Article 152 of the Environmental Code. 26 million yess were not enough, with more than 57 percent of those entitled to express themselves democratically, to succeed in transforming the Italian water system, especially in regions such as Campania, where managements like that of GORI continue to vex citizens with continuous tariff increases, disservices and missed investments. Public water is a very important issue. We have always fought for the principle of water as a common good, indispensable and accessible to all without distinction and essential for survival. For the re-publishing of the water system there is a proposal for a firm law in the Chamber of Deputies, presented by my colleagues in the Movimento, in which the general principles of water are reaffirmed as natural good, universal right, fundamental and indispensable for life. It is intolerable, therefore, that the people's will should not be respected. In Campania, 98% of the voters voted in favour of the second referendum question. Water is a public good and such must return. On this position we must be consistent with the referendum decision. It is still not possible today to have managers like GORI, who make water a bargain paid by citizens at a high price, with increasingly exorbitant rates and at the same time we do not think twice to intimate or close the supply if you are not able to pay more and more exotic bills, the result of continuous and unjustified increases. Access to water is a universal human right and is also an essential condition to stem the dramatic sanitation emergency that we are experiencing. Reasoning on price increases at a time of economic and social crisis such as the one we are experiencing because of the Covid emergency, with families reduced on the brink and increasing difficulties in finding employment, is really unacceptable. Ten years after that referendum, inspired by over 400,000 signatures collected by water movements and confirmed by millions of Italians, we still do not have a network of water infrastructure worthy of one of the most developed countries in the world. This is very serious and I feel it is my duty today to stress this and to invite everyone to reflect on this subject. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u123	LONARDO (Mixed). Mr President, I have tabled more than 80 questions in time and have received only eight percent of them, so only ten. There have been more governments, with different majorities, but the attitude has always remained the same: very little attention to the voices that come from the territory and that, through the parliamentarians, want to reach the Executive. The citizens are waiting for answers and attention, but I must find that they receive only indifference: they bear witness to it. Among the many questions that I look forward to in vain, the one for which I address today a heartfelt appeal to the Minister to respond to me is the 4-05324, with reference to the records of the Revenue-Risk Agency and the installment for the period 2020/2021. The Revenue Agency is applying sanctions and interest which, added up, reach the threshold of absolute alarm, well over 100% of the tax, as a result of the forfeiture of the benefit of the installment payment. There are many taxpayers, both natural and legal persons, who have failed to comply with payment payments to the tax system due to the pandemic, which has led to severe decreases in liquidity due to low consumption and the activation of the Covid Integration Fund. The Revenue Agency cannot demand the full payment of the debt, aggravated by interest and sanctions, within sixty days only following a late payment, sometimes even of only one instalment, and the consequent forfeiture from the benefit of the term, given the extraordinary economic crisis in which the country lives. Interests and sanctions so high practiced by the Revenue Agency strongly weaken the battle that the State leads in the fight against usury, considering it a phenomenon to be countered with force. That is why, at this very moment of severe economic recession, we need to remedy it. I asked the Minister to know the reasons why the Government does not carefully monitor the application of the interest rate and the sanctions applied by the Agency of revenue which, according to calculations made, exceeds 100% of the charge on the tax due; if and what initiatives the Minister intends to include in the next measures, in order to determine more fair payment conditions for those who have fallen from the benefit of the installment, the facilitated definition or the scrapping. I have also asked whether it does not consider that an urgent decision should be taken to remedy the above condition of imbalance adopted by the Revenue Agency towards Italian taxpayers. These are the questions I asked the Minister, and I hope that the answers will come soon, not for me, but for the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u126	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, what I am about to read are the words of one of the most important men who have made and still today make Italian sport fishing famous in the world, which has been awarded many times in the field of sports, is a writer of books and documentary writer and therefore also a reference figure for this important sector. His name is Roberto Ripamonti and he writes me about a serious problem, that of reimmissions: "Dear Simone, as you well know sports fishing in Italy moves a dynamic and important social, cultural, sports and productive fabric; he is an important carrier to bring the youngest to the open air, is leisure for the older, is healthy and functional activity for the disabled. The number of practitioners is more than two million, the yield exceeds three billion euros and there are over 15,000 workers throughout the sector. Sport fishing is also a tourist tool and consequently an economic carrier of great importance for all the territories bathed by rivers, lakes, streams and is often the only true tourist attraction in the face of an induced. In neighbouring nations (Austria, Croatia, Bosnia and Slovenia) this activity is structured and attracts tens of thousands of enthusiasts throughout Europe to benefit from the waters managed with entrepreneurial criteria but respecting the natural environment. Our watercourses are the subject of threats ranging from industrial discharges to water collection to poaching, not to mention the deadly presence of ichthyophageous species such as cormorant, a true destroyer of fish stocks of the creeks. Repopulations, therefore, are the only real tool for restoring balance. Repopulations. The adoption of exactly restrictive scientific criteria has blocked the entry for repopulation purposes in almost all of the national territory, altering a management balance achieved for over a century. The implementing decree of 2 April 2020, with reference to Article 3 criteria for the release into nature of non-automated species or populations, is achieving devastating results for the entire sector for the blockage of inputs of the brown trout, the iris trout and the coregon. The continuation of the threats described above, in the face of missing repopulations, has emptied the Italian waterways, removing thousands of enthusiasts with devastating damages for the related economic activities. In addition, a sector of fish farming has entered into a crisis, which avoids an important source of turnover without the possibility of making adjustments to the changed regulatory framework. Thousands of jobs are therefore at risk for a superficial choice, even more inappropriate in the presence of a pandemic. It is therefore necessary to restore the admissions in compliance with the existing fish charts, ignored by this decree, redesigning a regulatory system adapted to reality by means of a document that allows with immediate effect the introduction of adult and sterile specimens of the fish species of interest; all this in order to restore a consolidated situation in more than a hundred years of admissions and to allow all the economic induced currently blocked to leave. Estimatingly, Roberto's. Mr President, it is clear that an entire sector is being killed here. The pandemic was not enough to kill men and activities. Where and why does this stupid desire to destroy a sector of healthy activities come from? These are unjustified choices. It is too easy to fill your mouth nowadays with beautiful words such as "environmentalism", "ecology", "safeguard" of the watercourses. The reality is that this is only stupid and shortsighted extremist ideology that does not benefit anyone, neither the environment, nor activity, nor man. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u129	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now unanimously recognised that the early diagnosis, the quality of the services provided, collegiality and the effective cooperation of the various operators involved - psychomotorists, speech therapists, socio-pedagogic educators - is essential in achieving the best and most evident results in the rehabilitation of children with autistic spectrum. Well, the Campania Region has deliberated a measure that goes exactly in the opposite direction: it has decreed a cut to the hours (already few, for the truth) of therapy to which every autistic child has the right. He also resolved the removal of some professional figures, in particular pedagogists and socio-pedagogic operators, who are part of the team that takes charge of the autistic child and who actively participates in his rehabilitation project and its diagnostic, therapeutic and welfare path. The vice-president of the Campania Regional Council, Valeria Ciarambino del MoVimento 5 Stars, called for the immediate suspension of this resolution, which offends, in its crudeness and in its purely economic reasons, the dignity of autistic children and their families. I would like to reiterate once again strongly that the battle for autism is fought with concrete actions and interventions, not in words or on footbridges. [[Applause]] We talk about reducing lists and waiting times for access to accredited centres, which in some cases exceed a year. We are talking about the recognition and authorization by every health care company to adopt the best scientifically recognized therapies, first and foremost ABA method, and the right of every small patient to take advantage of them free of charge, regardless of where he lives. There are families in poor economic conditions, who cannot access these innovative therapies. In this regard, I have tabled a draft law (Act No 1397), which is still in the Commission, and an amendment to the decree-law supports, unfortunately not approved by the Ministry of Health, to try to reduce these very serious inequalities. Autistic children must be assisted in an effective and early way, in order to guarantee them a rehabilitation path capable of recovering all their autonomy margins. They need help, not waste; they cannot be saved on the skin of children and teenagers who are more fragile. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u132	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, what I want to talk to you about this evening is the social pact of trust that we all have towards others. Without this pact of trust, nothing can be done in our society. You can't take a plane if the trust pact doesn't exist, because clearly, when some of us get on a plane, you're trusting who designed and built that plane, who drives it, and who maintained and controlled it. So, in light of all the things that have been going on in recent times, I would like to appeal to the Government for this simplification decree that is coming. If public control of human actions is to speed up our economy and simplify, we risk the social pact of trust. Once again, the liberalisation of public procurement and, therefore, safety in the workplace is extremely serious. It can be extremely serious. We had 185 deaths at work in the first quarter, two deaths a day since the beginning of the year. I have difficulty talking about the massacre of the Mottarone or the Morandi bridge, where it was the bad maintenance that created the massacres. We must understand in which direction we want to go, if we want to safeguard the social pact of trust or if we want it to fail; with its failure, surely the socio-economic recovery of this country will never be there. So, so that simplifications and speedings are not at the expense of public control and control over private operations, I appeal here and now to the Government, so that the incoming decree will maintain and assure us of the necessary controls on all the operations that will serve the community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u133	As announced by President Calderoli, we await 6 p.m. to move on to the next measure. (17.40) Ladies and gentlemen, to allow the arrival in the Chamber of the representative of the Government who followed the bill No 1196 and the expression of the opinions of the 5th Commission, I suspend the sitting until 6.15 p.m., and then resume both with the examination of the bill and with the possible further votes for the election of two Senators Secretary. The sitting shall be suspended until 6.15 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.05 p.m. and resumed at 6.15 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I remember that the ballot boxes are open for the election of two secretary senators. I greet and thank the Undersecretary Scalfarotto, to whom we have asked for the sacrifice to be present and who has agreed very diligently.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u134	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1196 and 1382. The rapporteur, Senator Pirovano, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u135	Mr President, I should like to briefly outline the draft law under consideration, whose work in the Commission has been completed in record time thanks to the cooperation of all the groups, within a restricted committee which has worked very well. In agreement with all the members of the Commission, we have chosen to focus only on a few very precise aspects of the amendment to the single text of the local authorities (TUEL), precisely to ensure that the draft law is sent out, so that it can then be sent to the House and receive final approval in good time, also with a view to the next election round. The draft law signed by Senator Augussori was amended by common accord, thanks to the collaboration of the Undersecretary Scalfarotto, whom I thank very much for the availability and attention shown, and of all the members of the Commission. The main points are essentially three. The bill is very slender and consists of only two articles. Article 1 amends the quorum for small municipalities if only one list is present at municipal elections. The quorum today is 50% in order to avoid the risk of being a commissioner and, precisely because there is only one list, it is often difficult to reach it, not so much because the list or the candidate are not appreciated, but because the citizens, aware that there is only one list, sometimes believe that it is not necessary to go to the ballot box. This quorum is lowered to 40% and, therefore, to be elected mayor, the candidate must obtain 50% of the votes of a 40% of voters who go to the polls. The quorum of participation is reduced to 40% which, considering the average, is about half of the turnout in the municipal elections. In order to reach the quorum, voters residing abroad who are included in the Register of Italian residents abroad (AIRE) who do not vote are not considered. This means that foreign residents who vote are rightly considered, but, also given the pandemic situation, which has made it even more difficult to move (the content of Article 1 had already been included in the decree extending elections and was valid only for this year's elections), members of the AIRE who do not vote are not considered. This is because, especially in small municipalities (in particular some mountain communities which have seen an increasingly serious depopulation in recent years), there are limited cases in which the members of AIRE are even more than the residents. Article 1 is the result of the Commission's work and has been retabled as an amendment by the rapporteur. Article 2 addresses the problem of collecting signatures in municipalities under 1,000 inhabitants. According to Article 3 of Law No 81 of 25 May 1993, the single text of local authorities provides that signatures should only be collected in municipalities with a population of more than 1,000 inhabitants. For the municipalities under 1,000 inhabitants we went to identify bands to ensure that the collection of signatures does not penalise the smaller municipalities with a small population, but at the same time avoiding the risk of hack lists that are presented without the citizens being aware of them. There has been a long debate among the various groups on how to resolve this issue and a number of proposals have been put forward. I recall that there was the so-called Taricco bill linked to the measure in question, which proposed another solution to prevent the pro-Taric lists. We agreed that the ideal solution was to provide for a number of signatures appropriate to the number of voters. Therefore, if the number of inhabitants of the municipality is between 1,000 and 2,000, the required signatures range from a minimum of 25 to a maximum of 50; in the range between 751 and 1,000 inhabitants, the number of signatures is between 15 and 30; in the range between 501 and 750 inhabitants, the number of signatures is between 10 and 20; in the range up to 500 inhabitants is instead between 5 and 10. This means that, since the candidates on a list must be at least ten plus the mayor, each candidate is still in a position to recover at least one signature, whether from a relative, a friend or an acquaintance, in order not to go just to penalize the collection of signatures in small municipalities. Moreover, Article 60 of the single text of the laws for the composition and election of the organs of the municipal administrations, referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic, May 16, 1960, No 570, is repealed. Not only have we fixed the text of the single text of the laws on local authorities, but we have also removed a double rule that could create confusion and we know that in our legislation the problem of references and regulatory references is quite frequent. We have done one more thing and I conclude my speech with this clarification. Following the adoption of the two amendments by the rapporteur on the points I mentioned earlier in relation to Articles 1 and 2, we tabled and voted in the Commission on a coordinating amendment to ensure that, once the law has arrived in the hands of the citizens and of course of future candidates, it is as clear as possible, so we have renumbered the letters so that, when there is a need for signatures, there is no - bis, -ter, -quater, etc., but a), b, c, d, e, etc. It is therefore a very simple, clear and incisive bill which we hope will be useful for our future administrations. I also remember that our administrators, both current and future, are to be admired for the courage they have and the good will they show in running and continuing to work in a really difficult situation for all our territories. I therefore hope that this will be the first of a series of measures, even on time, such as this one, since their process is moving faster and they all agree, to improve working conditions in local administrations, because that is where the policy with capital P is concerned. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u136	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u137	Mr President, I simply wish to express my appreciation for the way in which we have worked in the Commission and in the restricted committee on this text. The subject, as the rapporteur said, is - I dare say - real democracy in some marginal areas, in which unfortunately there were situations that did not help local communities to properly manage electoral procedures. The first question was that of foreign lists, that is that they came from other communities to run in tiny municipalities where there was a single one, to some extent to occupy the spaces of minorities, creating a series of problems and local diseconomies: in this case, the insertion of a minimum number of signatures also for the municipalities under the 1.000 inhabitants I think it has well addressed and solved the issue. The second issue is linked to the achievement of the quorum where there was a single candidate, which, in the combined arrangement of the reduction in the number of voters in general and of many members on the AIRE lists, had in fact become almost impossible and in many cases led to the Commissariat of the Municipalities. I believe that what we have identified in the restricted committee and then in the Commission is a good solution. I had presented with my colleagues a legislative text on the same issues, No 1382, which was combined with the one under discussion. I believe that this is a good thing and that it represents an important signal from us towards the local communities, of attention also to small things, which then often represent the difference between giving answers and simplifying procedures or just talking about it. This time, we intervened punctually, giving answers and I hope that the measure can be quickly approved here in the Senate and then converted to the House, so that the signal of attention that we give to the small municipalities is concrete, punctual and real. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u138	He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u139	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all the people who have contributed and collaborated, first of all the rapporteur, the Undersecretary Scalfarotto and all the members of the Commission and the Select Committee, not to mention the offices of the 1st Commission and the Ministry, which have made an important contribution; it is also good to remember them and their support, which has contributed, together with that of all the others, to the excellent outcome of the process of this measure. The intention behind this bill, as other colleagues have already said, was to pay attention to some of the problems of the small municipalities. This is a sector that is often poorly considered and we really do it from the heart, because many of the Senators of the Lega Group are also or have been local administrators, so there is a strong sensitivity to this aspect. For the good outcome of this measure has certainly given a contribution also the excellent collaboration that has been created with the structure of the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI) and the National Association of Small Municipalities of Italy (ANPCI). This law deals, with two different articles, two different problems, apparently they are separated from each other, but in reality they integrate and support each other; there is this interchange of mutual usefulness between the two articles and for this reason it is necessary that they be present in the same provision. The starting point was to address these two specific issues, but it was also the will to address what is becoming more and more a problem, that is, the difficulty of finding people available - let me use this term - to sacrifice themselves sometimes to play the role of mayor in small municipalities. There are a lot of problems, starting from a laughable allowance to criminal liability. There are many issues on which we will have to intervene, but all these difficulties lead to more and more common - when it is okay - with a single list, which, however, has those problems of achieving the quorum that the rapporteur explained well. The risk of being with countries, towns or small comuni commissariati is increasing, because, as we all know, if the election is declared null and void, the comuni is being policed. The aim has therefore been to intervene in this respect. We have lowered the quorum threshold from 50 to 40%, trying to identify this 40% not as a random throwaway figure, but as half as 80 percent, which is all in all the real average turnout of the time we live in. Voters residing abroad, registered in the AIRE register, are removed from the quorum. Clearly, they are not deprived of the right to vote (it would be wrong, it is sacrosanct); however, if they choose not to return from abroad and not to participate in the vote, it is not right that their absence affects the quorum. I would point out that in some municipalities there is an AIRE representation rate of more than 50%; therefore, even assuming full support for the only list of all the residents' electorate, the election would still be null and void. Often and willingly, the only remaining of salvation was precisely the second list of support, which allowed to bypass the achievement of the quorum. Hence the link with the second article, which goes to try to limit the phenomenon of intruders or protrude lists (as we have defined them with a term that has now become legal). You have also heard them mentioned by other colleagues: they are those lists outside the community and the country that vote and that are born for various reasons. The first is that for certain categories, to have access to a period of expectation equal to that of the electoral campaign: one gives oneself a month of free holidays, at the expense of the taxpayer, without having any interest in the electoral round. The second category is constituted - as my colleague Taricco said - by those lists that come from outside, even from outside the Region, only by monitoring where there is a second list, because even with very few votes you can be elected city councillors and therefore enjoy the paid permits for absence from work and various benefits. This generates for those small - sometimes micro - common costs that become unsustainable. The municipal budget, in its accessible part, covers all the expenses that are generated by these lists. Then there is a third reason, which is that of a political visibility of some lists, maybe even of some extremist areas (I don't distinguish between right and left), which, in order to have some elected, go to candidate and show up in mountain villages, and then from there act politically. Clearly this distortion and puts in serious difficulty the good living of those communities and it is certainly something that with this standard we must try to avoid, because the first objective must be to safeguard them. Hence the choice to include the obligation to present the signatures of the subscribers in support of the lists also in the municipalities under the 1.000 inhabitants, who were deprived of them, only because it serves to demonstrate that that list has a bond and a trust with the residents. That's all I'm gonna say. Of course, as was said before, we all hope that this evening, in this branch of Parliament, the draft law will be adopted. We hope that there will be a rapid second reading, so that we can apply the law already in the elections next autumn. We are aware, as far as we are concerned, that we have done our job. We will continue to do so and to pay attention to the small municipalities, especially those 5,000 small municipalities that are the backbone of our country and that are the front desk of the public administration. When a citizen has a problem, in the vast majority of cases the direct interlocutor is the mayor. This bill is also a way of saying thank you to all the mayors for the work they do and for the dedication they put in it. Thank you, mayors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u140	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u141	Mr President, I am speaking in the context of a draft law on local authorities. I believe that every debate and every intervention on the municipalities is one of the most effective ways to take care of the communities that live there. The valorization of our territorial communities through the bodies representing them, care for their interests and promote their development was one of the objectives of the reform of Title V which subverted the formulation of Article 114 of the Constitution. Think that we have passed from the original formulation, which divided our Republic into Regions, Provinces and Municipalities, to the current one, which established that the Republic is constituted by the Municipalities, Provinces, Metropolitan Cities, Regions and the State. As you can see, the paradigm shift is clear. The new wording attaches maximum value to the institutions closest to the citizens and gives concrete implementation to the precept set out in Article 5 of the Constitution. Moreover, this rule forms the basis for the principle of subsidiarity laid down in Article 118 of the Constitution, which assigns administrative functions primarily to the municipalities. The described installation set out in our Constitutional Charter should already make clear the importance of the issues discussed today. The speech is even more valid considering that the draft law under discussion also concerns electoral matters. Only a few weeks ago, on the occasion of the conversion process into law of the decree that postponed the local elections planned for this spring to next autumn, an amendment was approved by me which, for the first time, allows the nomination of list representatives by certified e-mail and avoids the authentication of the signature of the delegate if the act was signed electronically by the delegate himself. [[Applause]] At the moment, the measure was planned for the election round next autumn, but the House has already shown that it is sensitive to the objective of simplifying and digitising electoral procedures. In this regard, I would like to thank all the senators who have signed my draft law, which is currently being examined by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which aims to give stability to the measure at all territorial and electoral levels. No less important is the bill that we are about to approve today. The legislative intervention intervenes on the law n. 81 of 1993, providing a minimum number of subscriptions for the presentation of the lists of candidates to the City Council and the related nominations for the office of mayor in the smallest municipalities. At the same time, there is an intervention on the single text of the laws on local government law, reducing to 40% the structural quorum required for the validity of local elections in municipalities with a population of less than 15.000 inhabitants. In the calculation, however, no account will be taken of the voters registered in the register of Italian residents abroad who have not voted. These amendments are technically simple, but are intended to simplify the electoral rules of small municipalities and to prevent them from being paralysed because of the number of residents who are unable to exercise the right to vote because they are out of office or resident abroad. It is another small piece that goes to compose a much wider mosaic, that of all the epochal reforms that, also thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, on the piece for years, we have managed to approve in the course of this legislature, while others are in itinere. Our country has been waiting for such reforms for decades and neither has the abrupt interruption of the two Governments presided over by our Giuseppe Conte managed to arrest them. In that case, it was transformism and palace games that won, which certainly do not affect all the citizens who are outside this House today; Today, however, they are the ones who win, especially those who live in small municipalities, modest and often peripheral realities that deserve to be valued and supported by all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u142	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency states that amendments 1,101, 1,102, 1,103, 1,104 and 1,105 are unacceptable because of the extraneous nature of the matter. I would warn the House that amendment 1.0.100, signed by Senator Iannone, has been changed to agenda G1. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which are to be referred to, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u143	Mr President, the opinion on Amendment No 1,100 is against it. I am also against the G1 agenda for the explanatory statement which I do not think is necessary to the rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u144	Mr President, I am against Amendment No 1,100 and an invitation to withdraw on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u145	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I ask Senator Iannone if he insists on voting on the G1 agenda. IANNONE (FdI). I insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G1 agenda, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u148	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, Senators and Senators, Government, I rise to express a positive assessment of the Italian Viva Group on the measure under consideration for all the reasons expressed in previous speeches, since the draft law has been widely shared during the work of the Commission. It has been shared above all from the point of view of the work and the final objective, because it was and is a topic, that of the local authorities, which dealt with in this way can only see us united. It is in fact a question of the real exercise of democracy, as was said earlier, since Article 1 provides for the lowering of the quorum in the event of a single list being presented. This is not an issue that wants to simplify the elections of a mayor; better, it wants to do that because in many cases, where there are no nominations and it is not possible to create a contrast between two or more lists, there is the need to safeguard the possibility that even one list can lead to the election of the mayor, reducing the quorum of participation. Before it was 50 percent, it is now being moved to 40, subtracting foreign residents from AIRE who do not participate in the vote, thus allowing those municipalities to be removed from the possible police station. Having a commissioner or having a mayor is not the same thing, as the citizens who are in a position to deal with a commissioner and not with a mayor know. The second article, relating to the signature of the lists, goes also in the direction of allowing the reduction of the number of signatures necessary, in order to allow the possibility of submitting lists, where there are difficulties to do so, and to eliminate the provisions of Law No 81 of 1993: that is, in municipalities with a population of less than one thousand, it was not necessary to submit subscription signatures. In fact, a democratic principle is strengthened, because it avoids the possibility of arriving at the last minute, as is normally the case, lists built in other territories only to mark a presence. In this way, by placing a symbolic number of 5-10 signatures, the possibility of democratically exercising control over the presentation of lists is avoided, thus providing for a minimum of possible signatures. That is a measure that must not be said much more. The spirit that has led us to be together in the definition of these rules must be enhanced, because when it comes to local authorities, there must be the necessary willingness to find common solutions. Today we see how the mayor's profession is the most complex. As Senator Augussori said earlier, the municipality is certainly the main point of reference for citizens. Therefore, we must absolutely create the conditions to make life easier for local administrators and the democratic exercise of the election of the first citizens. This is what inspired the common spirit of work in the Commission. As far as we are concerned, a thank you goes to the rapporteur, to the Government and in particular to the Undersecretary Scalfarotto, who has helped, in the work of the Commission, to find common solutions and to bring this bill to a more advanced point. We therefore reiterate our vote in favour of the adoption of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u151	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure by Brothers of Italy, because we think it is certainly an improvement measure, a step forward compared to a problem that we have also pointed out for a long time. We do not think it is very good, because in our opinion it would have been much simpler and more linear, as originally proposed by the ANCI, to provide for the threshold of 20% of the votes cast by the candidate, so as not to have to make a shrewd calculation for situations at the limit. We believe, however, that what has been found is an acceptable compromise and we allow ourselves, here, where the technical analysis of the article is very narrow, to draw the attention of the Government and all the political forces to the problems that the citizens of the smaller communities, especially those of the internal areas, who suffer from a problem of de-anthropization. These communities have found it difficult not only to express a representation, but also in their daily lives. Italy risks losing many municipalities, many identities, many riches that represent the soul of our nation. I therefore appeal to the Government to ensure that there are policies that go in the direction of ensuring equality of citizens, with the same duties and rights, and not second-class and second-class citizens, since everyone pays taxes in the same way. Similarly, I believe that, when we examined the last electoral decree-law, we missed the opportunity to clarify certain aspects of the forthcoming elections which, in our view, should not have been postponed. In fact, democracy cannot also be locked down, since it has been voted in all European realities, to which you very often refer. Only in Italy this was not possible and we are still waiting for a date identified inside the window. We hope that the decision can be made as soon as possible, but certainly without easing the procedures that certify the morality of candidates in the most absolute way - and we say so from the right, from the party of the law. Procedures that should have been lightened also in the light of the conditions under which public offices still exist. I would like to thank the Commission, the rapporteur, the working group for this which we consider to be a step forward, and I confirm the support of the Brothers of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u154	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I want to say at once that it is always good news when Parliament's attention is directed, as we are doing today, at those local communities that we usually call small municipalities. These municipalities not only represent a substantial and numerically important part of the total number of Italian municipalities, but represent something more, both in the social and civil history of the country and - I believe - in the different future that today, after more than a year of pandemic, we can and must imagine. On this goal the Democratic Party has always been there and will always be there. That is why we have worked on this measure in order to make the text really capable of dealing with the many issues that administrators very often ask us to solve. The first is given, as has been said, by the current elections for municipalities up to 15,000 inhabitants, where the incidence of AIRE members is particularly heavy to reach the famous quorum in the case of a single list. The second question concerns the opportunistic and instrumental lists which come from outside the territory of the single municipality. The merit of both problems has already been clarified. I would just like to add two considerations: the first concerns the growing objective difficulties that many municipalities have been expressing for a long time, long before the pandemic emergency broke out. These difficulties are mainly linked to the widespread depopulation that has long invested the most peripheral areas of our country. It is a profound phenomenon that has social and economic roots that cannot be resolved by intervening only and exclusively on the rules. It is clear, then, that, among the many effects that the emptying of these centres produces, there is also a participation, unfortunately, increasingly limited to public life, therefore also to the vote by the rightholders, whether they are resident or, to a greater extent, the members of the AIRE. On the subject of the members of AIRE, especially in smaller municipalities, we are very often talking about people who no longer exercise the right to vote for a long time, with the result that they can - but actually concrete - help to render the election invalid for failure to reach the quorum. We can and must provide a solution to all of this which essentially safeguards three elements: the validity of the elections, the democratic principle and the full electoral legitimacy of the representative bodies. The second point concerns the more strictly constitutional aspect of this bill, which is mainly linked to two profiles: on the one hand, the lowest threshold defined for quorums, which goes from 50 to 40%; on the other hand, the issue of members abroad, therefore the relationship between citizenship and residence for voting in local elections, which is the framework in which every evaluation on the division of citizens enrolled in AIRE is inserted. If the right to vote from abroad is not provided for local elections, as is the case for general elections and referendums, the reasons are clear. There is no doubt a motivation linked to the specific importance of territorial rooting in this type of election and the need for the voter to demonstrate this rooting with the direct presence in the elections. I repeat that all this is clear and understandable, but it goes hand in hand with the need to avoid distortions as regards the validity of an election, in the case of a single list. In this direction, in order to avoid possible distortions, it must be chosen to separate voters living abroad from the quorum calculation. This is to say that today's is not a new solution for the Democratic Party, which was among the first, in the past, to present similar legislative proposals. It is therefore a proposal that today we can only judge balanced from the point of view of the constitutional principles and capable of giving answers that, for a long time, the Municipalities, also through the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI) and their representatives, ask. Finally, I would like to add a word on the extension of the subscriptions of the lists for municipalities between 2,000 and 500 inhabitants, to prevent the use of the elective reserve to guarantee minorities, by lists that are born with objectives that are quite far from the good of a community and a territory. The risk that the introduction of signatures might prove to be an obstacle, rather than protection for candidates, has also been noted in an understandable way. I understand the observation, but I believe that the danger of counterproductive effects can also be excluded, as provided for in the different modulation of the number of signatures proportional to the inhabitants. In conclusion, I really hope that this measure will be the first concrete step in responding to the problems that remain open to so many small municipalities: I am thinking, for example, of granting a fair allowance to the mayors, the issue of associated management, as well as the question of exceeding the mandate limits. Also from the answers to these issues passes the necessary strengthening of an indispensable part of the social and administrative structure of our country. For all these reasons, therefore for the merit of the final measure and because we have contributed to this shared text, the Democratic Party's vote on the draft law under consideration will be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u155	I declare closed the vote for the election of two secretary senators. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the scrub of the ballots. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Senators took part in the vote: Agostinelli, Aimi, Alfieri, Anastasi, Arrigoni, Astorre, Auddino, Agugusori Bagnai, Balboni, Barboni, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Binetti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Borghesi, Bossi Simone, Bressa, Briziarelli, Buccarella Calandrini, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Carbone, Casolati, Castellone, Castiello, Causin, Cesaro, Cioffi, Ciriani, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Startini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corrado, Decarti, Craxi, Croatti, Delfonso, D'Arienzo, Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u158	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, this measure, which has seen a fruitful work in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has been described by someone as a small speech, but frankly we think it is quite important. The work we have done allows us to reach the adoption of the bill, thanks also to the availability, collaboration and the work done, for which I thank the rapporteur, the restricted committee and all those who wanted to make their contribution, also in relation to the initial draft law and other draft laws in this area. It is clear to everyone that we have a lot to work for the small municipalities, which, as my colleagues have just said, are a very important reality, not only from the numerical point of view, because they represent a not indifferent percentage of the Italian municipalities, but because they are a great resource for the country. However, they have many problems, also arising from the fact that they are very often part of the internal areas of the country: I think of the municipalities of mountains or those municipalities whose citizens live very often conditions that are not simple and uncomfortable, for example from the point of view of services, transport and communications. I would like to remind you that in the last parliamentary term a very important law was adopted, on which we had worked over the years, namely the Law on Small Municipalities. In August 2020 a fund for the support and development of small municipalities was approved by decree, and resources were included in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, in particular for internal areas. But I think we should do even more about other aspects, because these areas - I repeat - are an important reality from the percentage point of view and for the country itself. See that the future of our country - I say this also as an environmentalist - is also very linked to the possibility that in the internal areas, therefore in the small municipalities, depopulation stops. In fact, this basically means preserving the resources of our country from an environmental point of view and also the possibility of recovery and resilience. We have given indications and approved the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. However, I believe that we should check, intervene and encourage greater attention. Think also about the whole game of digital and technological innovation. Let us not forget these realities because today, for example, thanks to digital innovation, we could give the possibility of a true future to these areas and also to stop depopulation. The draft law before us - and I repeat this again - intervenes with amendments and, in my opinion, finds a solution that is absolutely appropriate to a problem that intervenes at the most important moment, the democratic one of the elections. Some have just said that the lowering of the quorum was not adequate enough, but I think that having brought back to 40% of voters registered on the municipal electoral lists the number of voters, even in the presence of a single list, is an important result because a change is introduced, i.e. we do not take into account the voters enrolled in AIRE: this is fundamental precisely for the reasoning I did before. In fact, we know what happened: very often they made almost fake lists - let's call them that - to avoid this problem. I believe that, by intervening in a simple, rational and effective way, we bring to a situation of transparency the issues that many municipalities face. Very often, in fact, in these municipalities you have the opportunity to make only one list, and you understand well that often participation in the vote, if there is one list, risks being considered useless, because you take for granted the victory. To intervene on the quorum is therefore essential, by eliminating non-voting members: this is absolutely important. We do not remove the right to vote to anyone, but the non-voters enrolled in AIRE, who are therefore resident abroad, are removed from the quorum. There is another element introduced to restore transparency, clarity and strength at the time of democratic elections. To have spoken with Article 2 in order to ensure that even in communities under 1,000 inhabitants lists can be presented with a small number of signatures, but of resident subscribers, I believe it is a fundamental element in restoring strength and vigour to the democratic element of the elections. In our country, municipal elections are perhaps the most important. We always think that they are other, but the municipal elections are the elections in which a community decides how to express not only its own needs, but also the government of the territory. I believe that the two speeches proposed help to develop the element of clarity, democracy and transparency of the elections and I therefore believe that the work has been effective. For all these reasons, we announce the vote in favour of the Mixed-Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u161	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to dwell on the substance of this measure. I took part in the restricted committee, my colleagues explained it, the rapporteur was on time and my previous colleagues repeated all the passages that led us to dismiss this text. I like to talk about the method here, because the other Members have spoken on the substance, as I said, and I agree with it. The Forza Italia Group will vote in favour, but I want to highlight the method. We have been doing a great job here in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for some time. I believe that I was the first or, in any case, the first to propose to the President of the Commission the establishment of restricted committees, which are an important element. Within them, in fact, with the representatives of all the Groups, who deepen a single subject, we arrive at shared positions. In the end, those who make politics, those who make lists, those who submit nominations know the problems and the ways to deal with them cannot be different between groups, if there is common sense. This really gives me hope that another policy, a better policy, will be possible, that will set aside the opposition and diversity and become a unique body in relation to the real interests of the country, in this case the small municipalities and administrators, who have long been asking for action on this matter. We gave ourselves a playlist. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we also fired constitutional legislation and did so as a result of restricted committees. I want to thank the rapporteur, but also the representative of the Government, who - almost anomalous thing - participated in the restricted committees, bringing comfort to the voice of the Government and allowing us to do a comprehensive and complete job. We promised to deal with other issues. It is the policy of small steps, of those that serve. Today we have incardinated the bill Lanzi, which wants to stabilize a rule that had already been approved for the immediate elections following the Covid-19. Forza Italia has asked to schedule another initiative, which allows parties who respond administratively to the failure to publish the criminal certificates of candidates to be able to request them, which they cannot do now. We have therefore tabled a bill, which we have also shared with the various groups, to allow the parties, only for the local elections, to acquire the criminal certificates. This is the way to do politics: let us leave aside the great issues that can separate us. This is a majority of public health, in the interest of the country; then we really do the country's interest, which consists not only in getting it out of the tunnel of the economic and health crisis, but also in addressing the daily problems that arise to citizens, administrators and mayors. This seems to me to be a correct way of working, which makes us feel that our mission is being carried out in full. When we return to our territories, looking in the mirror, we can say: we have helped to improve a certain situation. We have done so on this occasion; the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done so before, with other measures, and is preparing to do so for others. If this is the philosophy that the whole of Parliament will take as a point of reference, I believe that at the end of this parliamentary term - whatever the time of its cessation - we will have done a great deal of work in the interest of the country with the method of ants. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u164	ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the speaker is not a senator, but a mayor. With this simple but significant bill n. 1196, of initiative of Senator Augussori, belonging to the League, we are preparing to vote on a measure of simplification and protection of the local communities. With the measures contained in the two articles, already outlined by the rapporteur, Mrs Pirovano, we will avoid the Commissariat, especially in small municipalities. In Italy there are municipalities that are dissolved for mafia infiltrations, but also others that are commissionered by a prefectial commissioner due to problems related to the collection of signatures for the presentations of the lists or the participation in the vote. The Commissioner, who is certainly not a bad person, goes to administer a community, especially if it is small, dealing with merely formal and routine acts. Nothing new is being done and no new proposals are being made. For a community to have a prefectial commissioner is a cancellation, not - I repeat - because of its inability, but because there is nothing new. Sometimes, when only one list appears in the municipalities, the old opponents in the City Council who no longer collect consent make war on the candidate mayor and the single list by discouraging people to go to vote. This is a huge mistake. Whoever is the candidate, whatever political current (from right to left), if there is only one list, it is right that that candidate and that administration should be voted on. Those who discourage people from voting are guilty of a huge mistake. I am mayor of a small municipality of almost 1,080 inhabitants and so there are many in Italy, from North to South. I have now had the good fortune and the honour of being elected to Parliament, but there are heroes in the daily newspaper - in this context we talk about it - mayors. I am referring to those mayors who may also be responsible for the technical office and have enormous responsibilities, which are not comparable to those I currently have as a Member of Parliament. [[Applause]] They are mayors who daily bring the elderly, with the car of social services, in the CEOD, in support centers and hospitals and who make children cross the streets in front of the schools. They are handyman mayors who shovel the snow, cut the grass and do many other things of ordinary administration that, at higher levels of politics, even for a matter of time, are not done. They're people who love their community. The League is close to the mayors. Long live the mayors of Italy and especially those of the small municipalities. I would like to thank the Commission for its work on this measure and, as my colleague Mr Augussori has already said, also the ANCI for its proximity and, above all, the National Association of Small Municipalities of Italy, chaired by Franca Biglio. This is not the case here (or it is done, but many people do not know the issue well), but in Italy it sometimes happens what happened recently also in my Verona (we talk about an article of May 13, 2018). On the occasion of the local elections there are civil servants, in particular police forces, who, since the law permits it, present an alternative list to that of the mayor in order to have a temporary expectation for the election campaign. I refer to the article: passion for public administration, for politics, the desire to detach from daily work for a period (otherly paid), or is it just a coincidence that there are about forty civil servants candidates for municipal elections on 10 June? They are all small municipalities, where it is not necessary to collect signatures to submit a list. In our case we are talking about San Mauro di Saline and Borgofranco sul Po, in the province of Mantua. It has aroused curiosity in the mantovano the fact that in one list out of three there are many candidates resident in other municipalities, even in countries of Southern Italy. In addition, the candidates on this list were born in various provinces of our country. The same happened for another list in San Mauro di Saline, in the province of Verona. That of electoral expectations is a phenomenon born about ten years ago, but that has gone away growing up to take on considerable proportions. This is one of the cases that explains why the measure under consideration is very positive, especially for Italian residents abroad, descendants of migrants in the nineteenth century (the Veneto has made a strong contribution to emigration during that period). In this way we guarantee security, because in the collection of signatures there will no longer be a need to reach a certain number and neither will the votes of Italians living abroad be necessary. In my political group, which I know very well, we have done the right thing by chewing bread, territory and local administrations. This is our story. In our curriculum we boast a path that starts right from the municipalities, the foundations of Italian politics. That is why, when my colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs address you, ladies and gentlemen, they speak with knowledge of the virtues of the administrations, especially the small ones. Most of the political groups in Parliament have a curriculum, because they have local administrators and mayors, but someone does not have a history based on municipalities, mayors and, not knowing the problems of small communities, sometimes gets stagnated, as happened even recently by shaking the portfolio here in Parliament. They should know more about the history of municipalities. I thank all my colleagues, the Government, the rapporteur and the restricted committee. Surely this is a positive measure for our Italian municipalities. Long live the mayors and of course vote favorable of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u167	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, senators and fellow senators, we are about to vote on a measure that brings important improvements in terms of municipal elections. Over the years, problems have arisen in this area which the legislator has decided to resolve through the measure under consideration. The first problem was the very validity of the elections. The current rule provided that if a single list had been accepted in the municipal elections, the consultation would only be valid if the number of voters was not less than 50% of the voters registered on the municipal electoral lists. The rule in question has generated several complications, particularly in smaller municipalities, which are massively affected by phenomena of mass emigration. It is known, in fact, that those who have moved abroad remain registered on the electoral lists of the City of last residence. Such voters far from Italy, who often do not know the situations of their country of origin, although they are not, as said, registered on the electoral lists, generally do not exercise the vote and can make the quorum of validity of the consultation lacking. The question of the calculation of the electorate who emigrated abroad, in the case of votes for which a structural quorum is envisaged, is not, in fact, new: on the occasion of the 2000 referendum vote on Title V, the problem of some hundreds of thousands of citizens who moved abroad, although they were registered, had been irrecoverable for years and thus contributed in fact to raising the quorum of validity of the referendum. Also during the referendum on medically assisted procreation in 2005, the promoters unnecessarily pointed out the serious discrepancies between the number of Italians resident abroad who are entitled to vote for the calculation of the structural quorum and the number of those who were actually available. To this end, the rule approved in the Commission provides for the exclusion of voters registered with AIRE who have not voted. The election, where only one list has been accepted, shall be valid provided that it has recorded a number of valid votes of less than 50% and that the number of voters has not been less than 40% of the voters registered on the electoral roll. It should be remembered that it remains guaranteed to the citizen residing abroad who presents himself on the day of the municipal elections in the electoral section assigned to him, the right to exercise freely his electoral right. So there is no violation of the equality of voting or any foreclosure for our fellow citizens abroad. The second intervention is to affect, instead, the number of subscriptions required for the presentation of the lists of candidates to the City Council and the related nominations to the office of mayor. The text approved in the Commission is the result of a comparison between the political forces that has allowed an effective synthesis between the need to compare the number of subscriptions to that of the inhabitants in order not to penalise the smaller municipalities and that, at the same time, to discourage the presentation of lists totally disconnected from the territory. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that with this measure we can promote a system of local authorities that takes account of the modernity and needs of the territory, a system that looks to the future. And by the future I mean more synergies between smaller municipalities to deal with similar difficulties, so more mergers to improve citizenship services. This measure can also be a step in this direction. In conclusion, I announce the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u168	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1196, as a whole, in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced to the Commission, with the following title: Amendments to the single text of Legislative Decree no. 267 of 18 August 2000, to the single text of the decree of the President of the Republic dated 16 May 1960, No. 570, and to Law No. 81 of 25 March 1993, concerning the calculation of voters for the validity of municipal elections and the number of subscriptions for the submission of candidates for the same elections. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Thus, the draft law No 1382 is absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u169	I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of two Secretary Senators: [[Senators present 236 Senators voting 236]] Senators got votes: [[Margiott 109 Binetti 86 Missing votes 8 Blanket cards 20 None cards 13]] I proclaim elected Secretaries the Senators Salvatore Margiotta and Paola Binetti, to whom I address my personal congratulations and of the whole Assembly and wish you good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u170	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-331.ana.u171	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 27 May, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.31 a.m.
